 
 
    
               EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY DEVELOPMENT CODE 
              TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 
 
Chapter 1  Rural Agriculture Protection Program 
 
   11-1-1: Statement of Purpose 
11-1-2: Rural Agriculture Protection 
11-1-3: Agriculture Protection Area 
11-1-4: Agriculture Preservation Incentive 
11-1-5: Community Preservation Incentive 
11-1-6: Preserving and Promoting Business Enterprises 
11-1-7: Expectations for Public Infrastructure and Services 
 
 
Chapter 2  Development Evaluation Standards 
 
11-2-1: Purpose 
11-2-2: Agriculture  
11-2-3: Water and Sewage  
11-2-4: Natural Resources 
11-2-5: County Infrastructure, Facilities and Services 
11-2-6: Infrastructure Design and Maintenance 
 
 
Chapter 3  Zoning Districts and Requirements 
 
11-3-1: Establishment of Zone Districts 
11-3-2: Agriculture Protection (AP) 
11-3-3: Agriculture-Grazing 100 (AG-100) 
11-3-4: Agriculture-Grazing 160 (AG-160) 
11-3-5: Highway Corridor (HC) 
11-3-6: Cabin Area (CA) 
11-3-7  Commercial (C)  
11-3-8  Light Industrial 
11-3-9: Industrial (I)  
11-3-10: Specially Planned Area (SPA) 
11-3-11: Annexation Declaration Area Overlay (ADA) 
11-3-12: Zone District Map 
11-3-13: Allowed, Conditional, Low Impact and Temporary  
  Uses  
11-3-13: Chart of Allowed and Permitted Uses 
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents 
 
Chapter 4  Development Review Processes and Procedures 
 
11-4-1: Purpose 
11-4-2: Lot of Record 
11-4-3: Legally Created Lot 
11-4-4: Divisions of Agricultural Lands 
11-4-5: Non-Agricultural Development of Lands Divided 
  For Agricultural Purposes 
11-4-6: Permits Required 
11-4-7: General Provisions 
11-4-8: Minor Subdivision of Property Review 
11-4-9: Cluster Bonus/Agricultural Preservation Subdivision  
  Review 
11-4-10: Major Development Review Process 
11-4-11: Final Site Plan Review 
11-4-12: Conditional Use Review 
11-4-13: Temporary Use Review 
11-4-14: Zoning Variances 
11-4-15: Special Exceptions 
11-4-16: Low Impact Permit Review  
11-4-17: Lot Line Adjustments 
11-4-18: Amendments to Recorded Subdivision Plats 
11-4-19: Condominium Plats 
 
 
Chapter 5  Amendments to Code and Zone District Map 
 
11-5-1: Authority 
11-5-2: Initiation of Amendments 
11-5-3: Amendment Procedures 
 
 
Chapter 6  General Regulations 
 
11-6-1: Public Hearing Requirements   
11-6-2: Nonconforming Uses, Structures and Lots  
11-6-3: Home Occupations 
11-6-4: Signs 
11-6-5: Accessory Dwelling Units 
11-6-6: Equipment Enclosures, Utility Structures and Related  
  Facilities 
11-6-7: Wireless Communications 
11-6-8: Infrastructure Standards  
 
11-6-9: Development Agreements 
Table of Contents 
 
 
11-6-10: Re-application Following Denial 
11-6-11: Revocation of Approvals and/or Permits 
11-6-12: Failure to Comply with Conditions 
11-6-13: Effective Period of Approvals 
11-6-14: Completion of Improvements 
11-6-15: Construction Plans 
11-6-16: Issuance of Building Permits 
11-6-17: Project Closure Due to Inaction 
11-6-18: Residential Care Facilities for Elderly or Disabled 
 
 
Chapter 7  General Provisions 
  
11-7-1: Short Title 
11-7-2: Statement of Purpose 
11-7-3: Applicability 
11-7-4: Development Review Fees 
11-7-5: Planning Commission 
11-7-6: Joint Planning 
11-7-7: Board of Adjustment 
11-7-8: Conflict 
11-7-9: Effect on Previous Ordinances 
11-7-10: Penalty 
11-7-11: Interpretation 
11-7-12: Severability 
11-7-13: Vested Rights Determination 
11-7-14: Enforcement 
11-7-15: Violations and Penalties 
11-7-16: Remedies 
11-7-17: Appeal Procedures 
 
 
Appendix A  Definitions  
 
 
Appendix B  Adult/Sex-Oriented Facilities and Businesses 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ordinance Reference List 
 
Title 11 
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY DEVELOPMENT CODE 
AMENDMENTS 
 
 
 
Ordinance No.  278    Eastern Summit County Development Code  
Adopted by the Summit County   and Zoning Map 
Board of Commissioners:  May 6, 1996 
Effective:  06/06/96 
 
 
Amendments: 
 
Ordinance No. 305    SPA Zone Districts and Development  
Adopted:   02/24/97    Agreements 
Effective:  02/24/97 
 
Ordinance No. 307    Water Requirements for Minor Subdivision 
Adopted:   03/24/97    Approval 
 
Ordinance No. 311 Parcels Divided Cumulatively up to Allowable  
Adopted:   04/28/97    Density 
 
Ordinance No. 324    Sexually Oriented Businesses 
Adopted:   03/09/98 
Effective:  03/09/98   
 
Ordinance No. 365 Section 3.120 Revisions to Chart of Allowed and  
Adopted:   09/13/99  Conditional Uses 
Effective:  09/13/99  Section 6.55  Storage Sheds/Commercial   
       Storage/Warehousing  
    Section 6.56  Utility Structures and Related Facilities 
    Section 7.70C  Duties and Powers of Board of   
       Adjustment 
    Appendix A:  Definitions  
 
 
Ordinance No. 417  Section 6.56  Equipment Enclosures, Utility Structures 
Adopted:  07/05/01     and Related Facilities 
Effective:  07/14/01  Section 657  Wireless Communications 
    Appendix A:  Definitions 
     
 
 
Ordinance Reference List 
 
 
Ordinance No. 470  Section 3.20  Agriculture Protection (AP)   
Adopted:   11/19/03  Section 3.30  Agricultural-Grazing 100 (AG-100) 
Effective:  05/07/04  Section 3.40  Agricultural-Grazing 16 (AG-160)   
Section 3.50  Highway Corridor (HC) 
    Section 3.120  Chart of Allowed Uses 
    Section 4.70  Temporary Use Review 
    Section 5.20  Initiation of Amendments 
    Section 6.20  Non-Conforming Uses, Structures, Lots 
Section 6.50  Accessory Dwelling Units 
    Section 7.70   Board of Adjustment 
    Section 7.110  Interpretation 
    Section 7.150 Appeal Procedures 
    Appendix A:  Definitions:  Open Recreation Use,  
 Temporary Use 
 
Ordinance No. 481  Chapter 4.20   Minor Subdivision Process 
Adopted:   03/01/04  Chapter 4.30  Cluster Bonus/Ag. Preservation 
Subdivision 
Effective:  03/01/04  Chapter 3.50   Highway Corridor Zone Changes   
 
Ordinance No. 553  Chapter 3:  11-3-6:   Commercial Zone 
Adopted:   06/08/05  Chapter 3:  11-3-7:  Industrial Zone 
Effective:  06/17/05  Chapter 3:  11-3-8: Railroad Industrial Zone   
    Chapter 3:  11-3-10: Chart of Allowed and Conditional Uses 
    Chapter 6:  11-6-2:   Non-Conforming Uses, Structures, Lots 
    Appendix A:  Definitions:  Commercial, Industrial Use 
    Eastern Summit County Zone Map 
 
 
Ordinance No. 569  Chapter 2:  11-2-2:  Agriculture Livestock Fencing Provisions 
Adopted:   08/17/05  Chapter 4:  11-4-8:   Low Impact Permit Approval Process 
Effective:  08/26/05   
     
Ordinance No. 641  Chapter 2:  11-2-3E:   Adequate Water Standards 
Adopted:   08/16/06  Chapter 6:  11-6-9A:   Fire Protection Standards 
Effective:  09/11/06   
  
Ordinance No. 649  Chapter 3:  11-3-13:  Institutional, Houses of Worship and 
Adopted:   09/20/06       Utility Tower Uses 
Effective:  10/06/06  Chapter 6:  11-6-1B:  Public Hearing Requirements 
 
 
 
 
 
Ordinance Reference List 
  
 
    Appendix A:   Definitions:  Height, Houses of   
       Worship, Institutional Uses, Utility  
       Tower 
 
 
Ordinance No. 666  Chapter 3:  Zoning Districts – Height, Setbacks, 
Adopted:   01/10/07     Wetlands 
Effective:  01/19/07  Chapter 4:  11-4-9: Subdivision Plat Amendments 
    Chapter 6:  11-6-9: Wildland Fire Urban Interface Code  
       Reference, Irrigation Ditch Easements 
    Chapter 6:  11-6-16:  Project Termination Due to Inaction 
    Chapter 6:  11-6-17:  Residential Care Facilities 
    Appendix A:  Definitions:  Residential Care Facilities 
 
Ordinance No. 677  Chapter 3:  11-3-13: Chart of Allowed and Conditional Uses 
Adopted:   08/29/07  Chapter 6:  11-6-2: Non-conforming Uses, Structures and 
Effective:  09/05/07      Lots 
    Chapter 6:  11-6-6: Reference Correction – Storage Sheds, 
       Commercial Storage and Warehousing 
    Chapter 6:  11-6-9: Language Correction – Addition of  
       “2006 Utah” to Wildland Urban Interface  
       Code 
    Chapter 7:  11-7-5: Planning Commission Duties and  
       Powers 
    Appendix A:  Definitions:  Ordinary High Water Mark,  
       Wetland, Kennels, Indoor Riding   
       Arenas; Clarification of Existing   
       Definitions: Major Subdivision, Minor  
       Subdivision and Open Space/Lands 
 
Ordinance No. 704  Chapter 3:  11-3-6: Deleted LIP Section in reference to  
Adopted:   07/30/08     Commercial Uses as it exists in  
Effective:  08/24/08     Chapter 4; Added “Additional   
       Reference” Column to Chart of Allowed  
       and Conditional Uses; Added “Rock  
       Quarries, Gravel Pits, and Associated  
       Surface Mining Uses” to Use Chart; 
    Chapter 4:  11-4-6: Added Three (3) New Sections to  
       Conditional Use Permit Procedure -  
       “Mandatory Review Process,”   
       Establishment of a Conditional Use  
       Permit,” and “Amendments to   
       Conditional Use Permits;” Added New  
       Sections – Final Site Plan, Lot Line  
 
 
Ordinance Reference List 
 
 
       Adjustments and Condominium Plats;  
       Amended BOA Criteria for Variance  
       Approval - Consistent with Utah State  
       Code. 
    Chapter 6:  11-6-7: Clarification for Wireless    
       Communication Facilities Requirements  
       and Process 
    Chapter 6:  11-6-15:  Policy Amendment for Denial of Files 
    Chapter 7:  11-7-15:  Amended Appeals Chart for Plat   
        Amendments  
     
    Appendix A:  Added Definition for “Condominium” 
 
Ordinance No. 708  Entire Code  Form of Government Change from  
Adopted:  12/10/08     Board of County Commissioners to 
Effective:  01/01/09     County Manager and County Council 
 
Ordinance No. 723  Chapter 4:  11-4-9: Added a Special Exception process to 
Adopted:  07/22/09     the Code. 
Effective:  08/13/09  Chapter 6:  11-6-2: Deleted language allowing expansions  
       of non-conforming uses and structures.  
 
Ordinance No. 726  Chapter 4:  11-4-2: Minor Subdivision Exemption for 100 
Adopted:  09/30/09     Acre Agricultural Parcels 
Effective:  09/30/09  
 
Ordinance No. 724  Appendix A:  R.V. (Recreational Vehicle) and  
Adopted:  10/21/09     Manufactured Home Definitions 
Effective:  11/21/09 
 
Ordinance No. 730  Chapter 4:  11-4-4: Removed reference to school capacity. 
Adopted:  12/02/09  Chapter 4:  11-4-9: Special Exceptions:  removed the  
Effective:  12/27/09     Appeal Language. 
    Chapter 6:  11-6-4: Added regulations for campaign signs. 
    Chapter 7:  11-7-15: Reformatted the Appeals Chart. 
    Appendix A:  Amended the definition of “setback.” 
 
Ordinance No. 737  Chapter 6: 11-6-11:  Added Revocation of Approvals and/or 
Adopted:  04/14/10     Permits section. 
Effective:  05/08/10  Chapter 6: 11-6-14D: Added Development Permit   
       Extension process. 
    Chapter 6:  11-6-15: Added Construction Plans section.      
  
 
     
Ordinance Reference List 
 
 
    Chapter 7:  11-7-14: Added Enforcement section. 
    Chapter 7:  11-7-15: Added Violations and Penalties section. 
 
Ordinance No. 744  Chapter 4:  11-4-2: Added “Permits Required.”  
Adopted:  07/14/10  Chapter 4:  11-4-3: Added “General Provisions.” 
Effective:  08/08/10           11-4-14: Amended the process for amending a  
       private road vs. a public road.  Added  
       additional public hearing requirements. 
    Chapter 7:  11-7-7: Clarified the roles and responsibilities of  
       the BOA. 
 
Ordinance No. 746  Chapter 3:  11-3-13: Deleted “private kennels” from the Use 
Adopted:  10/06/10     Chart. 
Effective:  10/24/10  Appendix A:  Deleted “private” from the definition of  
       kennel. 
 
Ordinance No. 751  Chapter 6:  11-6-8: Amended “Infrastructure Standards.” 
Adopted:  01/12/11 
Effective:  02/03/11 
 
Ordinance No. 755  Chapter 3:  11-3-13:  Removed “private” kennels. 
Adopted:  06/15/11 
Effective:  07/07/11 
 
Ordinance No. 759  Chapter 6:  11-6-2: Modified language to allow some 
Adopted:  06/29/11              expansion of Non-Conforming Uses,  
Effective:  07/21/11     Structures and Lots. 
 
Ordinance No. 766  Chapter 6:  11-6-16: Added Site Plan Requirements.                                                                                                          
Adopted:  09/14/11 
Effective:  10/02/11  
 
Ordinance No. 768  Chapter 4:  11-4-2: Added “Lot of Record.” 
Adopted:  03/14/12           11-4-3: Added “Legally Created Lot.” 
Effective:  04/08/12           11-4-4:  Added Divisions of Agricultural Lands.” 
             11-4-5:  Added Non-Agricultural Development of 
       Lands Divided for Agricultural Purposes. 
 
    Appendix A:   Definitions:  Lot; Lot, Legally Created; 
       Lot, Lot of Record.  
 
 
 
 
Ordinance Reference List 
 
  
  
 
Ordinance # 774, 775, 776 
Adopted 07/18/12 
Effective 08/15/12 
 
Chapter 3: 11-3:     Added “Cabin Zone” and “Light 
Industrial”; Amended Use Chart, and 
Appendixes A and B; and Deleted 
the Railroad Industrial” Zone 
 
 
Ordinance #784 
Adopted 10/24/12 
Effective 11/04/12 
Zone Map:             Rezone Parcels NS-530-2, NS-528-
B, NS-567-B , NS-527-A, NS-528-C, 
527-B, NS-557, NS-541-2, and NS-
54l-C-1 to  “Light Industrial”  Zone.  
  
Ordinance #785 
Adopted 10/24/12 
Effective 10/04/12 
Zone Map:             Rezone The Utelite Echo Location at       
(approx.) 3550 South Echo Road to 
the “Light Industrial” Zone  
                                 
  
  
 
 
             
   
 
     
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
11-1-1 
 
TITLE 11  
EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY DEVELOPMENT CODE  
CHAPTER 1  
RURAL AGRICULTURE PROTECTION PROGRAM  
 
SECTION: 
 
11-1-1: Statement of Purpose 
11-1-2: Rural Agriculture Protection 
11-1-3: Agriculture Protection Area 
11-1-4: Agriculture Preservation Incentive 
11-1-5: Community Preservation Incentive 
11-1-6: Preserving and Promoting Business Enterprises 
11-1-7: Expectations for Public Infrastructure and Services 
11-1-1:   STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:  
The Eastern Summit County General Plan (hereafter referred to as "the General Plan"), 
was developed to ensure that the rural, agricultural and small town character of the 
eastern portion of the county shall remain, even in the presence of growth and change. 
The intention of the county is to assure the managed, proper and sensitive development 
of land to protect and enhance these desired qualities and the lifestyle that exists. In 
adopting the Eastern Summit County Development Code (hereafter referred to as "the 
Code" or "this Title"), the county will fully exercise all of the powers granted to it by Utah 
Code Annotated title 17, to require, to the extent possible and practical, that all 
development and change within Eastern Summit County will occur in a manner that is 
consistent with the goals and expectations of the residents.  In order to accomplish the 
stated purpose, this Title will:  
A. Protect the right to farm in Eastern Summit County and promote and 
encourage the preservation of agricultural lands, operations and open 
space;  
B. Establish incentives for preserving active agriculture lands and 
operations;  
C.  Allow simple procedures for landowners to undertake minor subdivisions 
of property to increase opportunities for residents and local workers to  
 
 
 
11-1-1 
11-1-2 
 live in Eastern Summit County;  
D. Protect existing businesses that are important to the Eastern Summit County 
 economy from the encroachment of new residential development;             
E. Allow appropriate flexibility with regard to the location of land uses and other 
zoning matters, so long as the resulting use of the land is compatible with its 
surroundings and furthers the goals and objectives of the General Plan; 
F.   Ensure that new development is undertaken in a manner that is sensitive to 
the rural, agricultural and small town character, and make every effort to 
ensure that new development will not bring about change that is inconsistent 
with the underlying community values and resources;  
G. Prevent or minimize development when it will significantly increase potential 
dangers to life and safety of existing and future residents and emergency service 
personnel;  
H.   Require a common sense approach to development and ensure that people 
choosing to locate in remote areas of the county recognize and accept the 
possible consequences of their actions;  
I.   Preserve the natural resources of Eastern Summit County; 
J.  Ensure that development is compatible with wildlife habitats and environmentally 
sensitive areas;  
K.   Ensure that the county and incorporated municipalities cooperate in guiding 
development near the boundaries of each municipality; and  
L.   Protect private property rights. (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-1-2:   RURAL AGRICULTURE PROTECTION:  
Maintaining viable agricultural lands and operations and rural business enterprises is 
crucial to the public health, safety and welfare of Eastern Summit County.  New 
development must assume the responsibility for creating a compatible relationship with 
the normal operations of these activities.  To this end, no subdivision plat shall be 
approved by the county without a plat note containing the language stated below.  No 
building permit shall be issued for any previously platted lot without an acknowledgment 
in writing from the owner (titled "Memorandum of Understanding") containing the 
language stated below.  The executed memorandum of understanding and plat shall be 
filed in the records of the County Recorder to notify any future owner of the lot about the 
presence of agricultural and rural business operations in Eastern Summit County.  It 
shall state:  
 
 
11-1-3 
The owners of property within Eastern Summit County recognize the importance of 
agricultural lands and operations and small rural business enterprises.  It is 
recognized that agricultural lands and operations and rural business enterprises 
have unique operating characteristics that must be respected.  (Owners of each lot 
platted in this subdivision/the owner of the residence constructed upon this lot) 
have/has been given notice and recognizes that there are active agriculture lands 
and operations and rural business enterprises within Eastern Summit County and 
acknowledges and accepts that, so long as such lands and operations exist, there 
may be dust, noise, odor, prolonged work hours, use of roadways for the purposes of 
herding/moving animals, and other attributes associated with normal agricultural 
operations and rural businesses. (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-1-3:   AGRICULTURE PROTECTION AREA:  
The General Plan seeks to ensure that agricultural land uses and operations in Eastern 
Summit County are protected, to the extent possible, from the adverse effects of 
development. It is the intent of the agricultural protection program to: a) provide 
incentives to farmers and ranchers that encourage them to stay on the land; b) augment 
and carry out the state's Agricultural Protection Area provision, established in Utah 
Code Annotated, Section 17-41-101, to maintain agricultural activities that are valuable 
to the state and the county; c) protect farmers and ranchers from nuisance complaints, 
undesirable rezoning, and unreasonably restrictive state and local actions; and, d) 
educate and raise the awareness of developers and new residents that Eastern Summit 
County values, which form the foundation of the General Plan, will be protected from 
any adverse affects of development and help ensure the right to farm in Eastern Summit 
County.  
A.   Agriculture Protection Advisory Board: The County Manager, with the advice and 
consent of the County Council, shall appoint members to an Agriculture 
Protections Area Advisory Board (Advisory Board) in accordance with state law.  
The Advisory Board shall: 
1.   Evaluate each proposal for the creation of an Agriculture Protection Area 
and make a recommendation to the County Council regarding the 
acceptability of the proposal; 
2.  Provide advice to the Planning Commission, County Manager and County 
Council about:  
a.   The desirability of each proposed Agriculture Protection Area 
designation;  
b.  The nature of agricultural production within each proposed 
Agriculture Protection Area;  
c.   The relation of agricultural production within the proposed  
 
 
11-1-3 
 Agriculture Protection Area to the county as a whole;  
d.   The type of agricultural production that should be allowed within 
the Agriculture Protection Area; and  
e.   Measures that can be carried out by the county to encourage and 
promote agricultural production within each Agriculture Protection 
Area and the county as a whole. 
B.  Qualifications: There must be at least five (5) acres of active agriculture 
production within any area to be designated an Agriculture Protection Area in 
order to qualify under this chapter.  
C.   Application Requirements:  The state has established a mechanism for the 
owner of land in agricultural production to file a proposal for the creation of an 
Agricultural Protection Area within the county.  An application for Agriculture 
Protection Area designation shall include the following:  
1.  Identification of the land in agricultural production that the owner wishes 
to become part of an Agriculture Protection Area.  
2.  The tax parcel number of each parcel to be included in the Agriculture 
Protection Area.  
3.   The number of acres for each parcel, as listed on the parcel tax records.  
4.   The name of the owners of each parcel to be included in the Agriculture 
Protection Area.  
5.   A description of any limitations that shall be placed on the types of 
agricultural production that shall occur within the Agriculture Protection 
Area. 
D.    Review Procedures:  
1.  The applicant for an Agriculture Protection Area designation shall 
submit the required information to the Community Development 
Director (hereafter referred to as “CDD”).  
2.   Upon receipt of the application, a notice shall be published in a 
newspaper of general circulation and the applicant shall post the 
notice in at least five (5) public places within, adjacent to, or near the 
proposed Agriculture Protection Area. The notice shall contain:  
a.   A statement that a proposal for the creation of an Agriculture 
Protection Area has been filed with the county.  
b.  A statement that the proposal will be available for public inspection  
 
11-1-3 
 in the Community Development Department.  
c.   A statement that any person affected by the establishment of the 
area may file a written request for modification of the proposal or 
written objections to the proposal with the county within fifteen (15) 
days of the date of the notice.  
d.   A statement that the county will submit the proposal to the Advisory 
Board and the Planning Commission for review and 
recommendations.  
 
e.   A statement that the county will hold a public hearing to discuss and 
hear public comment on:  
(1)   The proposal to create the Agriculture Protection Area;  
(2)   The recommendations of the Advisory Board and Planning 
Commission; and  
(3)   Any requests for modifications of the proposal and 
objections to the proposal.  
f.   Written objections to the proposal shall be submitted to the county 
within fifteen (15) days after the date of the notice.  
3.   After fifteen (15) days from the date of the public notice, the application, 
along with any objections or proposed modifications, shall be referred to 
the Advisory Board and the Planning Commission for review, comments 
and recommendations. 
4.   Within forty-five (45) days after receipt of the application, the Advisory 
Board shall submit a recommendation to the County Council that:  
 a.   Recommends any modifications to the proposal.  
b.   Recommends any limitations on the types of agricultural 
production to be allowed in the Agriculture Protection Area.  
c.   Identifies whether the land is currently being used for agriculture 
production; the viability of the land for agricultural production; the 
extent and nature of existing and proposed farm improvements; 
and anticipated trends in agricultural and technological conditions.  
d.   Evaluates any objections to the proposal.  
 e.   Recommends acceptance, modification or rejection of the  
  proposal.  
 
11-1-3 
 
 5.   Within forty-five (45) days after receipt of the application, the Planning 
Commission shall submit a recommendation to the County Council that:  
a.   Identifies the effect of the proposal on the county planning policies 
and objectives.  
b.   Identifies whether the land is zoned for “agricultural use.”  
c.   Analyzes and evaluates any objections to the proposal.  
d.  Recommends acceptance, modification or rejection of the 
proposal; and  
e.   Recommends any limits on the types of agricultural protection to 
be allowed in the Agriculture Protection Area.  
6.   Failure of the Planning Commission or Advisory Board to submit a 
recommendation within forty five (45) days shall constitute a 
recommendation for approval of the proposal. 
7.   Upon receipt of the Planning Commission and Advisory Board 
recommendations, or after forty-five (45) days has expired, whichever 
comes first, the County Council shall schedule a public hearing. Notice of 
the hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation and 
the applicant shall post the notice in at least five (5) public places within, 
adjacent to, or near the proposed Agriculture Protection Area.  The notice 
shall state:  
a.  The time, date and place of the public hearing.  
b.  A description of the proposed Agriculture Protection Area.  
c.   Any proposed modifications to the Agriculture Protection Area.  
d.   The recommendations of the Planning Commission and Advisory 
Board.  
e.   A statement that interested persons may appear at the public 
hearing and speak in favor or against the proposal, any proposed 
modifications to the proposal or the recommendations of the 
Advisory Board or Planning Commission.  
8.   The County Council, after holding the public hearing, shall make a 
decision regarding the application within one hundred twenty (120) days 
of the date of application. Failure of the County Council to act within one 
hundred twenty (120) days of the date of application shall constitute 
approval of the application.  
 
 
11-1-4 
E.   Notice of Agriculture Protection Areas:  
1.  Upon approval of an application for an Agriculture Protection Area, the 
CDD or designated planning staff member shall file an executed 
document containing a legal description of the Agriculture Protection 
Area in the records of the County Recorder and with the Planning 
Commission.  
2.   Within ten (10) days of recording the executed document, the CDD or 
designated planning staff member shall file a written notification to the 
Commissioner of Agriculture that the Agriculture Protection Area has 
been created. The notification shall include: 
 
a.   The number of landowners within the Agriculture Protection Area; 
and  
 
b.   The total acreage of the area, the date of approval, and the date of 
recording the executed document.  
F.  Adding Land to or Removing Land from Agriculture Protection Area:  
1.   Any owner of land may add land to an existing Agriculture Protection 
Area by filing an application with the county and obtaining the approval of 
the County Council in accordance with the provisions of this section for 
creating an Agriculture Protection Area.  
2.  Any owner of land may remove all or part of the property from the 
Agriculture Protection Area by filing a petition for removal with the 
county. The County Council shall grant approval of the removal, even if 
the remaining Agriculture Protection Area will be less than five (5) acres 
under active agriculture production. Upon removal, a revised legal 
description of the remaining Agriculture Protection Area shall be filed 
with the County Recorder and the Planning Commission.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-
1996)  
11-1-4:   CLUSTER BONUS/AGRICULTURE PRESERVATION  
  INCENTIVE SUBDIVISION:  
The Cluster Bonus/Agriculture Preservation Incentive Subdivision is hereby created to 
promote the retention of agricultural land and operations in Eastern Summit County.  It 
is specifically intended to assist those actively engaged in farming and ranching and to 
increase opportunities for residents and local workers to live in Eastern Summit County.  
A density bonus shall be awarded to property owners within the Agriculture Protection 
(AP) zone district only if it results in the preservation of actively used agricultural lands.  
The Cluster Bonus/Agricultural Preservation Subdivision shall be applicable for legally  
 
 
11-1-5 
11-1-6 
created lots/parcels in the AP zone district, which constitute the heaviest concentration 
of agricultural enterprises and is located within the primary county infrastructure and 
service area.  Chapter 4 of this Title defines the procedures related to the Cluster 
Bonus/Agriculture Preservation Subdivision. (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-1-5:   COMMUNITY PRESERVATION INCENTIVE:  
The minor subdivision of property and Cluster Bonus Minor Subdivision provisions are 
hereby created with the intent of increasing opportunities for residents and local 
workers to afford a place to live in Eastern Summit County.  The minor subdivision of 
property and the Cluster Bonus Minor Subdivision provisions shall be applicable only in 
the AP and HC zone districts, which constitute the areas where the county's primary 
infrastructure and services are located.  These provisions shall apply to any legally 
created lot/parcel.  Chapter 4 of this Title defines the procedures related to the minor 
subdivision of property and Cluster Bonus Minor Subdivision provisions.  (Ord. 278, 5-
6-1996)  
11-1-6:   PRESERVING AND PROMOTING BUSINESS   
  ENTERPRISES:  
A.   Existing Enterprises:  There are many viable rural business enterprises in 
Eastern Summit County that are being encroached upon by new residential 
development. These business operations remain viable; some need to expand. 
These operations require protection from the effects of new residential 
development, in much the same way as agricultural lands and operations.  
Business enterprises that existed on the effective date hereof, so long as they 
were lawfully established under previous zoning regulations, shall hereunder be 
considered a “permitted use”  within the zone district that they are located.  
B.   Expansion of Existing Enterprises:  The expansion of lawfully established 
business enterprises shall require a “Conditional Use” approval, as described in 
Section 11-4-5 of this Title.  The intent of the Conditional Use approval shall be to 
ensure compatibility with surrounding uses to the extent practical and 
reasonable.  They shall be allowed to undertake appropriate expansion when 
they reasonably mitigate potential impacts on nearby residential land uses.  
Provisions for mitigation are described in Chapter 2 of this Title.    
C. Promoting New Enterprises:  New business enterprises, and jobs within the tax 
base that will result, are crucial to the future of Eastern Summit County.  It is 
difficult to identify locations for such activities without a specific proposal to 
consider. Therefore, a procedure has been incorporated in this title that allows 
the county the flexibility to consider these uses in the future.  The specially 
planned area offers business operators, who desire to locate in Eastern Summit 
County, the opportunity to work with the Planning Commission and County  
 
 
11-1-7 
 Council to foster any business that promotes the goals and objectives of the 
General Plan and is compatible with its surroundings. (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-1-7:  EXPECTATIONS FOR PUBLIC INFRASTRUCTURE AND  
  SERVICES:  
A.   Memorandum of Understanding Required:  Although the county endeavors to 
provide reasonable and appropriate infrastructure and services which adequately 
serve allowed land uses in Eastern Summit County, certain new 
buildings/structures and developments, because of location, will not be easily 
served by the county or special districts.  If a person chooses to construct a new 
residential or commercial structure, or obtain development approval in areas 
removed from the county’s primary infrastructure and service area, the 
developer/owner shall acknowledge in writing (titled “Memorandum of 
Understanding”) at the time of development approval, or in the instance of a 
previously platted lot at the time of building permit issuance for a new structure, 
the following:  
The property owner acknowledges that he/she is building in a location that 
is far removed from the primary Summit County service areas.  As such, 
the property owner is on notice that there is limited access, infrastructure 
and public services in the area.  Some services, which include, but are not 
limited to, garbage pick up and school bus service, will not be provided.  
Emergency response time will be longer than it is in more accessible 
areas, and access by emergency vehicles may be impossible at times due 
to snow and road conditions.  The owner understands and acknowledges 
that there may be infrastructure in these remote locations that does not 
meet adopted county infrastructure standards.  It is the intent of Summit 
County to attempt to continue to provide the existing variety, scale and 
frequency of public services and infrastructure for all existing and new 
development in these remote areas of Eastern Summit County.  It is not 
the intent of Summit County to increase the variety, scale and frequency 
of public services and infrastructure or to provide urban levels of service 
and infrastructure in these areas.  By this notice, the property owner 
assumes the risks of occupancy as outlined above, and is hereby put on 
notice that there are no anticipated changes in the levels of services or 
infrastructure by either Summit County or the appropriate special service 
district, nor does the property owner expect changes beyond those 
identified herein.  
 
B.   Recording: This acknowledgment shall be deemed to run with the land and, as 
such, shall be recorded at the developer/owner’s expense in the records of the 
County Recorder to provide notice to future property owners regarding service 
level expectations.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
      11-2-1  
11-2-2  
 
CHAPTER 2 
DEVELOPMENT EVALUATION STANDARDS 
 
SECTION: 
 
11-2-1: Purpose 
11-2-2: Agriculture  
11-2-3: Water and Sewage  
11-2-4: Natural Resources 
11-2-5: County Infrastructure, Facilities and Services 
11-2-6: Infrastructure Design and Maintenance 
 
11-2-1:  PURPOSE:  
A.   Purpose:  The purpose of this chapter is to establish a set of development 
guidelines applicable to any development within Eastern Summit County.  These 
guidelines are necessary and desirable in order to: a) protect the county's rural, 
agricultural, small town character and lifestyle; b) protect the natural resources 
and ecologically and environmentally sensitive areas of Eastern Summit County; 
and, c) facilitate the efficient use of the land in relation to the county's ability to 
ensure the availability of adequate services and infrastructure.  
B.   Standards; Compliance:  The following standards shall be applied to the review of 
any development application submitted in accordance with the provisions of this 
title. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent the county from 
allowing an applicant to propose and agree to implement acceptable and suitable 
solutions to such impacts which otherwise result in a finding of noncompliance 
with these standards.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-2-2:  AGRICULTURE:    
 
A. Plat Notes and Memorandums:  Non-agricultural development shall not be 
approved without appropriate plat notes and memorandums of understanding, as 
described in the Code, that educate new residents of the presence of agriculture 
operations in Eastern Summit County and protect the rights of farmers and 
ranchers to actively conduct normal operations associated with the farm or ranch. 
 
B.   Minimization of Complaints: Non-agricultural development shall not be approved 
in an agricultural area without appropriate efforts from the developer to minimize 
potential complaints from future residents of the development regarding noise,  
 
 
 11-2-2 
 
 odor, length of work hours, and the normal characteristics of the agricultural 
operation.
 
C. Livestock Fencing: New, non-agricultural development immediately adjacent to 
an existing agricultural operation (defined by this Code as agriculture) shall not 
be approved unless the developer and/or subsequent owners of property within 
the development assume the responsibility for fencing or paying one-half of the 
cost thereof for fencing out livestock in accordance with the Utah Code.  All major 
developments, including residential subdivisions, commercial and industrial 
operations and other projects that border agriculture lands shall be subject to the 
following fencing considerations: 
 
1.  At the discretion of the adjoining agricultural land owner, the 
developer may be required to pay for one-half of the cost, 
including labor and materials for a fence if:  
 
a.    the fence is or becomes a partition fence separating the 
project site from the adjoining agricultural land owners 
property; 
 
b.    the cost of the fence is reasonable for the type of fence 
commonly found in that particular area. 
 
2. Notwithstanding the above fencing requirement, the developer 
may, at his or her own discretion, cost and expense, construct a 
perimeter fence to enclose the development. 
 
3.   In project areas including wildlife migration corridors or critical 
wildlife habitat, as determined by the State Division of Wildlife 
Resources (DWR), wildlife friendly fencing may be considered 
with the following recommended design standards: 
 
 a.    Total fence height should not exceed forty two (42) inches. 
 
b.   The space between the two top wires (of a wire fence) should be at 
least twelve (12) inches apart with the top wire preferable being a 
smooth wire without barbs. 
  
c.    The bottom wire should be at least thirteen (13) inches 
from the ground and smooth. 
 
D.   Preservation of Agricultural Land:  New non-agricultural development within 
Eastern Summit County shall preserve productive agricultural land to the extent 
possible and practical. 
 
 
 
 
11-2-3 
 
E.   Irrigation Patterns and Systems:  Non-agricultural development shall preserve the 
integrity of existing irrigation patterns and systems. Surface irrigation ditches 
shall be mapped and easements of record created.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996) 
          
11-2-3:   WATER AND SEWAGE:   
A.  Memorandum of Decision Required:  New residential, commercial and industrial 
development shall not be approved in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 
4 of this Title, nor shall a building permit be issued on a previously platted lot, 
without evidence of a memorandum of decision from the state engineer 
demonstrating that water of adequate quantity is available on the site and that 
water on the site can be used by the applicant to serve the proposed uses/lots, or 
a commitment from a municipality or private service company to provide water of 
adequate quantity and quality to serve the proposed use/lot.  However, lots within 
all minor subdivisions shall not be required to have a memorandum of decision 
from the state engineer nor commitment from a municipality or private service 
company for each lot.  The applicant shall submit documentation indicating what 
type of water system shall be utilized within the minor subdivision, i.e., private 
wells, municipality or private service company.  A note shall be included on the 
subdivision plat that indicates:  
It shall be the responsibility of each lot owner to demonstrate that water of 
adequate quantity is available for each lot prior to the issuance of a 
building permit. This shall be accomplished with a memorandum of 
decision from the state engineer for a private well or a written commitment 
from a municipality or private service company.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996; amd. 
Ord. 307, 3-24-1997)  
B. Capacity and Capability:  No new development or building permit for a previously 
platted lot, for which water and/or sewer service will be provided by a private 
service provider, will be approved until the service provider has submitted 
documentation demonstrating that it has the capacity and capability to serve the 
development/lot and that it is committed to providing the service. 
C. Sewage Collection:  New residential, commercial and industrial development 
shall not be approved in the vicinity of existing well and spring protection zones, 
which are used for domestic consumption purposes, without a contained sewage 
collection and disposal system.  The impact on protection zones shall be 
determined based on distance, soil conditions, slope and drainage patterns, or in 
compliance with state law.  Individual septic disposal systems will not be allowed 
when these zones can be impacted.  
D. Sewage Treatment:  No development shall be approved without suitable sewage 
treatment capacity point of discharge, and dependability for the specific use 
proposed.  
E.  Adequate Water (Amended/Adopted 08/16/06):  No subdivision, low impact use,  
 
 
11-2-3 
 conditional use or commercial or industrial development shall be approved 
without adequate water quantity, quality, pressure and dependability to support 
the use intended and to provide for protection from fire. 
1. Applicability: With the exception of minor subdivisions and low impact 
uses, the standards for adequate water to serve a project shall be satisfied 
prior to the approval of a final subdivision plat or final site plan for the 
proposed development.  
Water standards for Cluster Bonus/Agricultural Preservation Minor 
Subdivisions of three or more lots shall be satisfied prior to the recordation 
of the final plat.  Water standards for minor subdivisions of one to two lots 
and low impact uses shall be satisfied prior to the issuance of a building 
permit.   
2.   Water Systems:  If a water system serving a development has fewer than 
15 connections, then the Summit County Public Health Department 
Regulations for the Installation and Approval of Non-public Water Systems 
shall apply.  For systems serving 15 or more connections, the applicant 
must furnish a letter from the Utah State Department of Environmental 
Quality, Division of Drinking Water, that the water system meets all current 
Utah State Standards and that no unresolved notices of violation or non-
compliance are outstanding.  
3.   Standards:  All development, utilizing either public or private water 
systems, including commercial and industrial uses, shall be subject to the 
following water requirements:   
a.  Quantity:  Water quantity includes paper water rights (i.e. the legal 
right to divert the water) and wet water (i.e. the actual ability to 
provide flowing water for culinary, irrigation and fire protection 
purposes).  If individual wells are proposed as sources of supply for 
each subdivision lot, or if non-public water supply wells are 
proposed to serve several lots, a statement from the State 
Engineer’s Office must be submitted indicating the feasibility of 
obtaining groundwater suitable in quantity to serve the proposed 
residences throughout the subdivision.  
(1)   Water Rights:  A memorandum of decision from the Utah 
State Engineer showing sufficient water rights for the 
proposed development shall be required.   The “sufficiency” 
of the water rights shall be determined based on state water 
use guidelines that generally require .45 acre feet of water 
for indoor use per dwelling unit and 3 acre feet of water per 1 
acre of irrigated land for outdoor use, or such other figures 
as determined by the Utah State Engineer.   
 
 
 
11-2-3 
(2)   Wet Water:  It is recognized that the transfer of paper water 
rights by the State Engineer does not necessarily correlate 
with the actual availability of wet water.  Therefore, the 
sufficiency of wet water shall be determined based on the 
actual amount required (according to the water rights 
determinations above) compared to the actual sources 
available.   
(a)  In order to insure that sufficient wet water is available, 
a flow test for any proposed well or representative test 
well shall be required.  For individual wells, a flow test 
of four (4) hours minimum is required.  For community 
wells, a flow test of 24 hours minimum shall be 
required.  For community wells in bedrock or 
fault/fracture soil conditions, longer tests will typically 
be required to ensure that water storage in the 
formation has been pumped and the water flow is 
actual well production. 
(b)   In the event that the adequacy of the underground 
aquifer cannot be addressed by the State Engineer’s 
Office, a representative number of test wells, 
depending on subdivision acreage and lot size, shall 
be drilled on the property and the quantity and quality 
of the water in each well tested and found satisfactory 
before a statement of feasibility for such wells to serve 
the entire subdivision is issued.  Information from 
existing wells in reasonable proximity to the project 
may also be considered.  Shared or common wells will 
be strongly encouraged whenever feasible or 
possible, especially in cluster design subdivision 
developments. 
b.   Quality:  A chemical and bacteriological analysis of the water shall 
be required that meets the standards of the Utah State Department 
of Environmental Quality, Division of Drinking Water, and the 
Summit County Public Health Department. 
c.   Pressure:  Adequate water pressure shall be provided, at the point 
of delivery, for an end user such as a homeowner, as well as for fire 
fighting.  Water pressure for fire fighting shall generally be 
regulated by the respective fire district. Adequate fire fighting water 
pressure shall be deemed acceptable upon receipt of an approval 
letter from the fire district.  Adequate water pressure to an end user 
shall constitute a minimum of 35 pounds per square inch (psi) of 
water being provided at the floor level of the dwelling.  For 
individual private wells, it will be assumed that adequate pressure 
can be provided by the homeowner for their own needs according  
 
 
11-2-4 
 to the size of the well pump and/or storage tank elevation. 
d.   Dependability:  The water source shall be dependable in meeting 
the water demand and in providing adequate flow capacity to serve 
the intended water user as well as water storage for fire protection.  
The source shall meet the anticipated water demand on the day of 
highest water consumption, or peak day demand. The peak day 
demand for the year-round indoor use of a single-family dwelling 
shall be 800 gallons per day (gpd).  Generally, storage volume must 
at least equal one average day’s demand or 400 gallons whichever 
is greater.  Source demand for indoor culinary water use of a single-
family dwelling shall generally be calculated as 0.56 gallons per 
minute (gpm).  Outdoor irrigation use shall generally be calculated 
as 2.80 gallons per minute (gpm)/irrigated acre.  The water source 
shall not create negative impacts or reduce the dependability of 
other water resources in the area. 
e.   Fire Protection:  All development, including a single-family dwelling 
on an individual lot or parcel, that does not have year-round access 
or is located within the Wildland Fire Interface Zone may be subject 
to the following fire protection water measures as required by the 
respective fire district and/or fire warden:  
(1)   Connection to a community or private water system, well or 
spring with a minimum 5,000 gallon water storage tank, 
pond, or other accessible water body with a dry hydrant. 
(2)   Internal fire sprinkler systems. 
4. Submission Requirements:  The applicant shall provide the following 
information regarding the proposed development and project area: 
            
a. Proposed density of the development; 
b. Well logs; 
c. Evidence of any ground water; 
d. Historic well water levels in the surrounding area; 
e. Septic tank density of the surrounding area: 
f.  Proposed lateral distances for protection zones between septic 
tanks/drain fields and water supply wells, and; 
g. Other similar information to determine whether sufficient water is 
available to serve the proposed development.   
11-2-4:   NATURAL RESOURCES:  
A. Unsuitable Development:  No land shall be considered for a development which 
is found, on the basis of engineering or geologic data, to be unsuitable for the 
activity or use proposed and that approving the use at the proposed locations is  
 
 
11-2-4 
 likely to be harmful to the public health, safety or welfare.  
B. Erosion:  Care shall be taken to ensure that development shall not significantly 
contribute to the acceleration of the erosion of soil and rock and stream 
sedimentation or cause other significant environmental concerns.  
C. Hillside Development:  Development shall minimize the highly visible placement 
of homes and other structures on hillsides.  Whenever possible, development 
shall be sensitively sited in order to encourage effective open space and the 
conservation of the natural appearance and aesthetic beauty of the mountains.  
When hillside development is permitted, it shall be integrated into the site, using 
topography, vegetation and other reasonable techniques, in a manner that 
causes it to blend into the hillside.  Development near the toe of the hill, including 
the transitional area between the hillside and flat meadow areas, is appropriate.  
D. Floodplain:  Development shall be strongly discouraged in a one hundred-year 
floodplain or in areas where there is a high water table.  Such development must 
meet the requirements of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and it 
shall not significantly alter the natural drainage patterns of the land.  
E.   Wetlands:  No development shall be permitted in moderate and high quality 
wetlands unless appropriate mitigation is approved.  This can include minimum 
mitigation requirements of the Army Corps of Engineers.  
F.  Natural Grade Slopes:  No development shall be permitted on natural grade 
slopes in excess of thirty percent (30%).  
G. Wildlife, Range Areas, Migration Corridors:  Care shall be taken to ensure that 
development shall not significantly affect wildlife birthing areas, critical winter 
range areas and migration corridors.  
H.  Visually Sensitive Areas:  Development shall not be placed on any hillside or 
ridge top in a manner that causes any portion of a structure to extend into the 
skyline as viewed from public roadways when the roadway is located below the 
ground elevation of the structure. Visually sensitive areas shall be determined 
at the time of a development application.  
I.    Drainage:  The integrity of existing and natural drainage patterns shall be 
preserved so that the aggregate of future public and private development 
activities will not cause storm drainage and floodwater patterns to exceed the 
capacity of natural or constructed drainage ways, or to subject other areas to 
increased potential for damage by flood, erosion or sedimentation, or to pollute 
natural streams, including consistency with applicable state standards.  New 
development shall not cause runoff characteristics of a site after development 
to be more disruptive to natural streams or land uses or drainage systems than 
are the runoff characteristics before development.  
 
 
 
 
11-2-5 
11-2-6 
J.   Air Quality:  Development shall not contribute significantly to the degradation of 
air quality in the county, including violation of any applicable state pollution 
control laws.  
K.  Noise Limits:  Non-agriculture development shall not generate noise equal to or 
exceeding sixty decibels (60 dB) at its property line which would result in 
materially adverse impacts relating to the use of the land in question or adjacent 
land or its occupants.  (Ord. 278, 5-61996)  
            
11-2-5:   COUNTY INFRASTRUCTURE, FACILITIES AND SERVICES: 
 
A.  Impact:  Major development shall be evaluated to determine its impact on the 
quality of public services, facilities or programs provided to the general 
community, or portions thereof.  It is the policy of the county to ensure that the 
financial integrity of existing county and/or special service district programs is not 
jeopardized by over extension, inadequately or poorly phased use levels or lack 
of revenue base as a result of new development.  Any adverse impacts caused 
by the development shall be minimized.  
 
B.   Traffic Volume:  No development shall cause the traffic volume on any public 
road or intersection thereon, affected by the proposed subdivision, to fall below 
the design capacity of the roadway, as measured by the highway capacity 
manual (Transportation Research Board, Special Report 209, 1985). 
 
C. Fire Hazard:  Any development that, due to size, building materials or proximity to 
vegetation, presents an unusual fire hazard which is beyond the firefighting 
capability of the fire district within which it is located is inappropriate and will not 
be approved by the county.  
D. Remote Locations:  Development in remote locations that will adversely and 
unreasonably affect the firefighting or emergency service capability of a fire 
district or special service district within which it is located to provide adequate 
service to the majority of the people located within the district, is inappropriate 
and will not  be approved by the county.  
E.   Locked Gates on Private Roads:  Residential development, with private roads 
providing direct access to residential properties, will not be approved if there is a 
locked gate at the entrance to the residential property unless the 
developer/owner has made prior arrangements with the county sheriff and fire 
district for emergency access to the property.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-2-6:   INFRASTRUCTURE DESIGN AND MAINTENANCE:  
A.   Rural Standards:  Eastern Summit County shall maintain rural infrastructure  
 
 
11-2-6 
 design standards.  Infrastructure that is not consistent with these standards is not 
appropriate.  Roadways shall be designed, engineered and constructed so as to 
minimize future maintenance costs, to alleviate hillside visual and functional 
problems and to avoid deep cuts.  
B.   Traffic Hazards:  No development shall be approved which will create traffic 
hazards or which does not provide adequate access for service vehicles and 
emergency vehicles, including fire trucks, ambulances and sheriff vehicles, or 
which is not designed to facilitate reasonable removal or storage of snow from 
traffic areas. 
C.   Traffic Volume:  No development shall be approved which generates traffic 
volumes that require roads to be built or existing roads to be expanded in a 
manner not consistent with the rural infrastructure standards identified in Chapter 
6 of this Title.  
D. Maintenance Responsibility:  No major residential development shall be 
approved without adequate evidence of proper long term maintenance 
responsibilities of an association of the property owners for all privately 
maintained infrastructure, including, but not limited to, road maintenance, snow 
removal, fuel breaks for firefighting, and other specific requirements as may be 
appropriate.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  11-3-1 
 
CHAPTER 3  
ZONING DISTRICTS AND REQUIREMENTS  
 
 
SECTION: 
 
11-3-1: Establishment of Zone Districts 
11-3-2: Agriculture Protection (AP) 
11-3-3: Agriculture-Grazing 100 (AG-100) 
11-3-4: Agriculture-Grazing 160 (AG-160) 
11-3-5: Highway Corridor (HC) 
11-3-6 Cabin Area (CA)  
11-3-7: Commercial (C)   
11-3-8: Light Industrial (LI)  
11-3-9: Industrial (I)   
11-3-10: Specially Planned Area (SPA) 
11-3-11: Annexation Declaration Area Overlay (ADA) 
11-3-12: Zone District Map 
11-3-13: Allowed, Conditional, Low Impact, and Temporary Uses   
11-3-14: Chart of Allowed and Permitted Uses   
 
11-3-1: ESTABLISHMENT OF ZONE DISTRICTS:  
 
In order to carry out the purposes and provisions of this chapter, the following zone 
districts are permitted within the unincorporated area of the Eastern Summit County 
Planning District:  
 
Agriculture Protection (AP)  
Agriculture-grazing 100 (AG-100)  
Agriculture-grazing 160 (AG-160)  
Highway Corridor (HC)  
Cabin Area (CA)  
Commercial (C)  
Light Industrial (LI) 
Industrial (I) 
Specially Planned Area (SPA)  
Annexation Declaration Area Overlay (ADA)  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
            
 
 
                     11-3-2 
11-3-2: AGRICULTURE PROTECTION (AP):  
A.   District Intent:  The AP zone district is established for the purpose of allowing 
development in a manner that preserves, promotes, maintains, and enhances the 
use of land for commercial agricultural purposes; minimizes scattered and leap 
frog non-agricultural development; protects and preserves natural resource 
areas; and protects and promotes the open space values of Eastern Summit 
County.  The AP zone district is intended for use or consideration only for lands 
that are adjacent to or within the primary county infrastructure and service areas. 
B. Area:  Minimum land area for each dwelling unit for density purposes is forty (40) 
acres, except as provided for in Section 11-4-4 or Section 11-4-5 of this Title. 
(Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
C. Setbacks:  Unless otherwise noted on a recorded plat, minimum setback shall be 
at least one hundred feet (100') from any public road right-of-way or, in the 
absence of a designated right-of-way, at least one hundred twenty feet (120') 
from the centerline of the public roadway. Variations in front setbacks are allowed 
to meet development approval criteria.  On all conforming parcels/lots, the 
minimum side and rear setbacks shall be fifty feet (50').   
 
1.   Wetlands and Streams:  The minimum setback from wetlands shall be 
forty feet (40’).  The minimum setback from any other naturally occurring 
year-round stream, lake, pond or reservoir shall be one hundred feet (100’) 
from the ordinary high water mark. 
 
2. Non-Conforming Lots:  
a.   Non-Conforming Lots Less than Five (5) Acres:  On non-conforming 
lots less than five acres in size, and of a configuration that does not 
allow the zone required setbacks, default setbacks shall be applied 
as described  below:  
(1)    Front Setback:  The minimum front setback shall be at least 
thirty feet (30') from the front property line. In cases where 
the property lines extend to the center of a public road or 
private driveway, the minimum setback shall be fifty-five feet 
(55’) from the centerline of the road.   
(2)   Side and Rear Setbacks:  The minimum side and rear 
setbacks shall be twelve feet (12') from the property line.  
b. Non-Conforming Parcels Larger than Five (5) Acres:  On non-
conforming parcels more than five (5) acres in size, every 
reasonable effort will be made to meet the zone required setbacks.  
The CDD or designated planning staff member may determine that 
decreased setbacks are justified due to the configuration of a lot, to  
 
 
11-3-3 
 maximize the agricultural potential of the lot, or to avoid important 
natural or unusual features.  These decreased setbacks shall not 
be less than the default setbacks unless a variance is granted by 
the Board of Adjustment.  (Ord. 470,11-19-2003; amd. Ord. 481,    
3-1-2004; 2004 Code) 
D. Height:  Maximum building height shall be thirty-two feet (32').    
11-3-3: AGRICULTURE-GRAZING 100 (AG-100):  
A. District Intent:  The AG-100 zone district is established for the purpose of allowing 
development in a manner that lessens the danger of fire and damage to property; 
protects lands for agriculture, raising of livestock, and production of timber where 
they exist; protects water supplies, wildlife, and other natural resources; and 
protects and promotes the values of Eastern Summit County.  Additionally, 
residential density is directly related to distance from primary county 
infrastructure and service areas which result from the wide scattering of 
residential development. 
B. Area:  Minimum land area for each dwelling unit for density purposes is one 
hundred (100) acres.  (Ord. 48, 3-1-2004)  
C. Setbacks:  Unless otherwise noted on a recorded plat, minimum setback shall be 
at least one hundred feet (100') from any public road right of way or, in the 
absence of a designated right of way, at least one hundred twenty feet (120') 
from the centerline of the public roadway.  Variations in front setbacks are 
allowed to meet development approval criteria.  On all conforming parcels/lots, 
the minimum side and rear setbacks shall be fifty feet (50').  
 
1. Wetlands and Streams:  The minimum setback from wetlands shall be 
forty feet (40’).  The minimum setback from any other naturally occurring 
year-round stream, lake, pond or reservoir shall be one hundred feet (100’) 
from the ordinary high water mark. 
 
2. Non-Conforming Lots:  
a. Non-Conforming Lots Less than Five (5) Acres:  On non-conforming 
lots less than five acres in size, and of a configuration that does not 
allow the zone required setbacks, default setbacks shall be applied 
as described  below:  
(1)   Front Setback:  The minimum front setback shall be at least 
thirty feet (30') from the front property line. In cases where 
the property lines extend to the center of a public road or 
private driveway, the minimum setback shall be fifty-five feet 
(55’) from the centerline of the road.   
                 
 
 
  11-3-3 
(2) Side and Rear Setbacks:  The minimum side and rear 
setbacks shall be twelve feet (12') from the property line.  
b. Non-Conforming Parcels Larger than Five (5) Acres:  On non-
conforming parcels more than five (5) acres in size, every 
reasonable effort will be made to meet the zone required setbacks.  
The CDD or designated planning staff member may determine that 
decreased setbacks are justified due to the configuration of a lot, to 
maximize the agricultural potential of the lot, or to avoid important 
natural or unusual features.  These decreased setbacks shall not 
be less than the default setbacks unless a variance is granted by 
the Board of Adjustment.  (Ord. 470,11-19-2003; amd. Ord. 481, 3-
1-2004; 2004 Code)              
D. Height:  Maximum building height shall be thirty-two feet (32'). 
E.  Special Regulation: No subdivision plat shall be approved by county without a 
plat note containing the language stated below. No building permit shall be 
issued for any previously platted lot without the signing of a "Memorandum of 
Understanding” by the owner containing the language stated below. The 
memorandum of understanding shall be filed in the records of the County 
Recorder to notify any future owner of the property of infrastructure and service 
level expectations associated with the property.  
The property owner acknowledges that he/she is building in a 
location that is far removed from the primary Summit County 
service areas.  As such, the property owner is on notice that there is 
limited access, infrastructure, and public services in the area. Some 
services, which include, but are not limited to, garbage pick up and 
school bus service, will not be provided.  Emergency response time 
will be longer than it is in more accessible areas, and access by 
emergency vehicles may be impossible at times due to snow and 
road conditions.  The owner understands and acknowledges that 
there may be infrastructure in these remote locations that does not 
meet adopted county infrastructure standards. It is the intent of 
Summit County to attempt to continue to provide the existing 
variety, scale, and frequency of public services and infrastructure 
for all existing and new development in these remote areas of 
Eastern Summit County.  It is not the intent of Summit County to 
increase the variety, scale, and frequency of public services and 
infrastructure or to provide urban levels of service and 
infrastructure in these areas.  By this notice, the property owner 
assumes the risks of occupancy as outlined above, and is hereby 
put on notice that there are no anticipated changes in the levels of 
services or infrastructure by either Summit County or the 
appropriate special service district, nor does the property owner 
expect changes beyond those identified herein.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-
2004)  
 
 
11-3-4 
11-3-4: AGRICULTURE-GRAZING 160 (AG-160):  
A. District Intent:  The AG-160 zone district is established for the purpose of allowing 
development in environmentally sensitive and remote areas of Eastern Summit 
County in a manner that protects agricultural values where possible and 
whenever they exist; minimizes disturbances to the natural environment; lessens 
the danger of fire and damage to property; protects water supplies, wildlife, and 
other natural resources; and protects and promotes the open space values of 
Eastern Summit County.  Residential densities are directly related to the extreme 
distance from primary county infrastructure and service areas and avoiding the 
excessive costs for public services which result from the scattering of residential 
development. 
B. Area:  Minimum land area for each dwelling unit for density purposes is one 
hundred sixty (160) acres.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004) 
 
C. Setbacks:  Unless otherwise noted on a recorded plat, minimum setback shall be 
at least one hundred feet (100') from any public roadway right of way or, in the 
absence of a designated right-of-way, at least one hundred twenty feet (120') 
from the centerline of the public roadway.  Variations in front setbacks are 
allowed to meet development approval criteria.  On all conforming parcels/lots, 
the minimum side and rear setbacks shall be fifty feet (50').  
  
1. Wetlands and Streams:  The minimum setback from wetlands shall be 
forty feet (40’).  The minimum setback from any other naturally occurring 
year round stream, lake, pond or reservoir shall be one hundred feet (100’) 
from the ordinary high water mark. 
 
2. Non-Conforming Lots:  
a. Non-Conforming Lots Less than Five (5) Acres:  On non-conforming 
lots less than five acres in size, and of a configuration that does not 
allow the zone required setbacks, default setbacks shall be applied 
as described  below:  
(1)  Front Setback:  The minimum front setback shall be at least 
thirty feet (30') from the front property line. In cases where 
the property lines extend to the center of a public road or 
private driveway, the minimum setback shall be fifty-five feet 
(55’) from the centerline of the road.  
(2) Side and Rear Setbacks:  The minimum side and rear 
setbacks shall be twelve feet (12') from the property line.  
b. Non-Conforming Parcels Larger than Five (5) Acres:  On non-
conforming parcels more than five (5) acres in size, every 
reasonable effort will be made to meet the zone required setbacks.   
 
 
11-3-5 
The CDD or designated planning staff member may determine that 
decreased setbacks are justified due to the configuration of a lot, to 
maximize the agricultural potential of the lot, or to avoid important 
natural or unusual features.  These decreased setbacks shall not be 
less than the default setbacks unless a variance is granted by the 
Board of Adjustment.  (Ord. 470,11-19-2003; amd. Ord. 481, 3-1-
2004; 2004 Code)      
D. Height:  Maximum building height shall be thirty-two feet (32'). 
 
E. Special Regulation:  No subdivision plat shall be approved by the county without 
a plat note containing the language stated below. No building permit shall be 
issued for any previously platted lot without the signing of a "Memorandum of 
Understanding" containing the language stated below.  The Memorandum of 
Understanding shall be filed in the records of the County Recorder to notify any 
future owner of the property of infrastructure and service level expectations 
associated with the property.  
 
The property owner acknowledges that he/she is building in a 
location that is far removed from the primary Summit County 
service areas.  As such, the property owner is on notice that there is 
limited access, infrastructure, and public services in the area.   
Some services, which include, but are not limited to, garbage pick 
up and school bus service, will not be provided.  Emergency 
response time will be longer than it is in more accessible areas, and 
access by emergency vehicles may be impossible at times due to 
snow and road conditions.  The owner understands and 
acknowledges that there may be infrastructure in these remote 
locations that does not meet adopted county infrastructure 
standards. It is the intent of Summit County to attempt to continue 
to provide the existing variety, scale, and frequency of public 
services and infrastructure for existing and new development in 
these remote areas of Eastern Summit County.  It is not the intent 
of Summit County to increase the variety, scale, and frequency of 
public services and infrastructure or to provide urban levels of 
service and infrastructure in these areas.  By this notice, the 
property owner assumes the risks of occupancy as outlined above, 
and is hereby put on notice that there are no anticipated changes in 
the levels of services or infrastructure by either Summit County or 
the appropriate special service district, nor does the property owner 
expect changes beyond those identified herein.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-
2004)
11-3-5: HIGHWAY CORRIDOR (HC):  
A. District Intent:  
 
 
11-3-5 
1. The HC zone district is established for the purposes of allowing residential 
development in a rural setting that is readily served by existing county 
infrastructure and in a manner that is compatible with agricultural land 
uses.  The location of the HC zone is based on evaluation of the following 
criteria:  
a. Ease of providing services. 
b. Possibility of connection to a water system. 
c. Existing land use patterns. 
d. Annexation boundaries of cities. 
e. Wetlands and water flow patterns.  
2. The HC zone district shall extend two hundred fifty feet (250') on either 
side of the centerline of those county roadways designated as Highway 
Corridor on the Zone District Map.  
B. Area:  Minimum land area for each dwelling unit for density purposes is one acre. 
C. Lot Width:  Minimum lot width shall be one hundred (100) lineal feet at any point, 
unless specifically and adequately clustered in order to meet development 
approval criteria to protect agricultural lands and open space. 
 
D. Setbacks:  Minimum setback shall be at least fifty feet (50') from any county 
designated roadway right of way or, in the absence of a designated right-of-way, 
at least eighty feet (80') from the centerline of the county designated roadway.  
Front setbacks from a private driveway or access road shall be thirty feet (30') 
from the front property line.  In cases where the property lines extend to the 
center of a private driveway or access road, the minimum setback shall be fifty-
five feet (55’) from the centerline of the driveway or road.  The minimum side and 
rear setbacks for all structures shall be twelve feet (12').  
1. Wetlands and Streams:  The minimum setback from wetlands shall be 
forty feet (40’).  The minimum setback from any other naturally occurring 
year-round stream, lake, pond or reservoir shall be one hundred feet (100’) 
from the ordinary high water mark. 
E. Height: Maximum building height shall be thirty-two feet (32'). 
F. Special Provision: For the purpose of locating development, density can be 
transferred between commonly owned property in the HC and abutting zone 
district to protect agriculture lands and open space based upon the findings of a 
site specific agricultural plan.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
              
 
 
 
 
11-3-6 
11-3-7 
 
11-3-6: CABIN AREA (CA)  
 
A.  District Intent:  The Cabin Area (CA) zone district is established for the purpose of 
recognizing those subdivisions that were established typically in remote areas, and 
largely prior to the existence of planning and zoning in Eastern Summit County.  The 
CA zone is to apply only to the subdivisions identified at the time of the creation of 
this zone.  Subdivisions created after the adoption of this zone are not eligible to be 
rezoned to the Cabin Area.  Uses permitted in the zone are those typically 
associated with seasonal or year-round residential and recreation.   
 
B.  Area: Minimum land area for each dwelling unit for density purposes is the recorded 
lot size of the existing subdivision plats.  No further subdivision of these lots is 
permitted for density purposes.  Lot line adjustments that do not result in an increase 
of density may be permitted, pursuant to the requirements of this Title.   
 
C.  Setbacks: Unless otherwise noted on a recorded plat, minimum setback shall be as 
provided below:   
 
1.  Wetlands and Streams: The minimum setback from wetlands shall be forty feet 
(40’).  The minimum setback from any other naturally occurring year-round 
stream, lake, pond or reservoir shall be one hundred feet (100’) from the ordinary 
high water mark.   
 
2. Lot Setbacks  
a. Default setbacks shall be applied as described below:  
(1) Front Setback: The minimum front setback shall be at least thirty feet (30') 
from the front property line.  In cases where the property lines extend to 
the center of a public road or private driveway, the minimum setback shall 
be fifty-five feet (55’) from the centerline of the road.  
(2) Side and Rear Setbacks: The minimum side and rear setbacks shall be 
twelve feet (12') from the property line.  
  
D. Height: Maximum building height shall be thirty-two feet (32').   
 
11-3-7: COMMERCIAL (C):  
 
A. District Intent:  This zone district is established for the purposes of providing the 
general public with access to a limited range of neighborhood commercial and 
service related uses necessary to support the needs of residents in the 
surrounding area.  This zone district allows existing commercial uses to be 
expanded and new commercial uses to be established within the commercial 
zone of the town center area of an unincorporated community.  All commercial 
uses exceeding 2,000 square feet are reviewed through the Conditional Use 
review process. 
             
 
 
 
11-3-7 
 
B. Existing Legal Non-conforming Commercial Uses:  Existing legal non-conforming 
commercial uses not located within a commercial zone district may continue and 
may be enlarged and/or expanded in accordance with Section 6.20 of the Code 
and the Commercial Use Criteria listed in Subsection C hereunder. 
 
C. Commercial Zone and Use Criteria:  New commercial uses shall not be 
established nor shall existing commercial uses be expanded within the 
commercial zone unless the use complies with all of the following criteria.   
 
1. The commercial use provides goods and/or services and employment 
opportunities to the residents of Eastern Summit County. 
 
2. There is sufficient off-street parking at a minimum ratio of 3 spaces per 
1000 square feet of floor area with adequate circulation and convenient 
access to the property without hazards and conflicts in residential 
neighborhoods. 
 
3. Public services (sewer, water, electric, phone, etc.) are readily available to 
the property and can be provided at adequate levels to serve the demands 
of the commercial use without negatively impacting the level of service to 
adjoining uses or existing businesses as determined through an 
infrastructure analysis. 
 
4. The property does not contain sensitive lands that are negatively impacted 
by the commercial use. 
 
5. The commercial use is compatible and consistent with or supports other 
nearby uses and/or property conditions and has frontage along a public 
roadway.  
 
6. The commercial use will not substantially alter the essential character of 
the surrounding area. 
 
7. The commercial use will not substantially increase the danger of fire or 
otherwise endanger public safety, or substantially diminish or impair the 
enjoyment of surrounding properties. 
 
8. A Site Plan, Building Architectural Drawings and Operational Management 
plan will be required as part of any conditional use, low impact permit, 
rezoning or expansion of a commercial use to fully address potential 
impacts to neighboring uses or the community at large. 
 
D. Floor Area and Lot Coverage:  Floor area and lot coverage requirements in the 
Commercial Zones shall be dictated by off-street parking, adequate circulation 
and other site design requirements and development standards. The maximum 
floor area or lot coverage shall not exceed sixty (60) percent of the lot.  
 
 
 
 11-3-7 
11-3-8 
 
E. Lot Width: There shall be no requirement for lot width, provided all off-street 
parking and circulation requirements can be satisfied. 
 
F. Setback Requirements:   Minimum front yard setbacks shall be twenty (20) feet 
from any roadway right-of-way. Minimum side yard setbacks shall be twelve (12) 
feet from the side property line. Minimum rear yard setback shall be twenty four 
(24) feet from the rear property line to provide adequate alleyways for deliveries. 
Variances to the required setbacks to facilitate the use of existing buildings may 
be considered. 
1. Wetlands and Streams:  The minimum setback from wetlands shall be 
forty feet (40’).  The minimum setback from any other naturally occurring 
year-round stream, lake, pond or reservoir shall be one hundred feet 
(100’) from the ordinary high water mark. 
 
G. Parking:  Parking shall generally be located at the side or rear of commercial 
buildings with only limited parking allowed at the front of the building between the 
roadway and the building. 
 
H. Building Height:  Maximum building height shall be thirty-two (32) feet unless 
additional building height is required for the commercial use and is approved by 
the fire district and is determined to be compatible with adjacent buildings and 
uses. In no case shall the building height exceed fifty (50) feet.  
 
I. Special Requirements:   Special landscape screening and other buffer 
requirements, to the extent practical and reasonable, may be required to 
minimize the impact on adjacent uses. Special screening and buffer requirements 
shall be determined through the Conditional Use review processes. 
 
11-3-8: LIGHT INDUSTRIAL (LI):    
 
A. District Intent: This zone district is established for the purposes of providing the 
general public with access to a range of light industrial and service related uses 
that are consistent with and supportive of the goals of the Eastern Summit 
County General Plan, necessary to support the economic growth of Summit 
County.  This zone district is also established to serve as the gap between the 
Industrial and Commercial zones. This zone district allows existing commercial 
and light industrial uses to be expanded and new commercial uses to be 
established within the Light Industrial Zone of the unincorporated community. 
However, it also is intended to permit an appropriate diversity of economic activity 
at other appropriate locations to support the economic growth of Eastern Summit 
County when appropriate services can be made available and the use is 
compatible with its surroundings. 
 
 
 
 
11-3-8 
 
B. Existing Legal Non-Conforming Light Industrial Uses: Existing legal non-
conforming light industrial uses not located within a Light Industrial zone district 
may continue and may be enlarged and/or expanded in accordance with Section 
11-6-2 of the Code and the Use Criteria listed in Subsection “C” below. 
 
C. Light Industrial Zone and Use Criteria: New light industrial uses shall not be 
established nor shall existing light industrial uses be expanded within the Light 
Industrial zone unless the use complies with all of the following criteria: 
 
1.  There is adequate off-street parking, circulation areas, and safe 
convenient access to the property. 
2.  Public services (sewer, water, electric, phone, etc.) are readily available to 
the property and/or can be provided at adequate levels to serve the 
demands of the use without negatively impacting the level of service to 
adjoining uses or existing businesses as determined through an 
infrastructure analysis. 
3.  The property does not contain sensitive lands that are negatively impacted  
by the use. 
4.  The light industrial use will not substantially alter the essential character of 
the surrounding area. 
5.  The use will not substantially increase the danger of fire or otherwise 
substantially endanger public safety. 
6.  A Site Plan, Building Architectural Drawings, and plan of operations will be 
required as part of any conditional use, low impact permit, rezoning or 
expansion of a light industrial use to fully address potential impacts to 
neighboring uses or the community at large. 
 
D. Lot Width: There shall be no requirement for lot width, provided all material 
handling, off-street parking and circulation requirements can be satisfied.  
 
E. Building Height: Maximum building height shall be thirty-two (32) feet unless 
additional building height is required for the subject use and is approved by the 
fire district and is determined to be compatible with adjacent buildings and uses. 
In no case shall the building height exceed fifty (50) feet.  
 
F. Setback Requirements: Minimum setbacks for light industrial uses shall be 
determined through the Low Impact or Conditional Use approval process. The 
minimum setback shall be at least fifty feet (50') from any county designated 
roadway right-of-way or, in the absence of a designated right-of-way, at least 
eighty feet (80') from the centerline of the county designated roadway. Front 
setbacks from a private driveway or access road shall be thirty feet (30') from the 
front property line. In cases where the property lines extend to the center of a 
private driveway or access road, the minimum setback shall be fifty five feet (55’) 
from the centerline of the driveway or road. The minimum side and rear setbacks 
for all structures shall be twelve feet (12').  
 
 
 
 
11-3-8 
11-3-9 
 
For structures taller than thirty-two (32) feet and/or parcels larger than five (5) 
acres, the setbacks shall be at least one hundred feet (100') from any public road 
right-of-way or, in the absence of a designated right-of-way, at least one hundred 
twenty feet (120') from the centerline of the public roadway, and the minimum 
side and rear setbacks shall be fifty feet (50').  
 
Wetlands and Streams: The minimum setback from wetlands shall be forty feet 
(40’). The minimum setback from any other naturally occurring year-round 
stream, lake, pond or reservoir shall be one hundred feet (100’) from the ordinary 
high water mark.  
 
G. Special Requirements: Special landscape screening and other buffer 
requirements, to the extent practical and reasonable, may be required to 
minimize the impact on adjacent uses. Special screening and buffer requirements 
shall be determined through the planning permit review processes. 
 
11-3-9: INDUSTRIAL (I):    
 
A. District Intent: This zone district is established for the purposes of providing 
locations for those industrial land uses that are consistent with and supportive of 
the goals of The Eastern Summit County General Plan. This zone district is 
intended to encourage industrial development near incorporated municipalities, 
where adequate services are generally available. However, it also is intended to 
permit an appropriate diversity of economic activity at other appropriate locations 
to support the needs of Eastern Summit County residents when appropriate 
services can be made available and the use is compatible with its surroundings. 
Industrial uses are reviewed through the Conditional Use review process.  
 
B. Existing Legal Non-Conforming Industrial Uses:  Existing legal non-conforming 
industrial uses not located within an Industrial zone district may continue and may 
be enlarged and/or expanded in accordance with Section 6.20 of the Code and 
the Industrial Use Criteria listed in Subsection “C” below. 
 
C. Industrial Zone and Use Criteria:  New industrial uses shall not be established nor 
shall existing industrial uses be expanded within the industrial zone unless the 
use complies with all of the following criteria.   
 
1. There is adequate off-street parking and circulation areas and direct 
access to a major roadway from the property where heavy equipment or 
truck traffic will not travel through established residential neighborhoods.  
 
2.  Public services are readily available to the property and can be provided at 
adequate levels to serve the demands of the industrial use without  
 
 
11-3-9 
11-3-10 
 
negatively impacting the level of service to adjoining uses or existing 
industrial uses. 
 
3. The industrial use is compatible and consistent with or supports other 
nearby uses and/or property conditions. 
 
4. The property does not contain sensitive lands that cannot be mitigated if 
negatively impacted by the industrial use. 
 
5. A Final Site Plan, Design Guidelines and Operational Management plan 
will be required as part of any conditional use, rezoning or expansion of an 
industrial use to fully address potential impacts to neighboring uses or the 
community at large. 
 
D. Floor Area and Lot Coverage:  Floor area and lot coverage requirements in the 
Industrial zones shall be dictated by off-street parking, adequate circulation and 
other site design requirements and development standards. The maximum floor 
area or lot coverage shall not exceed sixty (60) percent of the lot.  
 
E. Lot Width:  There shall be no requirement for lot width, provided all off-street 
parking and circulation requirements can be satisfied. 
 
F. Setback Requirements:  Minimum setbacks for industrial uses shall be 
determined through the Conditional Use Review Process. 
 
1. Wetlands and Streams:  The minimum setback from wetlands shall be 
forty feet (40’).  The minimum setback from any other naturally occurring 
year-round stream, lake, pond or reservoir shall be one hundred feet (100’) 
from the ordinary high water mark. 
 
G. Parking:  Parking shall generally be located at the side or rear of industrial 
buildings with only limited parking allowed at the front of the building between the 
roadway and the building. 
 
H. Building Height:  Maximum building height shall be thirty-two (32) feet unless 
additional building height is required for the industrial use and is approved by the 
fire district and is determined to be compatible with adjacent buildings and uses.   
 In no case shall the building height exceed fifty (50) feet.  
 
I. Special Requirements:  Special landscape screening and other buffer 
requirements, to the extent practical and reasonable, may be required to 
minimize the impact on adjacent uses. Special screening and buffer requirements 
shall be determined through the Conditional Use review processes. 
   
11-3-10: SPECIALLY PLANNED AREA (SPA): 
 
 
 
 
11-3-10 
 
 
A. District Purpose:  The purpose of the SPA zone district is to allow, at the 
discretion of the county, flexibility in the use of land, densities, site layout, and  
 
 project design.  The county shall only use the SPA Zone when it is clearly 
demonstrated that in doing so, substantial benefits will be derived by the 
residents of Eastern Summit County.  The SPA zone may be designated by the 
county only after an application has been submitted by the owner of the property 
to be considered in the application.  The burden shall rest upon an applicant to 
demonstrate that the proposed SPA is in the best interest of the general health, 
safety, and welfare of Eastern Summit County residents.  The SPA is intended to: 
 
1. Permit innovative considerations in the development of land to ensure that 
development is undertaken in a manner that significantly further the goals 
and objectives of the Eastern Summit County General Plan; 
 
2.  Allow a creative approach to the development and use of the land and 
related physical facilities to produce better development, design and 
construction of quality and aesthetic amenities; 
 
3. Allow for a choice in the type and quality of environments, including a mix 
of land uses, available to residents and the public; 
 
4. Better relate residential, commercial, and industrial development with 
community facilities and infrastructure location, size, and design; 
 
B. Requirements for Approving an SPA:  Before an SPA zone is designated in any 
area, the Planning Commission and County Council shall determine the 
following: 
 
1. That there are substantial tangible benefits to be derived by the general 
public of Eastern Summit County that significantly outweigh those that 
would otherwise be derived if development occurred under the provisions 
of the underlying zone district; 
 
2. That there are unique circumstances, above the normal limitations and 
allowances of the underlying zone, that justify the use of an SPA; 
 
3. That the development proposed in an application for SPA consideration is 
compatible with the rural, agricultural, and small town character of Eastern 
Summit County; 
 
4. That the development proposed in the application will not adversely affect 
the social, cultural, and rural values and institutions of Eastern Summit 
County; 
 
 
 
11-3-10 
11-3-11 
 
 
5. That the development proposed furthers the goals and objectives of the 
General Plan; 
 
6. That the development proposed complies with criteria described in this 
Title for approving a development project, including; 
 
 
a. The development evaluation standards contained in Chapter 2 of 
this Title; 
 
b. The criteria for approving an SPA that are described in Section 11-
4-5 of this Title; 
 
c. The provisional requirements of development agreements in 
Section 11-6-10 of this Title; and 
 
7. That approving an SPA zone district will not adversely affect the public 
health, safety, and general welfare. 
 
C.  Application and Review Procedure:  The procedure for applying for an SPA is 
described in Subsection 11-5-3B of this Title.  All contiguous property under one 
ownership shall be planned in a unified and comprehensive fashion and shall be 
included in an application for SPA consideration and approval.   (Ord. 481, 3-1-
2004) 
11-3-11: ANNEXATION DECLARATION AREA OVERLAY (ADA):  
A. District Purpose:  The purpose of the ADA overlay is to allow, at the discretion of 
the county, flexibility in the use of land, densities, site layout, and project design, 
and to permit a choice in living environments available in Eastern Summit 
County.  The APA overlay is intended to:  
1. Ensure that development occurring in the annexation declaration 
area of each incorporated municipality is compatible with applicable 
and appropriate standards and policies of the municipality and the 
county;  
2. Better relate residential, commercial, and industrial development with 
municipal facilities and infrastructure location, size, and design; and  
3. Ensure that appropriate and reliable services and infrastructure are 
available to serve the development.  
 
B.  Applicability:  The location of the ADA overlay shall be identical to the annexation 
declaration area of each municipality within Eastern Summit County that has so 
designated such an area.  The boundaries of the ADA shall automatically adjust  
 
 
11-3-11 
11-3-12 
 
to conform to all declared changes in annexation declaration areas by each 
municipality.  In instances where parcels held under one ownership are divided 
by an annexation declaration area boundary, the entire parcel shall be 
considered to be located within the ADA overlay.  
 
C. Review Procedure:  Before any development can occur on property containing an 
ADA overlay, it shall be reviewed in accordance with the appropriate 
development review procedure described in Chapter 4 of this Title.  The 
underlying zone shall be used as a guide for determining use and density for the 
property.  The county may impose certain other site layout requirements and 
infrastructure design requirements beyond those suggested in this title to ensure 
compliance with the standards and policies of the municipality and county for 
development in annexation declaration areas.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
 
11-3-12: ZONE DISTRICT MAP:  
A. Incorporation of Map:  The location and boundaries of established zone districts 
are set forth on the Zone District Map of the Eastern Summit County Planning 
District.  The map, with all notations, references and other information shown 
thereon, is incorporated herein and is considered part of this Title.  
B. Amendments:  If, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 5 of this Title, 
changes are made in district boundaries or other matters portrayed on the Zone 
District Map, such changes shall be entered on the map promptly after 
amendment by the CDD or designated planning staff member. 
C. Official Copy on File:  Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the 
Zone District Map, the official Zone District Map shall be located in the office of 
the Community Development Department and shall be the final authority as to the 
current zoning status of land, buildings, and other structures in Eastern Summit 
County.  
D. Uncertainty of Boundary:  Where there is uncertainty as to the boundary of any 
zone district, the following rules shall apply:  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
1. District boundaries in the AP, AG-100, and AG-160 zone districts shall 
follow township, range, or section lines wherever possible.  However, 
due to rezoning, if the specific zone district is adjusted in a manner that 
does not coincide with these lines, specific property boundaries or 
prominent natural features shall be used. (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004; amd. 
2004 Code)  
 
2. District boundaries in the HC zone district shall be located two hundred 
fifty feet (250') on either side of the centerline of only those county roads 
so designated on the Zone District Map.  
 
 
 
11-3-12 
11-3-13 
3. District boundaries in the “C”, “I” and “RI” zone districts shall follow 
specific property lines, the centerline of adjacent roads, or prominent 
natural features.  
4. When, due to scale, the Zone District Map lacks detail, is illegible, or  
where there is uncertainty, contradiction, or conflict as to the intended 
location of any zone district boundary as shown thereon, the CDD or 
designated planning staff member shall make an interpretation of the 
map upon request of any person, and any person aggrieved by any 
such interpretation may appeal the same to the Planning Commission.  
(Ord 481, 3-1-2004)   
 
11-3-13: ALLOWED, CONDITIONAL, LOW IMPACT, AND 
TEMPORARY USES:     
 
A. To facilitate public understanding of the Code and for better administration, 
convenience, and use thereof, those uses designated as "allowed" are permitted 
as a matter of right without special authorization, provided the use complies with 
all requirements of the zone district as described in this Chapter. The 
establishment of any allowed use is subject only to obtaining a building permit, 
business license, and/or road encroachment permit. 
 
B. Conditional Uses are those uses which are permitted in a particular zone district 
upon showing that such use at a specific site within that zone district will comply 
with all conditions and standards specified in the Code for ensuring compatibility 
with surrounding land uses. Conditional uses that are not capable of meeting the 
Development Evaluation Standards described in Chapter 2.0 of the Code at a 
specific location shall not be approved at that location. However, the Conditional 
Use maybe acceptable at another location where it can comply with the 
Development Evaluation Standards. 
 
C. Low Impact Uses are uses, projects and activities that are considered to have 
little or no impact on the public health, safety and general welfare. Low Impact 
Uses determined to be in compliance with the development evaluation standards 
and general regulation of the Code and provisions of the General Plan may be 
approved administratively by the CDD or designated planning staff member.   
 
D. A Temporary Use is a use that can be established for a limited duration with the 
intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of the time period. Any use not 
listed as an allowed use or a Conditional Use within a zone district may be 
considered as a Temporary Use pursuant to and in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 11-4-6 of the Code.  
 
 
 
 
 
11-3-14 
11-3-14: CHART OF ALLOWED AND PERMITTED USES:   
 
A. The following chart titled "Chart of Allowed and Conditional Uses" defines 
Allowed, Conditional and Low Impact Uses for the various zone districts. Those 
uses designated by the letter "A" shall be considered allowed uses in the 
particular zone district; the letter "C" shall represent those uses that require  
  
 Conditional Use approval and the letters “L” shall represent those uses that 
require Low Impact Permit approval.  
 
 
Zoning Legend 
            
(Refer to Sections 11-3-2 through 11-3-9 for greater detail on zoning specifications) 
 
 
 
 
AP 
Agriculture Protection 
(1 dwelling unit/40 acres) 
 
  
C 
 
Commercial 
 
AG-100 
Agriculture Protection 
(1 dwelling unit/100 acres) 
 
  
I 
 
Industrial 
 
AG-160 
Agriculture Protection 
(1 dwelling unit/160 acres) 
 
  
RI 
 
Railroad Industrial 
 
HC 
Highway Corridor 
 
   
 
 
Use Legend 
 
(Refer to Section 11-3-13 for greater detail on use specifications) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Use Legend 
 
(Refer to Section 11-3-13 for greater detail on use specifications) 
A Allowed  T Temporary 
C Conditional    
L Low Impact    
 
 
           
CHART OF ALLOWED AND PERMITTED USES* 
 
Permitted Uses AP AG-
100 
AG-  
160 
CA HC C LI I Additional Reference 
Accessory buildings and uses to 
the principal residential dwelling 
unit or subdivision, not to exceed 
2,000 square feet. 
A A A A A L    
Accessory buildings and uses to 
the principal residential dwelling 
unit or subdivision, exceeding 
2,000 square feet. 
C C C C C C    
Accessory Dwelling unit L L L L C L   Section 11-6-5 
Agricultural Employee Dwelling 
unit  
C C C  C    Section 11-6-5 
Agricultural Employee Facility for 
the purpose of providing shelter 
for more than one family. 
C C C  C     
Agriculture buildings and uses 
customarily associated with 
traditional  agriculture operations 
as defined in Appendix A. 
A A A  A     
Auto Impoundment Yard and 
towing services 
      A C  
Automotive Sales      L    
Auto Repair, Service and Detailing      L A   
Auto Wrecking Yard        C  
Banks and Financial Services      L    
Bars, Taverns, Private Clubs      C    
Bed and Breakfast Inn. C C C  C L    
Butcher, Retail      C L   
 
 
Permitted Uses AP AG-
100 
AG-  
160 
CA HC C LI I Additional Reference 
Cemetery C C C  C C    
Child Care, In-home (4 
children or less) 
L L L  L     
Child Care, Family (fewer than 
9 children) 
L L L  L     
Child Care, Family (with 9–16 
children) 
L L L  L     
Child Care, Commercial      C    
Commercial Kennels  C C C  C C C C  
Commercial Riding Arenas  C C C  C     
Commercial Stables C C C       
Dwelling unit, multi-family. C    C     
Dwelling unit, one-family. A A A A A     
Dwelling unit, single-family,  
attached. 
L    L     
Food Processing, Commercial      L  L  
Funeral Services C C C  C L    
Gas and fuel, storage and 
wholesale  
     C C   
Gasoline Service Station with  or 
without Convenience Store 
     L    
Guest ranches or lodge intended 
to attract visitors/patrons on a 
daily basis or an extended stay. 
C C C       
Historic Structures, preservation 
of, including related accessory and 
supporting uses 
A A A A A A A A  
Home Occupation. A A A A A    Section 11-6-3 
 
 
Permitted Uses AP AG-
100 
AG-  
160 
CA HC C LI I Additional Reference 
Houses of Worship including 
churches and other religious 
institutions. 
C C C C C C    
Hospitals       C    
Hotel, Motel or Inn      L    
Indoor Entertainment such as 
bowling alleys, skating rinks, 
movie theater, performing arts 
center 
     L    
Industrial Uses and operations 
including storage, and processing. 
       C  
Institutional Uses including fire 
stations, private schools and 
public or quasi-public buildings. 
C C C  C C    
Logging Camp C L L       
Manufacturing, custom L    L L L L  
Manufacturing, light       L L  
Manufacturing, heavy        C  
Mobile Home Park C    C     
Mobile home with foundation (refer 
to Prefabricated Home definition.) 
A A A A A L    
Mobile home without foundation C C C C C     
Municipal Landfill        C  
Nursery/greenhouse. C C C  C A    
Oil wells, natural gas wells and 
steam wells  
C C C     C Section 11-4-10.F 
Open Recreation uses C L L C C L    
Petroleum Refineries  C C     C  
 
 
Permitted Uses AP AG-
100 
AG-  
160 
CA HC C LI I Additional Reference 
Professional Offices      L    
Railroad Industrial Uses including 
shipping and distribution.       L L  
 
Recreation and Athletic Facilities      L    
Rehearsal or teaching studio for 
creative, performing and/or martial 
arts with no public performances 
     L    
Recycling Facility, Class I 
A A A A A A A A  
Recycling Facility, Class II 
       L  
 
Residential Care Facilities 
C C C  C C   Section 11-6-16 & 
Appendix A 
Restaurant, not exceeding 2,000 
sq. ft.  
     A    
Restaurant, exceeding 2,000 sq. 
ft.  
     L    
Restaurant with a drive through      L    
Retail commercial establishments, 
exceeding 2,000 square feet. 
     L    
Retail commercial establishments, 
not to exceed 2,000 square feet. 
     A    
Rock quarries, gravel pits, and 
associated surface mining uses 
including, but not limited to, 
filtering, sifting, and processing of 
soil. 
C C C     L  
Seasonal Recreation, Commercial 
(Non- Motorized) 
L L L  L   L  
Seasonal Recreation, Commercial 
(Motorized) 
C C C  C   C  
Sexually Oriented Businesses         C Appendix B 
Shooting Ranges, Indoor      C C L  
 
 
Permitted Uses AP AG-
100 
AG-  
160 
CA HC C LI I Additional Reference 
Shooting Ranges, Outdoor C C C       
Telecommunication Facilities -               
Co-Location 
A A A A A A A A Section 11-6-7 
Telecommunication Facilities – 
Stealth 
A A A A A A A A Section 11-6-7 
Underground transmission lines 
exceeding 12 inches diameter, 
(i.e., gas, oil, water, etc.). 
C C C C C C C C  
Underground utility uses, including 
transmission lines for natural gas, 
water, sewer, telephone, power, 
etc. 
A A A A A A A A  
Utility structures and related 
facilities  
C L L C C C L L
  
Section 11-6-6 
Utility Towers and associated 
transmission and distribution lines 
45 feet in height or less.  
L A A L L L L A  
Utility Towers and associated 
transmission and distribution lines 
greater than 45 feet in height.  
C C L C C C C L  
Veterinarian Clinic L L L C L L    
Warehousing and commercial 
storage.  
   C   L C  
Water and Wastewater Treatment 
Plant 
C C C C C  C C  
Wind power generation facilities 
45 feet in height and less 
A A A A A A A A  
Wind power generation facilities 
greater than 45 feet in height. 
C L L C   L L Section 11-4-10.G 
 
 
 
 
*A Temporary Use is a use that can be established for a limited duration with the 
intent to discontinue such use upon the expiration of the period.  Any use not listed 
as an allowed use or a Conditional Use within a zone district may be considered as 
a Temporary Use pursuant to and in accordance with the provisions of Section    
11-4-6 of the Code. 
             
           
 
 
 
 
 
                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                     11-4-1 
                      11-4-2 
CHAPTER 4 
DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESSES AND PROCEDURES 
 
 
SECTION: 
 
11-4-1: Purpose 
11-4-2: Lot of Record 
11-4-3: Legally Created Lot 
11-4-4: Divisions of Agricultural Lands 
11-4-5: Non-Agricultural Development of Lands divided for Agricultural Purposes 
11-4-6: Permits Required 
11-4-7: General Provisions 
11-4-8: Minor Subdivision of Property Review 
11-4-9: Cluster Bonus/Agricultural Preservation Subdivision Review 
11-4-10: Major Development Review Process 
11-4-11: Final Site Plan Review 
11-4-12: Conditional Use Review 
11-4-13: Temporary Use Review 
11-4-14: Zoning Variances 
11-4-15: Special Exceptions 
11-4-16: Low Impact Permit Review  
11-4-17: Lot Line Adjustments 
11-4-18: Amendments to Recorded Subdivision Plats  
11-4-19: Condominium Plats 
 
11-4-1: PURPOSE:  
The purpose of this chapter is to provide both a simple and comprehensive 
explanation for consideration of development applications.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
Except as otherwise provided for in this Title, a "lot of record" or “legally created lot” 
is required for the development of a single family dwelling, subdivision, or other 
development action, permit, or use identified in Section 11-3-13 of this Title. The 
“lot of record” or “legally created lot” status of a property gives the land owner, or 
designated representative, the right to apply for such entitlement.  
Land divisions or partitions for agricultural purposes do not qualify for non-
agricultural uses unless the property complies with Section 11-4-5 of this Title, in 
which case “lot of record” or “legally created lot” status is not required.    
11-4-2: LOT OF RECORD: 
A. Any parcel/lot described in a deed, sales contract or survey, that was recorded in  
 
 
11-4-2 
 the office of the Summit County Recorder before August 1, 1977, is a “lot of 
record.”  Any parcel/lot described in a deed, sales contract, or survey that was 
recorded in the office of the Summit County Recorder between August 1, 1977 
and June 30, 1992, which complied with the zoning requirements in effect at the 
time of its creation, is also a "lot of record."  
A "lot of record" is eligible for the development of a single family dwelling, 
subdivision, or other development action, permit, or use identified in Section 11-
3-13 of this Title.  The “lot of record” status of a property gives the land owner or 
designated representative the right to apply for such entitlement.  
The allowable density for a “lot of record” is determined by the underlying zone 
district.  A “lot of record” that is smaller than the applicable minimum parcel size 
for the zone district in which it is located may be eligible for one (1) unit of 
density, if all applicable provisions of this Title can be satisfied.  
Any parcel/lot that is not a “lot of record” and that was not created in accordance 
with the land use ordinances of Eastern Summit County is eligible for 
development of a single family dwelling, subdivision, or other development 
action, permit, or use identified in Section 11-3-13 of this Title, by an action of the 
County through one of the processes as outlined in Section 11-4-2(F) herein, 
provided all Code and General Plan criteria can be met.  
There are parcels/lots within Eastern Summit County that, while their existence 
may be recorded in the office of the Summit County Recorder, were not created 
in accordance with the land use ordinances of Eastern Summit County as 
described herein.  Summit County will not process a development application or 
issue a building permit for such parcels/lots except as provided for in Subsection 
11-4-2(F) herein 
B.  Lot of Record Verification: The CDD or designated planning staff member shall 
verify “lot of record” status on all parcels for development applications in which an 
associated building permit will be issued, including requests to subdivide 
property, except as provided for in Subsection 11-4-2(G) herein.   The CDD or 
designated planning staff member decision on the “lot of record" status will be 
made in writing and provided to the applicant and land owner. 
C. Parcel Combinations:  
1. In the event that two (2) or more adjacent “lots of record” are combined 
through a lot line adjustment process in accordance with this Title, the 
newly created parcel shall be considered one “lot of record.”  Any further 
subdivision of the property would be subject to the underlying zone district  
 
 
11-4-2 
 with respect to density. 
2. In the event that one (1) or more adjacent “lots of record” or “legally 
created lots” are combined with one (1) or more parcels that are not “lots 
of record” through a lot line adjustment or plat amendment process in 
accordance with this Title, the newly created parcel shall be considered 
one “lot of record” (or if combined with a “legally created lot” through a plat 
amendment, one “legally created lot”). Any further subdivision of the lot 
would be subject to the underlying zone district and the acreage of the 
combined parcel will be counted for density purposes. However, if existing 
density has been utilized for development purposes, it shall be accounted 
for in the total density of the combined parcel.  
D. Appeal Procedure: A "lot of record" determination may be appealed to the County 
Council within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the decision in accordance 
with Section 11-7-17 of this Title.  
E.  Standards for Verification:  The following factors shall be taken into consideration 
in determining “lot of record” status, namely: 
1. If a government action creates a public road that bisects a “lot of record,” 
the parcels on either side of the road are considered to be separate “lots of 
record."  If a government action results in the widening of a road within a 
“lot of record,” the parcel shall maintain its “lot of record” status.  
2. If the Union Pacific Rail Trail which follows the historic rail bed divides a 
“lot of record,” then the parcels on either side of the Rail Trail are 
considered to be separate “lots of record.”   
3. If a property owner petitions to have only a portion of a “lot of record” 
annexed into a city, the portion of the property remaining under County 
jurisdiction loses its “lot of record” status unless the property is subdivided 
in accordance with this Title prior to or concurrent with the annexation.     
4. Government survey lot(s), although shown as individual lots on ownership 
plat maps, are not considered to be "lots of record" unless the lot(s) 
otherwise conform to the definition of a “lot of record” and there is clear 
evidence that the government survey lot was owned, conveyed, or 
patented independent of the quarter section of which it was a part. 
5. Section lines do not divide a parcel into two (2) or more "lots of record" 
unless the parcel(s) otherwise conform to the definition of a "lot of record.”  
 
 
11-4-2 
6. If the description of a "lot of record" has changed due to an updated 
survey for the purpose of confirming property boundaries, and the 
description does not create additional, separately described parcels, the 
“lot of record” status will remain intact.  
7. Multiple Assessor Parcel or property tax identification numbers are not 
conclusive proof of “lot of record”. 
F. Any parcel/lot that is not a “lot of record” and that was not created in accordance 
with the land use ordinances of Eastern Summit County is eligible for 
development of a single family dwelling, subdivision, or other development 
action, permit, or use identified in Section 11-3-13 of this Title, by an action of the 
County through one of the following development processes, as defined and 
outlined in Chapter 4 of this Title, provided all Code and General Plan criteria can 
be met.  
1. Lot Line Adjustment/Boundary Line Agreement, including the combination 
of a “non-lot of record” with a “lot of record.” 
2. Subdivision (In the case of recombining parcels which were broken off 
from a “lot of record,” the revised description of the parcel(s) must match 
the original description that complied with the “lot of record" definition, 
subject to modifications permitted under the preceding Section E). 
3. Plat Amendment, including the expansion of a subdivision to include land 
outside of a subdivision, regardless of “lot of record” status of the 
expansion parcel(s). 
 
 4.  Special Exception as granted by the County Council if the criteria for 
approval as outlined in Section 11-4-11(B) of this Title can be satisfied. 
 
G. Exceptions:  
 
1. Verification of "lot of record" status is not required for the following building 
improvements, permits, subdivisions, or structures: 
 
a. Agricultural exempt buildings 
b. Grading permits 
c. Land Divisions for agricultural purposes  
d. Building additions, remodels, detached garages, or other accessory 
structures less than 2,000 square feet which are associated with an 
existing residential dwelling. 
 
 
11-4-3 
 
11-4-3: LEGALLY CREATED LOT: 
 
A. A “legally created lot” is: 
 
1.  A lot within an existing platted and approved subdivision which was 
created in accordance with the subdivision regulations of Summit County 
and recorded in the office of the County Recorder; or 
 
2.  A lot that was created from the conversion of agricultural land divisions to 
a nonagricultural subdivision in accordance with the Section 11-4-5; or 
 
3.  a lot that successfully completes one of the development processes as 
outlined in Section 11-4-3(E), below.  
A "legally created lot" is eligible for the development of a single family dwelling, 
re-subdivision, or other development action, permit, or use identified in Section 
11-3-13 of this Title. The “legally created lot” status of a property gives the land 
owner or designated representative the right to apply for such entitlement.  
 
The density of a “legally created lot” within an existing platted and approved 
subdivision is determined by the approved subdivision plat.  In the event a lot 
owner of a “legally created lot” applies for a re-subdivision, the density is 
determined by the underlying zone district in accordance with the development 
approval process. A “legally created lot” that is part of a homeowners’ 
association and is governed by CC&R’s is not eligible for re-subdivision without 
the consent of all owners of record within the subdivision.  
The density of a legally created lot outside of an approved subdivision plat is 
determined by the underlying zone district.   
Any lot that is not created in accordance with the land use ordinances of Eastern 
Summit County is not entitled to “legally created lot” status. The owner of any lot 
which has lost its “legally created lot” status may be eligible to restore that status 
as provided for in Section 11-4-3(E) herein.  
There are lots within Eastern Summit County that, while their existence may be 
recorded in the office of the Summit County Recorder, were not created in 
accordance with the land use ordinances of Eastern Summit County as 
described herein.  Summit County will not process a development application or 
issue a building permit for such parcels/lots except as provided for in Subsection 
11-4-3 (F) herein. 
 
 
 
11-4-3 
B. Lot Combinations:  
1. In the event that two (2) or more “legally created lots” are combined through a 
plat amendment or lot line adjustment process in accordance with this Title, 
the newly created lot shall be considered one “legally created lot.” Any future 
subdivision of the lot would be subject to the underlying zone district with 
respect to density. 
2. In the event that one or more “legally created lots” within an approved 
subdivision plat are combined through a lot line adjustment process with one 
or more adjacent “non-legally created lots,” which also are within the same 
approved subdivision plat, the newly created lot shall be considered one 
“legally created lot.”  Any further subdivision of the lot would be subject to the 
underlying zone district and the acreage of the combined “legally created lot” 
may be counted for density purposes.  However, if existing density has been 
utilized for development purposes, it shall be accounted for in the total density 
of the combined “legally created lot”.    
C.  Standards for Verification:  The following factors shall be taken into consideration 
in determining “legally created lot” status, namely: 
1. If a government action creates a public road that bisects a “legally created 
lot,” the lots on either side of the road are considered to be separate 
“legally created lots.”  If a government action results in the widening of a 
road within a “legally created lot”, the lot shall maintain its “legally created 
lot” status.  
2. If the Union Pacific Rail Trail which follows the historic rail bed divides a 
“legally created lot,” then the lots on either side of the Rail Trail are 
considered to be separate “legally created lots.” 
3. If a property owner petitions to have only a portion of a “legally created lot”  
annexed into a city, the portion of the property remaining under County 
jurisdiction loses its “legally created lot” status unless the lot is re-
subdivided in accordance with this Title prior to or concurrent with the 
annexation.     
4. Government survey lot(s), although shown as individual lots on ownership 
plat maps, are not considered to be “legally created lots” unless the lot(s) 
otherwise conform to the definition of a “legally created lot” and there is 
clear evidence that the government survey lot was owned, conveyed, or 
patented independent of the quarter section of which they are a part. 
 
 
11-4-3 
5. Section lines do not divide a lot into two (2) or more "legally created lots" 
unless the lot(s) otherwise conform to the definition of a "legally created 
lot.” 
6. If the description of a "legally created lot" has changed due to an updated 
survey for the purpose of confirming property boundaries and the 
description does not create additional, separately described lots, the 
“legally created lot” status will remain intact.  
7. Multiple Assessor Parcel or property tax identification numbers are not 
conclusive proof of “legally created lot” status. 
E. Any lot that is not a “legally created lot” and that was not created in accordance 
with the land use ordinances of Eastern Summit County is eligible for 
development of a single family dwelling, subdivision, or other development 
action, permit, or use identified in Section 11-3-13 of this Title, by completing one 
of the following development processes, as defined and outlined in Chapter 4 of 
this Title, provided all Code and General Plan criteria can be met.  
 1. Lot Line Adjustment/Boundary Line Agreement 
2. Subdivision (In the case of reconstituting “legally created lots”, the revised 
description of the lot(s) must match the previous description that complied 
with the “legally created lot” definition, subject to modifications permitted 
under the preceding Section D. 
 
3. Plat Amendment, including the expansion of a subdivision to include land 
outside of a subdivision, regardless of the “legally created lot” or “lot of 
record” status of the expansion parcel(s). 
 
 4.  Special Exception as granted by the County Council if the criteria for 
approval as outlined in Section 11-4-11(B) of this Title can be satisfied.   
 
F. Exceptions:  
 
1. Verification of "legally created lot” status is not required for the following 
building improvements, permits, subdivisions, or structures: 
 
a. Agricultural exempt buildings 
b. Grading permits 
c. Land Divisions  for agricultural purposes 
d. Building additions, remodels, detached garages, or other accessory  
 
 
11-4-3 
11-4-4 
11-4-5 
structures less than 2,000 square feet which are associated with an 
existing residential dwelling. 
 
11-4-4:  DIVISIONS OF AGRICULTURAL LANDS: 
  
 A. The purpose of this section is to exempt lots or parcels that result from the 
division or partition of agricultural land from the requirements of a subdivision 
process.  Land may be divided without first going through a development, 
subdivision, or platting process if the land is a bona fide division or partition of 
agricultural land for agricultural purposes.  
 
 B.  Criteria: A lot or parcel may be legally divided or partitioned for agricultural 
purposes, or shall be deemed so if already existing, if it meets the following 
requirements:  
1.  The parcel or lot qualifies as land in agricultural use under Section 59-2-
502 of Utah Code Annotated; and 
2.  The land is not used and will not be used for any nonagricultural purpose.  
C. Review Procedure: The CDD or designated planning staff member shall verify 
the criteria set forth in this section in order to determine whether an existing or 
prospective division or partition of agricultural lands for agricultural purposes 
complies with the requirements of this Section. This decision may be appealed 
to the County Council within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the decision 
in accordance with Section 11-7-17 of this Title.   
D. Exemption from Subdivision Process or Plat Requirements; Recording: Parcels 
or lots meeting the criteria in subsection B above are exempt from the 
requirements of the subdivision process or plat requirements, however, the 
boundaries of each lot or parcel exempted shall be either described in a deed 
through a metes and bounds description recorded with the County Recorder or 
graphically illustrated on a record of survey map recorded with the County 
Recorder. 
E. If a lot or parcel that is divided or partitioned pursuant to this section is thereafter 
used for a nonagricultural purpose, the lot or parcel must comply with the 
requirements of Section 11-4-5.    
11-4-5:  NON-AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT OF LANDS DIVIDED 
FOR AGRICULTURAL PURPOSES:  
Lands divided or partitioned for agricultural purposes are eligible for the development  
 
 
11-4-5 
11-4-6 
11-4-7 
of a single family dwelling, subdivision, or other development action, permit, or use 
identified in Section 11-3-13 of this Title, by complying with the subdivision regulations 
of this Title and provided that all zone district, Code and General Plan criteria can be 
met.   
All existing dwelling units of the original agricultural parcel shall be evaluated and 
accounted for within the overall density of the nonagricultural subdivision. 
“Lot of record” or “legally created lot” status is not required if (a) the property was 
originally divided or partitioned for agricultural purposes pursuant to Section 11-4-4, 
and (b) the boundaries of each lot or parcel are either described in a deed through a 
metes and bounds description recorded with the County Recorder or graphically 
illustrated on a record of survey map recorded with the County Recorder, and (c) the 
total area of the parcel(s) comprising the property is at least five (5) contiguous acres, 
and (d) the landowner certifies that: 
1. The land has been actively devoted to agricultural use producing in excess of 
50% of the average agricultural production per acre of similarly situated land for 
each of the preceding two (2) years; and  
2. The land has been devoted to the raising of useful plants and animals with a 
reasonable expectation of profit.  
Review Procedure: The CDD or designated planning staff member shall verify the 
criteria set forth in this section in order to determine whether lands divided or 
partitioned for agricultural purposes are eligible for non-agricultural development 
consistent with the requirements of this Section. This decision may be appealed to the 
County Council within ten (10) calendar days from the date of the decision in 
accordance with Section 11-7-17 of this Title.   
11-4-6: PERMITS REQUIRED: 
No development or development activity may be undertaken within the unincorporated 
areas of Eastern Summit County unless all development permits applicable to the 
proposed development or subdivision of land area are issued in accordance with the 
provisions of this Title. 
11-4-7:  GENERAL PROVISIONS: 
A. Initiation:  An application for development approval or a development permit 
shall be initiated by submitting the appropriate application to the CDD or 
designated planning staff member. 
 
 
 
11-4-7 
11-4-8 
B. Review and Recommendation of CDD or designated planning staff member:  
1. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall review the 
application for sufficiency. If the CDD or designated planning staff 
member determines that the application does not contain information 
sufficient to determine the appropriate approval procedure or compliance 
with this Title, the CDD or designated planning staff member shall serve a 
written notice to the applicant specifying the deficiencies of the 
application. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall take no 
further action on the application unless the deficiencies are remedied. An 
application for development approval shall be deemed insufficient if any 
relevant information is not provided, if the application form is not signed 
by the property owner, required fees are not paid, or if other information, 
as may be specified by the CDD or designated planning staff member 
and which is necessary to adequately review the application, is not 
supplied in a timely fashion. If adequate information is not submitted 
within thirty (30) days of CDD or designated planning staff member 
notification, all application materials will be returned to the applicant.  
2. A determination of sufficiency shall not constitute a determination of 
compliance with the substantive requirements of this Title, nor shall it 
indicate that the information submitted by the applicant is accurate or has 
been verified. Additional information may be required at a later date 
through the approval process. 
3. All development approvals shall be conditioned so that no final approval 
shall be issued on the subject property until all outstanding and current 
property taxes have been paid. 
4. The CDD is the delegated authority to make administrative interpretations 
of this Title and to provide such guidance as is necessary to applicants for 
development approval consistent with and in furtherance of Chapter 1.  
5. Any person adversely affected by an administrative interpretation of this 
Title may appeal such interpretation to the Summit County Council, in 
accordance with the Appeals Procedures set forth in Section 11-7-17 of 
this Title.   
11-4-8: MINOR SUBDIVISION OF PROPERTY REVIEW:  
A. Purpose:  The purpose of this section is to increase opportunities for residents 
and local workers to live in Eastern Summit County; encourage these 
opportunities near existing county infrastructure and services; promote a pattern 
of development that is most likely to be consistent with the underlying 
 
 
11-4-8 
 community values; and provide a simple way for property owners to subdivide 
lawfully created parcels.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
B.  Applicability:  
1. Generally:  The minor subdivision of property review process can be 
utilized to create one additional parcel on a “lot of record” that is not within 
a previously approved subdivision plat, for a total of two (2) parcels.  (Ord. 
481, 3-1-2004; amd. 2004 Code)  
2. HC Zone:  In the Highway Corridor (HC) zone, a lawfully created “lot of 
record” that is no t within a previously approved subdivision plat that is 
two (2) acres in size or larger will be considered for one additional lot 
under the minor subdivision of property review process.  
            
3. AP Zone:  In the Agricultural Preservation (AP) zone, a lawfully created lot 
of record that is not within a previously approved subdivision plat and is 
ten (10) acres or larger will be considered for one additional lot under the 
minor subdivision of property review process.  
4. AG-100 and AG-160 Zones:  In the AG-100 and AG-160 zones, a 
minor subdivision process may be followed to create one additional 
parcel if there is adequate acreage for each resulting parcel to meet 
the minimum zone requirements.  
5. Exemption: One new parcel, a minimum of one (1) acre in size and 
located at least 1,000 feet away from another parcel created under this 
exemption, may be split from 100 contiguous acres of agricultural land, 
including such parcels that may be bisected by a public or private 
roadway, without complying with the subdivision plat requirements.  
The 100 acre parcel is not required to be a lot of record, according to 
the definition provided in Appendix A of this Title, in order to qualify for 
this exemption. However, if the 100 acre parcel is a lot of record, it 
shall retain its lot of record status after the creation of the new parcel. 
However, prior to the issuance of a building permit for such a parcel, 
the following shall be provided: 
a. A site plan showing the location of the proposed building(s) in 
relation to parcel boundaries prepared by a surveyor licensed in 
Utah, to ensure that the building(s) meets the setback 
requirements identified in this Title.  
b. Evidence of legal access to the property that complies with the 
requirements in this Title.  
 c. A memorandum of decision from the State Engineers Office that  
 
 
11-4-8 
  ensures adequate water is available for a private well or a 
written commitment from a municipality or private water service 
company. 
 d. Evidence that an adequate wastewater system has been 
approved by the Summit County Health Department.    
C. Criteria for Approval:  Before an application for minor subdivision of property can 
be approved, it must conform to all of the following criteria:  
1. All new lots created shall be clustered to the maximum extent possible.  
2. Access to all lots shall be consolidated to the greatest extent practicable 
and reasonable.  
3. Each lot shall have legal access through a recorded right-of-way or 
easement. Access to the property from a public road must be granted by 
the state or county, whichever is appropriate. 
 
4. The project must comply with the development evaluation standards 
provided in Chapter 2 of this Title.  
5. The project must comply with the infrastructure standards in Chapter 6 of 
this Title.  
6. The minimum parcel size for new parcels created through this 
process will be one acre.  
7. In general, lots and building sites should be placed within five hundred 
feet (500') of the road unless the density can be clustered off the roadway 
in such a way as to preserve and not negatively impact the agricultural 
use of the property. (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
8. All contiguous property under one ownership shall be planned in a unified 
and comprehensive fashion and shall be included in an application for 
subdivision consideration and approval.  
D. Submission Requirements:  An application for minor subdivision of property 
approval shall not be accepted as complete unless such application contains the 
information set forth herein; provided, however, that the CDD or designated 
planning staff member may request, and the applicant shall submit, such 
additional information as may be needed to ascertain whether such application 
conforms to the requirements of the this Title.  The CDD or designated planning 
staff member may also determine that due to the nature of the parcel and of the 
subdivision proposed, some of the submission requirements can be waived in an 
effort to simplify to application process.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004; amd. 2004 Code)  
1. Sketch Plan:  Prior to submitting a formal application for development  
 
 
11-4-8 
 review, an applicant shall submit a sketch plan, which shall be prepared 
in pen or pencil, and shall be drawn to a convenient scale of not more 
than one hundred feet to an inch (1" =100') and shall show the following 
information:  
a. The creation date of the parcel(s) to be subdivided in accordance 
with the definition of a "lot of record", as defined in Appendix A of 
this Title.  
b. The name of the subdivision.  This name shall not duplicate 
the name of any plat previously recorded.  
c. Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner, 
and citation of last instrument conveying title to each parcel of 
property involved in the proposed subdivision, giving grantor, 
grantee, date, and land records reference.  
d. Legal description and location of property, including citation of any 
existing legal rights-of-way, irrigation ditches, or easements 
affecting the property; and existing covenants on the property, if 
any.  
e. The approximate location, dimensions, and areas of all proposed 
or existing lots, existing easements, burial grounds, railroad rights 
of way, watercourses, and names of all existing streets or other 
public roads adjacent to the proposed lots.  
f. A delineation of environmentally sensitive areas including, but not 
limited to, wetlands, and slopes exceeding thirty percent (30%), 
ridgelines and floodplains. 
g. Identification of the means for providing water supply, power, 
sanitary sewage systems, collection and discharge of surface 
water drainage, and fire protection.  
h. All areas within and adjacent to the project, including areas 
separated by a street, highway, road, right of way, railroad line, or 
stream or watercourse, under common ownership, shall be 
identified in the sketch plan. 
  
2. Final Plat:  An application for final plat approval shall be submitted with a  
 completed Final Subdivision Plat Application form.  The application shall 
also include the following:  
      
a. Preliminary title report covering all property located within the 
subdivision. The report shall be prepared or be updated to within 
thirty (30) days of the date of recording the subdivision plat.  
 
 
 
11-4-8 
b. Approval of the power company on its ability to provide 
service.  
c. An endorsement from the County Health Department that 
on site and off site impacts of septic system development 
can be mitigated and its recommended mitigation 
measures.  
d. Approval of the local fire protection district and its 
recommended mitigation measures.    
e. Approval of the County Department of Public Works or the 
Utah Department of Transportation for curb cuts and other 
roadway improvement requirements necessitated by the 
proposed development.  
f. Approval of the County Sheriff's Department.  
g. A detailed final plat that incorporates the following.  The 
final plat shall be prepared by a licensed land surveyor on 
reproducible Mylar at scale not more than one inch equals 
one hundred feet (1"= 100').  The size shall be twenty four 
inches by thirty six inches (24" x 36").  
(1) The locations, dimensions, and areas of all proposed lots. 
(2) Indication of the use of each lot (single-family, open space, 
agriculture, etc.). 
(3) The date of the plat, approximate true north point, scale, title 
of the subdivision, and the name of the land surveyor. 
(4) The location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the 
property (expressed in feet and decimals of a foot), water 
bodies, streams, drainage ditches, existing streets, 
easements, alleys, and other public ways; and building 
envelopes, if necessary. 
(5)  All monuments erected, corners, and other points 
established in the field in their proper places.  The material of 
which the monuments, corners, or other points are made 
shall be noted at the representation thereof or by legend; 
except, that lot corners need not be shown.  The legend for 
metal monuments shall indicate the kind of metal and the 
diameter, length, and weight per lineal foot of the 
monuments. 
(6)  Lots shall be consecutively numbered or lettered in 
alphabetical order with addresses, approved by the county, 
for each lot. 
 
 
 
11-4-8 
(7) A notation and explanation of drainage easements, site 
easements, and reservations, if any; and endorsement of the 
owner. 
 
 (8) Notation of any self-imposed and other restrictions or 
requirements of service providers and the CDD or 
designated planning staff member.     
(9) Signature blocks for the County Health Department, County 
Recorder, CDD and County Engineer.     
(10)  Endorsement on the plat by every person having a security 
interest in the subdivision property that he is subordinating 
his liens to all covenants, servitude and easements imposed 
on the property, and all conditions of subdivision approval 
imposed by the county. 
(11) A statement certifying that all lots within the proposed 
subdivision are buildable, and that any further subdivision of 
such lots, whether by deed, bequest, divorce decree, or 
other recorded instrument shall not result in a buildable lot 
until the same has been approved in accordance with this 
Title. 
(12) A note on the plat stating that "all lots within this subdivision 
must meet all building permit requirements at the time of 
building permit issuance". 
(13) A note on the plat stating that "no additional minor 
subdivision of the property will be allowed" and that "any 
further subdivision must comply with the major development 
review process". 
(14) A note on the plat stating:  
 The owners of property within Eastern Summit 
County recognize the importance of agricultural 
lands and operations and small rural business 
enterprises. It is recognized that agricultural 
lands and operations and rural business 
enterprises have unique operating 
characteristics that must be respected. (Owners 
of each lot platted in this subdivision/the owner 
of the residence constructed upon this lot) 
have/has been given notice and recognizes that 
there are active agriculture lands and operations 
and rural business enterprises within Eastern  
 
 
 11-4-8 
 Summit County and acknowledge(s) and 
accept(s) that, so long as such lands and 
operations exist, there may be dust, noise, odor, 
prolonged work hours, use of roadways for the 
purposes of herding/moving animals, and other 
attributes associated with normal agricultural 
operations and rural businesses.  
(15) A note on the plat stating:  
 Water has not been approved for this site. It 
shall be the responsibility of each lot owner to 
demonstrate that water of adequate quantity is 
available for each lot prior to the issuance of a 
building permit. This shall be accomplished with 
a memorandum of decision from the state 
engineer for a private well or a written 
commitment from a municipality or private 
company. 
                
(16) A note on the plat stating:  
 Septic or sewerage has not been approved for 
this site. The property owner shall demonstrate 
that the property can adequately support a septic 
system per state/county requirements or has 
access to an operational, approved sewer 
system prior to the issuance of a building permit 
though an approval letter from the County Health 
Department.  
 E.   Review Procedure:  
1. Sketch Plan:  
a. Applications for a minor subdivision will be processed as quickly as 
possible once adequate information is submitted.   
b. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall review the 
sketch plan and identify relevant issues for the applicant to address 
with the final plat application and any deficiencies of information in 
the application.  The sketch plan shall not constitute an application 
for development approval.  
2. Final Plat:  
a. The applicant shall submit an application containing all of the 
information required in Subsection 02 of this Section.  The CDD or  
 
 
11-4-8 
11-4-9 
 designated planning staff member shall secure input regarding the 
proposed development from all affected agencies and service 
providers. Upon receiving such information, the CDD or designated 
planning staff member shall prepare a report identifying issues and 
concerns related to the proposal.  
b. After completion of the report identifying issues and concerns 
related to the project for the Planning Commission, the CDD or 
designated planning staff member shall schedule a public hearing 
before the Planning Commission as soon as practicable.   
c. After hearing public comment, reviewing the project, comments 
from service providers, and the recommendation from the CDD or 
designated planning staff member, the Planning Commission shall 
make a recommendation to the CDD for approval, approval with 
conditions, or denial of the application.  
d. Once the CDD approves the final plat and all applicable 
signatures are obtained, the County Attorney will review the 
preliminary Title Report for acceptability.  
e. Upon approval of the County Attorney and once all required 
signatures are obtained, the detailed final plat shall be recorded in 
the records of the County Recorder.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
11-4-9: CLUSTER BONUS/AGRICULTURAL PRESERVATION  
  SUBDIVISION REVIEW: 
 
A. The purpose of this section is to give property owners an option for development 
that will reduce county infrastructure and service costs, minimize the visual 
impact of development to the community, reduce access points on county roads, 
and preserve agriculture lands and open space.  In exchange, a property owner 
can receive an increase in the number of lots otherwise allowed.  The density 
bonus is intended as an incentive to a property owner in exchange for the above 
public benefits.  This option is intended to promote a pattern of development that 
is most likely to be consistent with the underlying community values and to 
encourage the preservation of agricultural lands.  
B. Applicability:  The Cluster Bonus/Agricultural Preservation Subdivision review 
process can be utilized to create up to two (2) times the number of lots that would 
be otherwise be allowed based upon the base density of the parcel if at least 
eighty percent (80%) of the entire parcel under consideration is designated as 
protected for agricultural use, or three (3) times the number of lots that would 
otherwise be allowed based upon the density of the parcel if at least ninety 
percent (90%) of the entire parcel under consideration is designated as protected 
for agricultural use.  Only density derived from the AP zone will be allowed to 
qualify for the bonus provisions of this section. If a parcel contains property in the 
HC zone, the density derived from that area will not qualify for the bonus but can  
 
 
11-4-9 
 be added to the subdivision.  The specific number is directly related to specific 
parcel/lot size.  To qualify for a Cluster Bonus/Agricultural Preservation 
Subdivision, the parcel shall have been a lawfully created lot of record that is not 
within an existing platted subdivision.  Once a lot has been created by this 
process, it is then no longer eligible for further subdivision.  
C. Criteria for Approval:  Before an application for a cluster bonus/agricultural 
preservation incentive subdivision is approved, it shall conform to the 
following criteria:  
1. Only property in the AP zone will be eligible for the bonus provisions of 
this section, but the density should be placed in the most appropriate 
location based on a site specific agricultural plan, regardless of the 
zoning designation.  
2. The parcel of land identified in the application is actively used for 
agriculture purposes, as defined in this Title.  
3. All new lots created shall be clustered to the greatest extent possible 
and practical and shall be placed in locations that are most suitable to 
allow and enhance the continued agricultural use of the property.  
4. At a minimum, there shall be a note placed on the plat and a deed 
restriction applied to each parcel involved in the subdivision regarding 
the area to be preserved for agricultural purposes, which shall include 
the following language:  
This agricultural parcel was subdivided and developed as a cluster 
bonus/agricultural preservation subdivision.  An increase in density for the 
development of residential lots numbered to was allowed in exchange for 
the preservation of the active and productive agricultural lands shown on 
the plat. The preserved area shall continue to be used solely for 
agricultural and open space purposes.  Additional development shall not 
be permitted, except for uses customarily associated with the agricultural 
use of the property.  
 
The preferable method of preserving land for agricultural use is to place a 
conservation easement on the property. The agricultural preservation area 
may be shown as one large agricultural parcel, or may be split into the 
subdivision lots so long as there are adequate restrictions on the 
agricultural preservation area for it to continue to function as a contiguous 
agricultural use.  
5.   Access to all new lots shall be consolidated to the greatest extent 
practicable and reasonable.  
6.  Each lot shall have legal access through a recorded right of way or 
easement. Access to the property from a public road must be granted by  
 
 
11-4-9 
 the state or county, whichever is appropriate.  
7. Adequate water shall remain on site to serve the culinary needs of the 
proposed homes and the irrigation needs of the agricultural use of the 
parcel.  
8. The project must comply with the Development Evaluation Standards 
provided in Chapter 2 of this Title.  
9. The project must comply with the Infrastructure Standards provided in 
Chapter 6 of this Title.  
10. The minimum lot size will be three-fourths (3/4) acre unless smaller lots 
are deemed more appropriate to preserve the agricultural uses on the 
property and are approved by the Health Department. (Ord. 481, 3-1-
2004)  
 
D. Submission Requirements:  An application for the Cluster Bonus/Agricultural 
Preservation Subdivision of property approval shall not be accepted as complete 
unless such application contains the information set forth herein; provided, 
however, that the CDD or designated planning staff member may request, and 
the applicant shall submit, such additional information as may be needed to 
ascertain whether such application conforms to the requirements of this Title.  
The CDD or designated planning staff member may also determine that due to 
the nature of the parcel and of the subdivision proposed, some of the submission 
requirements can be waived in an effort to simplify the application process.  (Ord. 
481, 3-12004; amd. 2004 Code       
1. Sketch Plan:  Prior to submitting a formal application for development 
review, an applicant shall submit a sketch plan, which shall be prepared in 
pen or pencil, and shall be drawn to a convenient scale of not more than 
one hundred feet to an inch (1" = 100'), and shall show the following 
information:  
a.   The creation date of the parcel(s) to be subdivided in 
accordance with the definition of a "lot of record", as 
defined in Appendix A of this Title.  
b.  The name of the subdivision. This name shall not 
duplicate the name of any plat previously recorded.  
c.   Name and address, including telephone number, of the 
legal owner, and citation of last instrument conveying title 
to each parcel of property involved in the proposed 
subdivision, giving grantor, grantee, date, and land 
records reference.  
 
 
 
11-4-9 
d.   Legal description and location of property, including 
citation of any existing legal rights of way, irrigation 
ditches, or easements affecting the property; and existing 
covenants on the property, if any.  
e.   The approximate location, dimensions, and areas of all 
proposed or existing lots, existing easements, burial 
grounds, railroad rights-of-way, watercourses, and names 
of all existing streets or other public roads adjacent to the 
proposed lots. 
f.  A delineation of environmentally sensitive areas including, 
but not limited to, wetlands, and slopes exceeding thirty 
percent (30%), and ridgelines.  
g.   Identification of the means for providing water supply, 
power, sanitary sewage systems, collection and discharge 
of surface water drainage, and fire protection, including an 
analysis of the feasibility of connecting to a centralized 
sewer disposal or water systems if requested.  
 
h.   All areas within and adjacent to the project, including areas 
separated by a  street, highway, road, right-of-way, railroad line, or 
stream or watercourse, under common ownership, shall be 
identified in the sketch plan.  
i.   A site specific agricultural plan shall be required to be 
submitted at the time of sketch plan.  The purpose of this 
study will be to identify the significant features and 
characteristics that make the property viable for 
agricultural use.  Development should be planned in such 
a way as to preserve or enhance the agricultural use of 
the property.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
j.   All contiguous property under one ownership shall be 
planned in a unified and comprehensive fashion and shall 
be included in an application for subdivision consideration 
and approval.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004; amd. 2004 Code)  
2.   Final Plat:  An application for final plat approval shall be submitted with a 
competed final subdivision plat application form.  The application shall also 
include the following:  
a.   Preliminary title report covering all property located within 
the subdivision.  The report shall be prepared or be 
updated to within thirty (30) days of the date of recording 
the subdivision plat. 
 
 
 
11-4-9 
b.   Approval of the power company on its ability to provide 
service.  
c.   An endorsement from the County Health Department that 
on site and off site impacts of septic system development 
can be mitigated and its recommended mitigation 
measures.  
d.  Approval of the local fire protection district and its 
recommended mitigation measures.  
e.   Approval of the County Department of Public Works or the 
Utah Department of Transportation for curb cuts and other 
roadway improvement requirements necessitated by the 
proposed development.  
f.   Approval of the County Sheriff's Department.  
g.   A detailed final plat that incorporates the following.  The 
final pIat shall be prepared by a licensed land surveyor on 
reproducible Mylar at scale not more than one inch equals 
one hundred feet (1”=100’).  The size shall be twenty four 
inches by thirty six inches (24” x 36”). 
(1) The locations, dimensions, and areas of all proposed lots. 
(2) Indication of the use of each lot (single-family, open space, 
agricultural, etc.  
(3)   The date of the plat, approximate true north point, scale, title 
of the subdivision, and the name of the land surveyor.  
(4)   The location and dimensions of all boundary lines of the 
property (expressed in feet and decimals of a foot), water 
bodies, streams, drainage ditches, existing streets, 
easements, alleys, and other public ways; and building 
envelopes, if necessary.  
(5)    All monuments erected, corners, and other points 
established in the field in their proper places.  The material 
of which the monuments, corners, or other points are made 
shall be noted at the representation thereof or by legend; 
except, that lot corners need not be shown.  The legend for 
metal monuments shall indicate the kind of metal and the 
diameter, length, and weight per lineal foot of the 
monuments. 
(6)    Lots shall be consecutively numbered or lettered in  
 
 
11-4-9 
 alphabetical order with addresses, approved by the county, 
for each lot.  
(7)    A notation and explanation of drainage easements, site 
easements, and reservations, if any; and endorsement of 
the owner.  
(8)    Notation of any self-imposed and other restrictions or 
requirements of service providers and the Community 
Development Director. 
(9)   Signature blocks for the County Health Department, County 
Recorder, Planning Commission, CDD, and County 
Engineer.  
(10)    Endorsement on the plat by every person having a security 
interest in the subdivision property that he is subordinating 
his liens to all covenants, servitude and easements imposed 
on the property, and all conditions of subdivision approval 
imposed by the county.  
(11)    A statement certifying that all lots within the proposed 
subdivision are buildable, and that any further subdivision of 
such lots, whether by deed, bequest, divorce decree, or 
other recorded instrument shall not result in a buildable lot.  
(12)    A note on the plat stating:  
All lots within this subdivision must meet aIl building permit 
requirements at the time of building permit issuance.  
 
(13) A note on the plat stating that no minor subdivision of the 
property will be allowed and that any further subdivision must 
comply with the major development review process. 
 
(14)   A note on the plat stating:  
 
The owners of property within Eastern Summit 
County recognize the importance of agricultural 
lands and operations and small rural business 
enterprises. It is recognized that agricultural 
lands and operations and rural business 
enterprises have unique operating 
characteristics that must be respected.  
(Owners of each lot platted in this  
subdivision/the owner of the residence  
constructed upon this lot) have/has been given 
notice and recognizes that there are active 
agricultural lands and operations and rural  
 
 
11-4-9 
 
business enterprises within Eastern Summit 
County and acknowledge(s) and accept(s) that, 
so long as such lands and operations exist, 
there may be dust, noise, odor, prolonged work 
hours, use of roadways for the purposes of  
herding/moving animals, and other attributes 
associated with normal agricultural operations 
and rural businesses.  
(15)   A note on the plat stating:  
Water has not been approved for this site. It shall be the 
responsibility of each lot owner to demonstrate that water of 
adequate quantity is available for each lot prior to the 
issuance of a building permit.  This shall be accomplished 
with a memorandum of decision from the state engineer for a 
private well or a written commitment from a municipality or 
private service company.  
(16)   A note on the plat stating:  
Septic or sewerage has not been approved for this site. The 
property owner shall demonstrate that the property can 
adequately support a septic system per state/county 
requirements or has access to an operational, approved 
sewer system prior to the issuance of a building permit 
though an approval letter from the County Health 
Department.  
E. Review Procedure:   
 
1. Sketch Plan: The CDD or designated planning staff member shall review 
the sketch plan and identify relevant issues for the applicant to address 
with the final plat application and any deficiencies of information in the 
application.  The sketch plan shall not constitute an application for 
development approval.  
2. Final Plat:  
a.   The applicant shall submit an application containing all of the 
information required in Subsection 02 of this Section.  The CDD or 
designated planning staff member shall secure input regarding the 
proposed development from all affected agencies and service 
providers. Upon receiving such information, the CDD or designated 
planning staff member shall prepare a report identifying issues and 
concerns related to the proposal.  
b.   After completion of the report identifying issues and concerns 
related to the project for the Planning Commission, the CDD or 
designated planning staff member shall schedule a public hearing 
before the Planning Commission as soon as practicable.   
 
 
11-4-9 
11-4-10 
c.   After hearing public comment, reviewing the project, comments 
from service providers, and the recommendation from the CDD or 
designated planning staff member, the Planning Commission shall 
make a recommendation to the CDD for approval, approval with 
conditions, or denial of the application.  
d.  Once the CDD approves the final plat and all applicable 
signatures are obtained, the County Attorney will review the 
preliminary Title Report for acceptability.  
e.   Upon approval of the County Attorney and once all required 
signatures are obtained, the detailed final plat shall be recorded in 
the records of the County Recorder.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
 
11-4-10: MAJOR DEVELOPMENT REVIEW PROCESS:  
 
A.   Purpose:  The major development review process shall serve as a procedure to 
ensure that all significant development, due to its size, type, and/or location, 
protects actively farmed and ranched lands, natural resources, and open space; 
is appropriately clustered; consolidates access; and incorporates appropriate 
infrastructure and design standards based on location and proximity to existing 
county and municipal infrastructure and service areas.  It is an integrated site 
layout and subdivision process and is, therefore, applicable to residential, 
commercial, and industrial development.  
 
B.   Applicability:  The major development review process shall be used to review all 
development, regardless of the zone district within which it is proposed, that is 
not eligible for consideration under the minor subdivision of lands or Cluster 
Bonus/Agricultural Preservation subdivision provisions of this Title.  All specially 
planned areas shall be reviewed in accordance with this procedure.  
C. Criteria for Approval:  Before an application being considered under the 
terms of this section can be approved, including a Specially Planned Area 
plan, the application shall conform to the following criteria:  
1.   All aspects of the specific proposal shall be in compliance with and 
further the goals and objectives of the General Plan.  
2.  All aspects of the specific proposal shall be in compliance with 
the Development Evaluation Standards provided in Chapter 2 of 
this Title.  
3.   The project, unless specifically involving a Specially Planned Area, shall 
comply with all zoning requirements described in Chapter 3 of this Title.  
4.   The project shall comply with the Infrastructure Standards in Chapter 6 of  
 
 
          11-4-10 
 this Title.  
5.   All new lots created shall be clustered to the greatest extent possible and 
practicable, or in a manner compatible with the objectives of the General 
Plan. 
 
6.   The proposal shall ensure orderly growth within Eastern Summit County.  
7.   The proposal shall protect life and property from natural or manmade 
hazards.  
8.   The proposal shall prevent harm to neighboring properties and 
lands, including nuisances.  
9.   Development that will adversely affect the rural, small town character of 
Eastern Summit County in a significant manner is not appropriate and 
shall not be approved.  
10.   The proposal shall not adversely affect the overall safety, health, and 
general welfare of the public.  
D. Submission Requirements:  An application for major development approval shall 
not be accepted as complete unless such application contains the information set 
forth herein.  The CDD or designated planning staff member may request and the 
applicant shall submit such additional information as may be needed to ascertain 
whether such application conforms to the requirements of this title.  The CDD or 
designated planning staff member has the discretion to waive application 
requirements due to hardship, exceptional circumstances, or non-applicability on 
a case by case basis.  
 
1.   Sketch Plan:  Prior to submitting a formal application for development 
review, an applicant shall submit a sketch plan, which shall contain 
enough information in graphic and text form to adequately describe the 
applicant's intentions with regard to the proposed development. Sketch 
plans shall be prepared in pen or pencil and shall be drawn to a 
convenient scale of not more than one hundred feet to an inch (1" = 1 00'), 
unless otherwise approved by the county. The sketch plan shall include 
the following:  
a.   The creation date of the parcel(s) to be subdivided in accordance 
with the definition of a "lot of record", as defined in Appendix A of 
this Title.  
b.   The name of the subdivision. This name shall not duplicate the 
name of any plat previously recorded.  
c.   Name and address, including telephone number, of legal owner, 
and citation of last instrument conveying title to each parcel of  
 
 
11-4-10 
 property involved in the proposed subdivision, giving grantor, 
grantee, date, and land records reference.  
d.   Legal description and location of property, including citation of any 
existing legal rights-of-way, irrigation ditches, or easements 
affecting the property; and existing covenants on the property, if 
any.  
e.   The approximate location, dimensions, and areas of all proposed 
or existing lots/structures, existing easements, burial grounds, 
railroad rights-of-way, watercourses, and names of existing streets 
or other public roads adjacent to the proposed lots.  
f.   A delineation of environmentally sensitive areas identified in 
Chapter 2 of this Title, including, but not limited to, wetlands, 
slopes exceeding thirty percent (30%), and ridgelines. 
 
g.   Identification of the means for providing water supply, power, 
sanitary sewage systems, collection and discharge of 
surface water drainage, and fire protection.  
 
h.   All areas within and adjacent to the project, including areas 
separated by a street, highway, road, right-of-way, railroad 
line, or stream or watercourse, under common ownership, 
shall be identified in the sketch plan.  
 
i.   If the application is for a Specially Planned Area plan review, 
the sketch plan also shall include a statement describing how 
the proposed development will further the goals and 
objectives of the General Plan and sufficient information to 
demonstrate the general design philosophy proposed for the 
project.  
2. Preliminary Plan:  A completed preliminary plan application form shall be 
submitted.  In addition to the requirements in Subsection 01 of this 
Section, an application for preliminary plan also shall include the following 
information:  A graphic layout (drawn to scale not smaller than 1 inch 
equals 100 feet, unless otherwise approved by the county) showing the 
following:  
a.  A title block stating the name of the proposed development; 
the type of development; the name, address, and phone 
number of the legal owner of property, and the professional 
person(s) responsible for the design and survey; and a 
graphic and written scale and date of preparation. 
b.   Location of true north and a vicinity map with township, range, 
and section lines, including sufficient detail to show the  
 
 
11-4-10 
 location of the proposed development. 
c.   Surveyed boundaries of the development and total acreage,  
 with the names of all adjacent property owners shown. 
d.   Topographic contour intervals no greater than five feet (5') for 
the specific portion of the property to be developed or altered 
in any fashion, unless otherwise stipulated by the CDD or 
designated planning staff member.  
e.   A slope analysis showing grades ranging from zero percent to 
eight percent (0%-8%), eight percent to fifteen percent (8%-
15%), fifteen percent to thirty percent (15%-30%), and over 
thirty percent (30%). 
f.   Any past, existing, or proposed geologic or natural hazards in 
the area, i.e., mud slides, flooding, high water table, erosion, 
slipping, forest fires, etc. 
g.   The location of wetlands, streams and flood drainage 
channels, with all 100-year floodplains delineated. 
h.   The location of existing structures, public utility easements, 
railroads, power lines, culverts, drain pipes, ridgelines, water 
and sewer lines, wells and springs on or near the property.  
i.   When it is contemplated that services will be provided by 
special districts or companies, letters of intent to provide 
service from such entities shall accompany the application. 
 
j.   The location of any active and productive agricultural land and 
operations and irrigation ditches and systems that affect the 
agricultural lands, as identified by the Agriculture Protection 
Advisory Board. 
 
k.   Existing vegetation. 
 
I.   The location of and impact on any critical wildlife habitat, 
including birthing areas, critical winter range, and migration 
corridors. 
 
m.   The proposed development layout, including lots, parcels, 
buildings, setback lines, roads, utilities, fire hydrants and 
water storage systems where applicable, and open space, and 
architectural and landscape concepts when applicable. 
 
n.   The proposed grading and drainage plan and landscape and  
 
 
11-4-10 
 
 maintenance plan. 
 
o.   The location and designation of public and private roads. 
 
p.   A written statement describing the consequences the 
proposed development will have on population, the economic 
structure of the community, traffic, government services, 
surrounding property, and the tax structure.  
3.   Final Plan: In addition to the requirements of Subsections 01 and 02 of this 
Section, an application for final plan shall conform to the following:  
a.   The final plan shall be prepared by a licensed land surveyor 
on a reproducible Mylar that is twenty four inches by thirty six 
inches (24" x 36") in size and at a convenient scale of not 
more than one inch equals one hundred feet (1" = 100'), unless 
otherwise approved by the CDD or designated planning staff 
member. 
b.   The locations, dimensions, and areas of all proposed 
lots/development. 
c.   Indication of the use of any lot (single-family, open space, 
agricultural). 
d.   The date of the plan, approximate true north point, scale, and 
title of the subdivision/development, and the name of the land 
surveyor. 
e.   The general location and dimensions of all boundary lines of 
the property (expressed in feet and decimals of a foot); water 
bodies, streams, and other pertinent features such as 
swamps, railroads, buildings, parks, cemeteries, drainage 
ditches, and bridges; existing streets and easements, alleys, 
and other public ways; and building envelopes, if necessary, 
and setback lines. 
f.   A preliminary title report covering all property located within 
the subdivision/development. The report shall be prepared or 
be updated to within thirty (30) days of the date of recording of 
the subdivision plat or development plan. 
 
g.   Lots shall be consecutively numbered or lettered in alphabetical 
order with addresses, approved by the county, for each lot. 
 
 h.   A notation and explanation of drainage easements, site easements, 
 and reservations, if any; and endorsement of the owner. 
 
 
 
11-4-10 
 
i.   Notation of any self-imposed restrictions, and locations of any 
building lines proposed to be established in this manner, if 
required by the CDD or designated planning staff member in 
accordance with this Title. 
 
j.   Signature blocks for the County Recorder, Planning 
Commission, County Manager, County Health Department, 
County Engineer, County Attorney, County Sheriff, fire district, 
and power company. 
 
k.   Endorsement on the plan by every person having a security 
interest in the property that he is subordinating his liens to all 
covenants, servitude and easements imposed on the property 
 and all conditions of development approval imposed by the 
county. 
 
I.   All monuments erected, corners, and other points established 
in the field in their proper places.  The material of which the 
monuments, corners, or other points are made shall be noted 
at the representation thereof or by legend; except, that lot 
corners need not be shown.  The legend for metal monuments 
shall indicate the kind of metal and the diameter, length, and 
weight per lineal foot of the monuments. 
 
m.   A note on the plan stating:  
 
Further subdivision of such lots, whether by deed, bequest, divorce 
decree, or other recorded instrument, shall not result in a buildable 
lot until the same has been approved in accordance with the 
Eastern Summit County Development Code. 
 
n.   A note on the plan stating: 
 
All lots/structures within this development must meet aIl building 
permit requirements at the time of building permit issuance. 
 
o.   All other applicable plan notes necessary to meet the 
requirements of this Title.  
E.   Review Procedure Not Involving a Specially Planned Area:  
1.   Sketch Plan:  The CDD or designated planning staff member shall review 
the sketch plan and identify relevant issues for the applicant to address 
and any deficiencies of information that will be required in a formal 
development application.  A sketch plan does not constitute an application 
for development approval.  
2.   Preliminary Plan:  The applicant shall submit a complete application.  The 
CDD or designated planning staff member shall review the application 
and make findings and recommendations.  The Planning Commission 
shall review the application and the staff report and make a 
recommendation to the County Manager for approval, approval with  
 
 
11-4-10 
 conditions, or denial after a public hearing.  The County Manager shall 
review the application, staff report, and Planning Commission findings 
and recommendations and thereafter approve, approve with conditions, or 
deny the proposal.  
3.   Final Plan:  The applicant shall submit an application for final plan 
approval, identifying how any conditions of preliminary approval will be 
addressed.  The CDD or designated planning staff member shall review 
the application and prepare a report.  The County Manager shall review 
the application and staff report and approve, approve with conditions, or 
deny the proposal. 
4.   Remand to Planning Commission:  If the County Manager determines that 
significant changes have been made to the application between 
preliminary and final plan review, the County Manager may remand the 
application to the Planning Commission for additional review and 
comment.  
5.   Decision:  Once the County Manager approves the final plat and all 
applicable signatures are obtained, the County Attorney will review the 
preliminary Title Report for acceptability.  
6.   Upon approval of the County Attorney and once all required signatures are 
obtained, the detailed final plat shall be recorded in the records of the 
County Recorder.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
7.  Effect of Approval:  Upon approval, it shall constitute a vested right in the 
specific terms and proposals for a period of one (1) year from the date of 
the approval, or longer when specifically authorized by the County 
Manager.  
F.   Review Procedure Involving a Specially Planned Area (SPA):  
1.  Pre-application Sketch Plan:  The CDD or designated planning staff 
member shall review the pre-application sketch plan and identify 
relevant issues and deficiencies of information for the applicant to 
address when submitting his or her application.  
2.   SPA Application:  The applicant shall submit a complete application for a 
change in zoning. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall 
review the application and make findings and recommendations.  The 
Planning Commission shall review the application and the staff report and 
make a recommendation to the County Council for approval, approval with 
conditions, or denial after a public hearing.  The County Council shall 
review the application, staff report, and Planning Commission findings and 
recommendations.  After conducting a public hearing, the County Council 
shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the request for the 
creation of an SPA zone district. The County Council’s approval shall be in 
the form of an ordinance.  
 
 
11-4-10 
3.   Implementation of SPA: The applicant shall submit a complete application 
for a development agreement identifying how the SPA will be 
implemented.  The CDD or designated planning staff member shall review 
the application for the development agreement and prepare a report.  The 
Planning Commission shall review the application and staff report and 
make a recommendation to the County Council.  After conducting a public 
hearing, the County Council shall approve, approve with conditions, or 
deny the development agreement.  The County Council approval shall be 
in the form of an ordinance.  The ordinance shall include the development 
agreement between the developer and the county, including text, maps, 
and all terms and conditions associated with the development of the 
property within the specially planned area. 
 
4.   Recordation:  Upon approval of the County Attorney and once all required 
signatures are obtained; the development agreement shall be recorded in 
the records of the County Recorder.  
G.   Modifications:  
1.   Major Development Modification:  A modification of a previously approved 
major development plan may be approved by the Planning Commission.  
Upon receiving a request for a modification, the CDD or designated 
planning staff member shall schedule the matter at a regular meeting as 
soon thereafter as may be practicable.  The Planning Commission may 
hold a public hearing if it determines that the request is substantially 
inconsistent with the original approval.  After the hearing, the Planning 
Commission may approve, approve with conditions, or deny the 
modification.  The Planning Commission may approve the request, without 
a public hearing, if it determines that the modification will not render the 
project substantially inconsistent with the original approval.  
2.   Specially Planned Area Plan Modification:  
a.  Upon receiving a request for a modification to a specially 
planned area plan, the CDD or designated planning staff 
member shall schedule the matter at a regular meeting of the 
Planning Commission as soon thereafter as may be practicable.  
The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing and review 
the recommendations of the CDD or designated planning staff 
member.  The Planning Commission shall review the proposed 
modification and make a recommendation for approval, approval 
with conditions, or denial to the County Council.  
b.   The County Council shall hold a public hearing on the proposed 
modification.  After receiving public input, and reviewing the 
recommendation of the Planning Commission and CDD or 
designated planning staff member, the County Council shall  
 
 
 
11-4-10 
11-4-11 
 approve, approve with conditions, or deny the modification.  
Approval shall be in the form of an ordinance amending the original 
approved ordinance.  
c.   Before approving the modification, both the Planning 
Commission and the County Council must find:  
(1)   That circumstances relevant to the request have changed 
since, or were unknown at the time, the original Specially  
    Planned Area plan was approved; 
(2)  The modification is generally consistent with the efficient 
development and preservation of the entire Specially 
Planned Area plan and does not affect in a substantially 
adverse manner either the enjoyment of land abutting upon 
or in the general vicinity of the property in question, and that 
the public health, safety, and general welfare are not 
adversely impaired by the modification.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-
2004)  
11-4-11: FINAL SITE PLAN REVIEW: 
 
A. Information Required:  A detailed final site plan is required as determined by the 
CDD or designated planning staff member where a final subdivision plat is not 
required. Site plans, in addition to the requirements of Subsection B of this 
Section, shall contain the following information: 
 
1. A vicinity map at a scale of not less than one inch equals one thousand 
feet (1" = 1,000'). 
 
2.  A legal description and accompanying map exhibit of the exterior 
boundaries of the development area giving lengths and bearings of the 
boundary lines at the scale of one inch equals one hundred feet 
(1" = 100'), showing the location and type of boundary evidenced. Such 
information should be provided from the recorded plats. The legal 
description shall include the following data: 
 
a.  Metes and bounds of all property lines; 
 
(1)  Total area of property; 
 
(2)  North scale and north arrow; and 
 
b. Name and route numbers of boundary roads and the width of 
existing rights-of-way. 
 
 
 
11-4-11 
 
3.  Existing topography with maximum contour intervals of two feet (2'), 
except where existing ground is on a slope of less than two percent (2%), 
then either one foot (1') contour intervals or spot elevation shall be 
provided where necessary. 
 
4.  A final detailed land use plan at a scale of one inch equals one hundred 
feet (1" = 100') showing: 
 
a. The location and arrangement of all proposed uses, including  
 building area. 
           
b.  The height and number of floors of all buildings, other than 
single-family dwellings, both above and below or partially below the 
finished grade. 
 
c.  A cross section elevation plan depicting all buildings, structures, 
monuments, and other significant natural and manmade features of 
the proposed development. 
 
d. The yard dimensions from the development boundaries and 
adjacent roads and alleys. 
 
e. The traffic and the pedestrian circulation system, including the 
location and width of all roads, driveways, entrances to parking 
areas and parking structures, trails, walkways and bicycle paths. 
 
f.  Off road parking and loading areas and structures, and landscaping 
for parking areas. 
 
g.  Greenbelt and other active recreation space areas, together with 
proposed private recreational areas, specifying the proposed 
improvement of all such areas, and delineating those areas 
proposed for specific types of recreational facilities. 
 
h.  Architectural features of typical proposed structures, including 
lighting fixtures, signs and landscaping. 
 
i.  A plan or statement showing the location and design of all 
screening measures and indicating the type and height of such 
screening. 
 
j.  When the development is to be constructed in stages or units, a 
final sequence of development schedule showing the order of 
construction of such stages or units, and approximate completion 
date for the construction of each stage or unit. 
 
 
11-4-11 
 
k.  A copy of all covenants, restrictions and conditions pertaining to the 
use, maintenance and operation of private open space areas. 
 
l.  All existing monuments found during the course of the survey 
(including a physical description such as "brass cap"). 
 
m.  All existing easements or rights-of-way, including those contiguous 
to the platted area, their nature, width, and the book and page 
number of their recording in the County records. 
 
n.  All rights-of-way and easements and trails (including open space)  
 created by the subdivision with their boundary, bearings, lengths, 
widths, name, number or purpose. For curved boundaries, the 
curve radius, central angle and length of arc shall be given. 
 
o.  A final statement in tabular form which sets forth the following data, 
when such data is applicable to a given development plan: 
 
(1)  The area of all parcels created, total acreage, total acreage 
in lots, and total acreage in roads or other dedicated parcels; 
 
(2)  Total number of dwelling units, by development phase; 
 
(3)  Residential density and units per acre; 
 
(4)  Total floor area and floor area ratio for each type of use; 
 
(5)  Total area in open space and length of trails; 
 
(6) Total area in developed recreational open space; and 
 
(7)  Total number of off road parking and loading spaces. 
 
B.  Site Plan Contents: In addition to the requirements of Subsection A of this 
Section, the final site plan shall conform to current surveying practice and shall 
show the following information: 
 
1.  A title block giving the subdivision's name and the quarter-quarter section, 
section, township, range, principal meridian, and county of its location. 
 
2.  A notation of any adjoining plats or certificates of survey and  titles thereto. 
 
3.  All monuments set during the course of the survey (including a physical 
description such as "rebar driven to depth of..."), including appropriate 
witness monuments. 
 
 
 
 
11-4-11 
 
4. The owner's certificate of consent, including a legal description of the 
subdivision's boundaries and the dedication of public ways or spaces. This 
certificate shall be signed, dated and notarized. 
 
5.  The owner's certificate should include a reference to any covenants that 
may be declared and blanks where the County Recorder may enter the 
book and page number of their recording. 
 
6.  A certificate of consent from any and all mortgagors, lien holders, or 
others with a real property interest in the subdivision. These certificates  
 shall be signed, dated and notarized. 
 
7.  A certificate showing the name and registration number of the surveyor 
responsible for making the survey. This certificate shall be signed and 
dated. 
 
8.  Signature blocks prepared for the dated signatures of the Chairpersons of 
the Planning Commission, County Manager, County Recorder, County 
Engineer, County Attorney, Rocky Mountain Power, Questar Gas (when 
applicable) and applicable Fire District. A signature block shall also be 
provided for the County Assessor indicating that all taxes, interest and 
penalties owing to the land have been paid. 
 
C.  Site Plan Materials, Size, Copies: Plans may be prepared on linen or on a stable 
base polyester film (Mylar). Plans may be either eighteen inches by twenty four 
inches (18” x 24”), or twenty four inches by thirty six inches (24” x 36”). Three (3) 
paper copies shall be submitted along with the linen or film copy. 
 
D.  Multiple Sheets: Multiple sheet plans may be used. All sheets shall be numbered 
and referenced to an index, and all required certificates shall appear on a single 
sheet (along with the index and vicinity maps). (Ord. 323, 3-9-1998) 
 
E. Review Procedure: 
 
1. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall review the application 
and prepare a staff report to the Planning Commission and make findings 
and recommendations. The Planning Commission shall review the 
application and staff report and make a recommendation to the County 
Manager for approval, approval with conditions, or denial after a public 
hearing. 
 
2. The County Manager shall review the application, staff report, and  
 
 Planning Commission findings and recommendations and thereafter 
 approve, approve with conditions, or deny the proposal. 
 
 
11-4-11 
11-4-12 
 
3. Once the County Manager approves the application, all applicable 
signatures shall be obtained on the final site plan. The detailed final site 
plan and preliminary title report shall be reviewed by the County Attorney 
for acceptability. 
 
4. Upon approval of the County Attorney, and once all required signatures 
are obtained, the detailed final site plan shall be recorded in the records of 
the County Recorder. 
11-4-12: CONDITIONAL USE REVIEW:  
A.   Purpose:  It is recognized that there are special uses which, because of their 
unique character and unusual impact upon the use and enjoyment of 
neighboring properties, cannot be properly classified in any particular zone  
district(s) without special review consideration of those impacts upon 
neighboring lands and upon the public need for a particular use at a 
particular location.  These uses, referred to as Conditional Uses, are 
identified in the Chart of Allowed and Conditional Uses in Section 11-3-12 of 
this Title.  Such uses shall only be allowed as Conditional Uses in Section 
11-3-12 of this Title.  Such uses shall only be allowed after special approval 
is granted in accordance with the following criteria and procedures. 
B.   Criteria for Approval:  Before an application for a conditional use is 
approved by the Planning Commission, it shall conform to the following 
criteria:  
1.   The proposed use shall be appropriate in the particular location, taking 
into account the nature of the use, its relationship to surrounding land 
uses and its impact on the natural environment.  
2.   The proposed use shall be in general compliance with the 
Development Evaluations Standards in Chapter 2 of this Title.  
3.   The proposed use will not be in violation of any county, state, or federal 
laws.  
 
4.   The applicant shall present evidence to show approval of the landowner 
for the particular use, unless the land is owned by the applicant and, in 
such case, applicant shall submit proof of ownership.  
5.   The applicant shall demonstrate that it possesses the requisite skills and 
experience to ensure that the particular use will be conducted in a safe 
and orderly manner.  
6.   The use will not adversely affect, in a significant manner, the public 
health, safety, and welfare.  
 
 
11-4-12 
7.   The length and size of the proposed structure must be compatible with 
the residential uses in the area and must also meet the setback 
requirements for the zone in which it is located.  
C.   Review Procedure:  
1.  The applicant shall submit a completed conditional use application form 
and all information deemed necessary and reasonable by the CDD or 
designated planning staff member to permit the county the opportunity to 
conduct a detailed assessment of the impacts of the proposed use.  The 
CDD or designated planning staff member shall review the application 
and shall make findings and recommendations and shall schedule a 
review before the Planning Commission as soon thereafter as may be 
practicable.  
2.   The Planning Commission shall review the application and the staff report.  
After holding a public hearing, the Planning Commission shall approve, 
approve with conditions, or deny the proposed Conditional Use.  
D. Time Limit for Action:  Unless there is substantial action under a Conditional Use 
permit within a maximum period of one year from the date of approval, said 
permit shall be considered null and void.  
E. Mandatory Review Process: Conditional Use Permits are subject to periodic 
reviews by the CDD or designated planning staff member to assess if the 
conditions of approval are being satisfied. If the original conditions associated 
with the Conditional Use Permit are not being satisfied, the Planning Commission 
may commence the Conditional Use Permit revocation process. 
F. Establishment of a Conditional Use Permit. Final approval of a Conditional Use 
Permit shall be in the form of a letter to the applicant specifically identifying each 
condition together with the approved site plan and any other accompanying 
documents determined to be relevant by the CDD or designated planning staff 
member and stamped approved. 
G. Amendments to Conditional Use Permits: 
1. Minor Amendment: A minor amendment is defined as an amendment 
that does not increase the square footage, density, or intensity of a 
previously approved Conditional Use Permit, which may be approved 
administratively. A minor amendment may be commenced by filing a Low 
Impact Permit application and paying the fee for the review thereof. Refer 
to Section 11-4-8 of the Title for detailed submission requirements. 
 2.  Major Amendment: A major amendment is defined as an amendment 
that increases square footage, density, and/or intensity of a previously 
approved Conditional Use Permit. A major amendment may be 
commenced by filing a Conditional Use Permit application and paying the  
 
 
                                  11-4-13 
 fee for the review thereof.  
H.   Adult/Sex-Oriented Facilities:  See Appendix B of this Title for Adult/Sex-Oriented 
Facilities and Businesses requirements.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
 
11-4-13: TEMPORARY USE REVIEW:  
A.   Purpose:  Upon compliance with the provisions of this section, a temporary use 
approval may be granted, upon reasonable conditions necessary for the 
protection and preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare. This Section 
is intended to provide a process and procedure for reviewing and approving, 
approving with conditions, or denying a temporary use, or limited duration activity  
                    
 that will provide an overall benefit to the community for the time frame during 
which it is permitted to exist. The use must be consistent with the intent of the 
General Plan and this Title.  
B.   Criteria for Approval:  Before an application for a Temporary Use is approved by 
the Planning Commission, it shall conform to the following criteria:  
1.  The proposed use shall be appropriate, on a temporary basis, in the 
particular location, taking into account the nature of the use, its 
relationship to surrounding land uses and its impact on the natural 
environment.  
2.   The proposed use shall be in general compliance with the 
Development Evaluations Standards in Chapter 2 of this Title.  
3.   The proposed use will not be in violation of any county, state, and federal 
laws.  
4.   The applicant shall present evidence to show approval of the landowner 
for the particular use, unless the land is owned by the applicant and, in 
such case, the applicant shall submit proof of ownership.  
5.   The applicant shall demonstrate that he possesses the requisite skills 
and experience to ensure that the particular activity will be conducted in a 
safe and orderly manner.  
6.   The site shall be returned to its original condition or, when significant 
disturbance has occurred, to a condition approved by the Planning 
Commission.  
7.   The use shall not adversely affect, in a significant manner, the public 
health, safety, and welfare.  
 
C.  Review Procedure:  
 
 
 
11-4-13 
11-4-14 
 
1.   Short Term Temporary Uses:  
a.   Temporary uses that are intended for a limited duration, not to 
exceed sixteen (16) days in a sixty (60) day period shall be 
considered short term temporary uses. The applicant shall submit a 
completed Temporary Use application form and all information 
deemed necessary and reasonable by the CDD or designated 
planning staff member to permit the county the opportunity to 
conduct a detailed assessment of the impacts of the proposed use.  
The CDD or designated planning staff member shall approve, 
approve with conditions or deny the temporary use application and 
shall communicate the decision to the applicant.  Approval of a 
Temporary Use shall not be considered valid unless a specific 
period of time during which the use may exist and operate 
designated.  The CDD or designated planning staff member may 
consider and approve one extension of a short-term temporary use. 
 
b.   In proposals where the CDD or designated planning staff member 
determines that potential issues may arise, or additional comment 
is needed from the community, a public hearing on the application 
may be scheduled with the Planning Commission.  Following the 
public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a 
recommendation to the CDD regarding an approval, approval with 
conditions or denial of the short term temporary use.  
2.   Long Term Temporary Uses:  The applicant shall submit a completed 
temporary use application form and all information deemed necessary and 
reasonable by the CDD or designated planning staff member to permit the 
county the opportunity to conduct a detailed assessment of the impacts of 
the proposed use.  The Planning Commission shall review the application 
and the staff report. After holding a public hearing, the Planning 
Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the proposed 
Temporary Use.  Approval of a Temporary Use shall not be considered 
valid without a specific designed period of time during which the use may 
exist and operate.  (Ord. 481, 3-1-2004)  
11-4-14: ZONING VARIANCES:  
A.   General:  When, by reason of exceptional narrowness, shallowness, or shape of 
a specific piece of property at the effective date hereof, or by reason of 
exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary and exceptional 
situation or condition of such property, the strict application of area zoning, as it 
pertains to minimum lot size, minimum setbacks, and other specific requirements 
of Chapter 3 of this Title, the Board of Adjustment (“BOA”) may authorize, upon 
an appeal relating to said property, a variance from such strict application so as  
 
 
 
11-4-14 
 to relieve such difficulties or hardship, provided such relief may be granted 
without substantial detriment to the public good and adjacent property owners 
and without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this title. 
B. Standards:  The BOA shall not approve a variance unless it shall make findings, 
based upon the evidence presented to it in each specific case, that all of the 
following provisions apply:  
1.   Literal enforcement of the ordinance would cause an unreasonable 
hardship for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general 
purpose of the land use ordinances;  
2.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not 
generally apply to other properties in the same zone;  
3.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial 
property right possessed by other property in the same zone;  
4.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will not be 
contrary to the public interests; and  
5.   The spirit of the land use ordinance is observed and substantial justice 
done. 
C.  Conditions: In approving a variance, the BOA may require such conditions as will, 
in its judgment, mitigate any harmful effects of the variance and secure 
substantially the purposes of this Title.  
D.  Use Variances Prohibited: The BOA may not grant use variances. 
E.  Review Procedure: 
1. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall review the Board of 
Adjustment application and make preliminary findings as to whether the 
application complies with the standards for approving a variance 
established in this Title. 
2. If applicable, the CDD or designated planning staff member may secure 
input regarding the proposed request from any affected agencies and 
service providers. Upon receiving such information, the CDD or 
designated planning staff member shall prepare a report and make 
findings and recommendations and shall schedule a public hearing before 
the BOA.  
3. The BOA shall review the application and staff report. After conducting a 
public hearing, the BOA shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny 
the proposed request.  
 
 
11-4-14 
11-4-15 
4. No petition for judicial review may be filed unless and until the applicant 
has exhausted all manners or relief and processes as are provided herein 
and in this Title.  
 
11-4-15: SPECIAL EXCEPTIONS: 
 
A. Purpose: Where the County Council finds that an applicant has a unique 
circumstance or equitable claim which makes strict enforcement of the provisions of 
this Title unduly burdensome, it may, after a public hearing, approve special 
exceptions to the zoning provisions of this Title so that substantial justice may be 
done and the public interest secured; provided that the special exception does not 
have the effect of nullifying the intent and purpose of this Title or any provision 
thereof.  
 
B. Criteria for Approval: The County Council shall not approve a special exception 
unless the applicant demonstrates that: 
 
1. The special exception is not detrimental to the public health, safety, and welfare; 
 
2. The intent of the Development Code and General Plan will be met; 
 
3. The applicant does not reasonably qualify for any other equitable processes 
provided through the provisions of this Title; and 
 
4. There are equitable claims or unique circumstances warranting the special 
exception.  
 
C. Submission Requirements: An application for a Special Exception shall not be 
accepted as complete unless such application contains sufficient information in 
graphic and text form to adequately describe the applicant's objective and all 
applicable fees are paid.  
 
D. Review Procedure: 
 
1. If applicable, the CDD or designated planning staff member may obtain input 
regarding the proposed Special Exception from all affected agencies and 
service providers. Upon receiving such information, the CDD or designated 
planning staff member shall prepare a report and make findings and 
recommendations and shall schedule a public hearing before the County 
Council as soon thereafter as may be practicable. 
 
2. The County Council shall review the application and staff report. After 
conducting a public hearing, the County Council shall approve, approve with 
conditions, or deny the Special Exception request.  
          
 
 
11-4-16 
11-4-16: LOW IMPACT PERMIT REVIEW:   
 
A.   Purpose:  The purpose of the Low Impact Permit is to provide a process and 
procedure for reviewing and approving, approving with conditions, or denying a 
Low Impact Use. Upon compliance with the provisions of this Section, a Low 
Impact Use approval may be granted by the CDD or designated planning staff 
member, with reasonable conditions necessary for the protection and 
preservation of the public health, safety, and welfare. 
 
B.   Applicability:  The Low Impact Review Process can be utilized to obtain 
administrative approval for projects determined to be low impact and which are in 
conformance with the Development Evaluation Standards and general 
regulations of the Code and provisions of the General Plan.  An application for 
approval of a Low Impact Permit shall be commenced by filing a sketch plan and 
paying the applicable fee with the Community Development Department.   
 
C.   Review Procedure: 
 
1.    The applicant shall provide a sketch plan and description of the proposed 
project.  The Sketch Plan shall contain enough information, in graphic and 
text form, to adequately describe to the satisfaction of the CDD or 
designated planning staff member the applicant’s intentions with regard to 
use, site layout and compliance with the “General Plan,” the “Code,” and 
any applicable ordinance, development permit, or development 
agreement.   
 
2.   In proposals where the CDD or designated planning staff member 
determines that potential issues may arise or additional comment is 
needed or has been received from the community, a public hearing on the 
application may be scheduled with the Planning Commission.  Following 
the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a 
recommendation to the CDD regarding an approval, approval with 
conditions or denial of the application. 
 
3.   The CDD or designated planning staff member shall determine whether 
the application is sufficient and in compliance with the provisions of the 
Code and the General Plan.  The CDD or designated planning staff  
 member may require the applicant to submit such additional information as 
may be necessary to determine whether the application conforms to the 
requirements of the Code and General Plan.  
 
 4. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall approve, approve 
with conditions or deny the Low Impact Permit application and shall 
communicate the decision to the applicant.  The CDD or designated 
planning staff member may impose all reasonable conditions necessary to 
ensure compliance with the goals, objectives and policies of the General 
Plan and applicable provisions of Chapter 2 of the Code. The CDD or  
  
 
 
11-4-16 
 
 designated planning staff member may also provide written notice of such 
decision to any persons who have requested notice of such decision.  Any 
person aggrieved by such decision may appeal the decision in accordance 
with the provisions of the Code. Oil, gas and steam wells are exempt from 
this provision and are allowed by right according to the standards 
described in Section 11-4-10(F) below. 
  
5.   The Planning Commission shall periodically be provided with a list of the 
Low Impact Permits that have been issued by the CDD or designated 
planning staff member, or as requested. 
 
D.   Qualification for Low Impact Permit.  The following activities or uses qualify for 
Low Impact Permit consideration, unless otherwise permitted in the Code.  Any 
new use or change in use qualifies for a Low Impact Permit and must meet all the 
criteria in 14. (a) through (i) hereunder. 
  
1.  Dwelling unit, one family, in the Commercial Zoning District; 
 
2.  Accessory dwelling unit, only as described in Section 11-6-5 of the Code, 
except in the Highway Corridor (HC), Industrial (I) and Railroad Industrial 
(RI) Zoning Districts; 
 
3.   Accessory buildings and uses to the principal residential dwelling unit or 
subdivision in the Commercial Zoning District, not to exceed 2,000 square 
feet; 
 
4.   Dwelling Unit, single family attached (also referred to as a townhouse) in 
the Highway Corridor (HC) Zoning District;   
 
5.   Agricultural employee dwelling unit, only as described in Section 11-6-5 of 
the Code, except in the Commercial (C), Industrial (I) and Railroad 
Industrial (RI) Zoning Districts; 
 
6. Mobile home with foundation in the Commercial Zoning District; 
 
7.   Utility structures and related facilities in the AG-100 and AG-160 Zoning 
Districts (refer to Section 11-6-7 for conditions); 
           
8.   Wind power generation facilities in the AG-100 and AG-160 Zoning 
Districts; (refer to Section 11-4-10.G for conditions); 
 
9.   Retail commercial establishments in the Commercial Zoning District, not to 
exceed 2,000 square feet; 
 
10.   Service commercial establishments in the Commercial Zoning District, not 
to exceed 2,000 square feet; 
 
 
 
11-4-16 
 
11.   Oil wells, gas wells and steam wells, except in the Highway Corridor (HC), 
Commercial (C) and Railroad Industrial (RI) Zoning Districts  (refer to 
Section 11-4-10.F for conditions); 
 
12.   Open Recreational Uses in the AG-100 and AG-160 Zoning Districts.  
 
13.   Other similar uses and projects not listed but which are similar in nature 
and character as other listed Low Impact uses and projects. 
 
14.   The conversion of an existing building or structure in an Highway Corridor 
(HC), Commercial (C), or Industrial (I) zone district from its current or 
previous use to a new or substantially different type of activity or use, or a 
revision or amendment to an approved development permit, or other minor 
improvements as determined by the CDD or designated planning staff 
member, which: 
 
a.   does not significantly increase vehicular traffic, unless the 
increases are consistent with previously approved plans for 
which appropriate mitigation has been contemplated and 
which has been implemented in an appropriate manner to 
accommodate the proposed amendment. 
 
b.   does not significantly increase the demand for parking; unless the 
increases are consistent with previously approved plans for which 
appropriate mitigation has been contemplated and which has been  
 implemented in an appropriate manner to accommodate the 
proposed amendment. 
 
c.   does not intensify the likelihood of pedestrian and vehicular 
conflicts; 
             
d.   does not create unsightly conditions or impacts to the environment 
including, but not limited to, unscreened storage, and other 
environmental concerns; 
 
e.   does not intensify noise levels or odors; 
 
f.   does not create significant dust and dirt conditions, which cannot be 
adequately mitigated; 
 
g.   does not intensify lighting and glare conditions; 
 
h.   does not create a sudden change in privacy for adjacent property 
owners; 
 
i.   and is generally consistent with the goals and policies of the 
General Plan. 
 
 
 
11-4-16 
 
E. General Criteria.  No Low Impact Permit shall be approved unless the applicant 
demonstrates that 
 
1.   The use is in compliance with the provisions of the General Plan; 
 
2.   The use conforms to all applicable requirements of the Code and state and 
federal regulations; 
 
3.   The use is not detrimental to public health, safety and welfare; 
 
4.   The use is appropriately located with respect to public facilities and 
services;  
 
5.   The use is compatible with the existing neighborhood character and will 
not adversely affect surrounding land uses: 
 
6.   Exterior lighting will be directed downward and not be reflected upon 
adjoining land.  
 
7.   The natural topography, ridgelines, soils, critical areas, watercourses and 
vegetation shall be preserved where possible through careful site planning 
and design of access routes, circulation areas, buildings and other 
structures, parking areas, utilities, drainage facilities and other features. 
 
F. Criteria for oil wells, gas wells and steam wells. A Low Impact Permit application 
shall be reviewed and approved for oil, gas, and steam wells  according to the 
following criteria: 
  
1.   Access to the drill site shall utilize existing roads as much as possible.  
 
2.   Any required grading and associated cut and fill areas shall be re-
vegetated and contoured to maintain existing drainage patterns. 
 
3.   Erosion control best management practices in accordance with County 
Ordinance 381-A shall be applied to all disturbed areas, including roads, 
staging areas and drill site. 
           
4.   The drilling and production operation shall be conducted in such a manner 
as to minimize, so far as practicable, dust, noise, vibration, and odors. 
 
5.   All waste shall be disposed of in such a manner as to comply with the air 
and water quality regulations of state and county ordinances. 
 
6.  Firefighting apparatus and supplies as approved by the County Wildland 
Fire Marshall shall be maintained on the drilling site at all times during 
drilling and production operations. 
 
 
11-4-16 
11-4-17 
 
7.   Upon completion or abandonment of the well, all disturbed areas, 
including the drill site and staging areas shall be reclaimed by re-
contouring the area blend with the natural terrain, replacing top-soil and re-
vegetating.  A weed mitigation plan shall be implemented as part of the re-
vegetation plan for all disturbed areas.  
 
8.   Drill sites and/or staging areas located on sensitive lands such as steep 
slopes and ridgelines or within one (1) mile of a residential areas 
(including recreational cabins) or public buildings shall be subject to the 
Conditional Use review and approval process and may include additional 
review criteria such as hours of operation, screening and buffering, 
fencing, traffic, and lighting. 
 
G.   Criteria for wind power generation facilities. A Low Impact Permit application shall 
be reviewed and may be approved for wind power generation facilities according 
to the following criteria: 
  
1.   Access to the site shall utilize existing roads as much as possible.  
 
2.   Any required grading and associated cut and fill areas shall be re-
vegetated and contoured to blend into the natural terrain and maintain 
existing drainage patterns. A weed mitigation plan shall be implemented 
as part of the re-vegetation plan for all disturbed areas. 
 
3.   Erosion control best management practices in accordance with County 
Ordinance 381-A shall be applied to all disturbed areas, including roads, 
staging areas and facility site. 
 
4. Transmission lines shall be located along existing roadways where 
possible or in other locations that avoid vegetation disturbance and visual 
scaring of prominent hillsides.  
 
5.   Facility sites located on sensitive lands such as steep slopes, ridgelines, 
view corridors or within one (1) mile of a residential areas (including 
recreational cabins) or public buildings shall be subject to the Conditional 
Use review and approval process and may include additional review 
criteria such as height, colors, and security fencing. 
               
11-4-17: LOT LINE ADJUSTMENTS 
 
A. Purpose: The purpose of the Lot Line Adjustment process is to provide a 
procedure to adjust lot lines between adjacent properties that are not located 
within a recorded subdivision plat. 
 
 
 
 
11-4-17 
 
B. Criteria for Approval: Petitions to adjust lot lines between adjacent properties may 
be executed upon the recordation of an appropriate deed if: 
 
1. No new dwelling lot or housing unit results from the lot line adjustment; 
 
2. The adjoining property owners consent to the lot line adjustment; 
 
3. The lot line adjustment does not result in remnant land that did not 
previously exist; and, 
 
4. The adjustment does not result in violation of any applicable zoning 
requirements.  
 
C.  Submission Requirements: an application for a Lot Line Adjustment shall not be 
accepted as complete unless such application contains the information set forth 
below and all applicable fees have been paid; provided; however that the CDD or 
designated planning staff member may request, and the applicant shall submit 
such additional information as may be needed to ascertain whether such 
application conforms to the requirements of this Title. 
 
1. Current warranty deeds for each parcel involved in the lot line adjustment. 
 
2. Adjusted legal descriptions for each parcel involved in the lot line 
adjustment. 
 
3. Draft warranty deeds or property with new description of adjusted 
boundaries. 
           
4. A survey or graphical representation which includes: 
 
a. Title that states, “Lot Line Adjustment between parcels ___ and 
___” 
 
b. Date of plat, approximate true north point, scale, name of land 
surveyor and Surveyor’s Certificate. 
 
c. Location and dimensions of all property lines, existing easements, 
existing streets, and other public rights-of-way and identification of 
any structures and their setbacks from the adjusted property 
boundaries. 
 
d. Narrative (explanation of the lot line adjustment). 
 
D.   Review Procedure: 
 
 
 
 
 
11-4-17 
11-4-18 
 
1.  The CDD or designated planning staff member shall review the application 
and determine if the application complies with the criteria for approving a 
lot line adjustment as identified in this Title. 
 
2.  The request will be sent to the Summit County Engineering Office and the 
Summit County Recorder’s Office for their review and comment. 
 
3.  Final deeds reflecting the changes are required to be submitted upon 
request from the CDD or designated planning staff member. 
 
4.   The CDD or designated planning staff member shall prepare a “Lot Line 
Adjustment” memorandum that shall be executed by the owner(s) and 
recorded in the records of the Summit County Recorder with the final 
deeds and survey. 
         
11-4-18:  AMENDMENTS TO RECORDED SUBDIVISION PLATS  
 
A.   Purpose:  The purpose of the plat amendment process is to provide a procedure 
for amending a recorded subdivision plat. Upon compliance with the provisions of 
this Section and other applicable requirements of this Title, an amendment to a 
recorded subdivision plat may be granted by the CDD, Planning Commission or 
County Manager or County Council.  
 
B.   Applicability:   The CDD, Planning Commission, County Manager, or County 
Council, may, with or without petition, consider any proposed vacation, alteration 
or amendment of a subdivision plat, any portion of such subdivision plat, or any 
road or lot contained in such plat. 
 
C.   Review Procedures: 
            
1.    Plat amendments that result in the combination of lots and adjusting 
and/or altering lot lines within a platted subdivision.   
 
a.   Land Use Authority: The CDD shall be the Land Use Authority for 
all plat amendments resulting in the combination of lots and 
adjusting and/or altering lot lines within a platted subdivision. 
 
b. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall give notice of 
the proposed plat amendment and associated public hearing.  
Notice shall be mailed to each owner of property located within 
three hundred feet (300’) of the affected parcels. If adverse public 
comment concerning the proposed plat amendment is received 
within 10 days from the date of the notice, a public hearing shall be 
scheduled with the Planning Commission.  
 
 
 
11-4-18 
 
c.   Following the public hearing, the  Planning Commission shall make 
a recommendation to the CDD regarding an approval, approval with 
conditions or denial of the plat amendment. 
 
d. If no public comment is received within 10 days from the date of the 
notice, a public hearing is not required and the CDD shall approve, 
approve with conditions, or deny the plat amendment.  
 
2.    Plat amendments that result in building pad adjustments, subdivision title 
changes, plat note revisions, altering of utility easements, and all other 
amendments that do not affect a public or private road, lot line 
adjustments, or the combination of lots. 
 
a.  Land Use Authority: The Planning Commission shall be the Land 
Use Authority for all of the above-mentioned plat amendments. 
 
b.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing prior to its 
decision, and shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the 
plat amendment.    
 
c.   Notice of the Planning Commission public hearing shall be given in 
compliance with Subsection D of this Section. 
 
3.  Plat amendments that alter a private road shown on a subdivision plat. 
 
a.   The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing prior to its 
decision, and shall make a recommendation to the County 
Manager. 
 
b.   The County Manager shall approve, approve with conditions, or 
deny the plat amendment. 
 
c.   Notice of the public hearing shall be given in compliance with 
Subsection D of this Section. 
 
4. Plat amendments that alter a public road shown on a subdivision plat. 
 
a. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing, and shall 
thereafter make a recommendation to the County Council. 
 
b. The County Council shall hold a public hearing and approve, 
approve with conditions, or deny the plat amendment. 
 
c. Notice of the public hearing shall be given in compliance with 
Subsection D of this Section. 
 
D.   Required Notice of Public Hearings for Plat Amendments: 
 
 
             
11-4-18 
 
1.   The CDD or designated planning staff member shall give notice of the 
proposed plat amendment and associated public hearing.  Notice shall be 
mailed to each owner of property located within three hundred feet (300’) 
and may also be mailed to each owner of property within one thousand 
feet (1000’) for a representative public notice.  In addition, notice may be 
sent to all owners within the affected plat and the affected Home  
 Owners’ Association.  The notice shall fulfill the requirements of Utah State 
Code Annotated, Sections 17-27a-207 and 17-27a-208. 
 
2.   If the proposed plat amendment involves the vacation, alteration, or 
amendment of a road, the CDD or designated planning staff member shall 
give notice of the date, place, and time of the public hearing by: 
 
a.   Mailing notice, as required in Subsection D1 of this Section; and 
 
b.  For public roads, publishing the notice once a week for four (4) 
consecutive weeks before the hearing in a newspaper of general 
circulation. 
 
3.   Once a petition is filed and it is determined that a public hearing is required, 
the Land Use Authority shall hold the public hearing within forty-five (45) 
days following the receipt of a complete application. 
 
4.   Any fee owner of land within a platted and recorded subdivision, as shown 
on the last County assessment rolls, may petition in writing to have the plat,  
 any portion or road or lot contained therein to be vacated, altered or 
amended, as provided for in this Section. 
 
5.   At the CDD’s discretion, the public hearing requirement may be waived for 
plat amendments if the following criteria are met: 
 
a. The name and address and consenting signatures of all owners of 
record of the land contained in the entire subdivision plat are 
submitted with the application; or 
 
b.  The name and address and consenting signatures of all owners of 
record of land adjacent to any road that is proposed to be vacated, 
altered or amended is submitted with the application; or 
 
c.  The signatures of all owners within the subdivision acknowledging 
consent to the petition is submitted with the application. 
 
E.   General Criteria: 
 
1.   Upon approval of the plat amendment, the following signatures are 
required on the final amended plat:  CDD (only required for plat  
 
 
11-4-18 
11-4-19 
 
 amendments resulting in the combination of lots and adjusting and/or 
altering lot lines),  County Manager (only required for plat amendments 
that alter a private road shown on a subdivision plat), County Council (only 
required for plat amendments that alter a public road shown on a 
subdivision plat), Planning Commission (only required for plat 
amendments that result in building pad adjustments, subdivision title 
changes, plat note revisions and all other amendments that do not affect a 
public or private road, lot line adjustments, or the combination of lots), 
County Recorder, County Engineer, County Attorney, and County 
Assessor.  A “Certificate of Consent” from any and all mortgagors, lien 
holders, or others with a real property interest in the affected parcels is 
also required.   
 
2. Once the application is approved and all applicable signatures are 
obtained on the plat amendment, the County Attorney shall review a 
preliminary Title Report for acceptability.  
 
3. Upon approval of the County Attorney, and once all required signatures 
are obtained, the plat amendment shall be recorded in the records of the 
County Recorder. 
 
F.  Vacation by County Manager, or County Council:  When the County Manager or 
County Council proposes to vacate, alter or amend a subdivision plat, or any road 
or lot within a subdivision plat, the County Manager or County Council shall 
consider the issue at a public hearing after giving notice required by this Section. 
     
G.  Grounds for Vacating or Amending a Plat: 
 
1.   If the County Manager or Land Use Authority is satisfied that the public 
interest will not be materially injured by the proposed vacation, alteration or  
 amendment, and there is good cause for the vacation, alteration or 
amendment, the County Manager or Land Use Authority, may vacate, alter 
or amend the plat, any portion of the plat, or any road or lot therein. 
 
2.   No plat amendment shall be approved which results in an increase in 
density.  
 
H. Appeal:  An aggrieved party may appeal the final decision of a plat amendment in 
accordance with Appeals Procedures set forth in Section 11-7-17 of this Title.  
 
11-4-19: CONDOMINIUM PLATS 
 
A. Plat Requirements: A detailed condominium plat is required in all cases which 
comply with the definition of condominium contained in Appendix A of this Title. A 
condominium plat shall contain the information required for a Final Site Plan as 
identified in Section 11-4-5 of this Title. CCR’s for the development shall be  
 
 
11-4-19 
 
 submitted for review by the Summit County Attorney’s Office prior to recordation of  
 the plat. 
 
B. Review Procedure: The review procedure for a condominium plat shall be the same 
as the review procedure for a Final Site Plan, as outlined in Section 11-4-5 of this 
Title.  
 
C. Issuance of Building Permit: Building permits for condominium units can be issued 
following approval of the final plat by the Planning Commission and County  
 Manager as provided by this Chapter. The building permit will be issued based 
upon a certified architectural plan for the building elevation and floor plans as 
approved by the Building Official. 
 
D. Filing: All condominium plats shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder 
following completion of construction and before acceptance of improvements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
           11-5-1 
           11-5-2 
           11-5-3 
CHAPTER 5 
AMENDMENTS TO CODE AND ZONE DISTRICT MAP 
 
 
SECTION: 
 
11-5-1: Authority 
11-5-2: Initiation of Amendments 
11-5-3: Amendment Procedures 
 
 
11-5-1: AUTHORITY:  
The County Council may from time to time amend, supplement or repeal the provisions 
and regulations of this title and the Zone District Map of Eastern Summit County.  No 
change to the text of this title which affects a portion or all of the real property regulated 
by this title and no rezoning of a specific parcel of real property by a change in zoning 
classification resulting in a change to the Zone District Map shall be valid unless 
approved by the County Council pursuant to the provisions set forth herein, except that 
an application for amending an approved specially planned area plan shall be 
processed pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 4 of this Title. (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-5-2: INITIATION OF AMENDMENTS:  
Any amendment to the text of this Title or the Zone District Map may be initiated in the 
following ways:  
A. By a motion of the County Council;  
B. Upon the request of the Planning Commission;  
C. By the CDD or designated planning staff member or County Manager; or  
D. Upon the request of the individual having deed title of real property within the 
area to be rezoned.  (Ord. 470,11-19-2003)  
11-5-3: AMENDMENT PROCEDURES:  
A. Amendment to Text of Code:  Whenever there is initiated an amendment to the 
text of this title, such amendment shall be accomplished in the following manner:  
 
 
 
                     11-5-3 
1. A copy of the proposed amendment shall be delivered to the Planning 
Commission for its review and recommendation.  Prior to making a 
recommendation, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing 
regarding the proposed amendment.  
2. The Planning Commission's recommendation shall be delivered to the 
County Council.  The County Council shall hold a public hearing on the 
proposed amendment.  Following the public hearing, the County Council 
shall either approve or deny the amendment.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
B. Amendment to Zone District Map (Rezoning):  
1. If the applicant is a private landowner:  
 
a. An application for an amendment to the Zone District Map shall be 
submitted to the CDD or designated planning staff member.  The  
County Council may permit the rezoning of the property only after it 
has determined that said rezoning is consistent with the goals and 
objectives of the general plan, all other criteria and considerations 
described in this title, and said action is necessary to promote the 
public health, safety and welfare of the residents of Eastern Summit 
County.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996; amd. 2004 Code) 
 
b. The application must be authorized by each owner of the real 
property that is located within the area to be rezoned or a duly 
authorized representative of each owner. 
 
c. Approval of an amendment to the zone district map shall not be 
granted until both the Planning Commission and County Council 
have reviewed the specific development proposal and determined:  
(1) The amendment complies with the goals of the General Plan; 
(2) The amendment is compatible with adjacent land uses and 
will not be overly burdensome on the local community; 
(3) The specific development plan is in compliance with all 
applicable standards and criteria for approval as described in 
Chapter 4 of this Title; and 
(4) The amendment does not adversely affect the public health, 
safety and general welfare.  
2. The County Council may initiate the action on its own motion or upon 
request of the Planning Commission or County Manager.  
a. When the amendment is proposed by the County Council, the 
application shall contain the following:  
 (1) An accurate survey map or other sufficient legal descriptions.  
 
 
11-5-3 
(2) The names and addresses of all owners of real property 
within the area to be rezoned.  
(3) The proposed nature of the amendment.  
b. The Planning Commission shall review the proposed 
amendment.  The Planning Commission must find that the 
proposed amendment is consistent with the requirements in 
Subsection B 1c of this Section.  Prior to making a 
recommendation, the Planning Commission shall hold a public 
hearing regarding the proposed amendment.  
c. The Planning Commission's recommendation shall be delivered to 
the County Council. The County Council shall hold a public hearing 
regarding the proposed amendment.  Following the public hearing, 
the County Council shall either approve or deny the amendment.  
In order to approve the amendment, the County Council must find 
that the proposed amendment is consistent with the requirements 
in Subsection B 1c of this Section.  
C. Amendments by Ordinance:  All amendments to the text of this title and to the 
Zone District Map shall be authorized by ordinance, in the manner prescribed by 
state law.  (Ord. 278, 56-1996)  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                       11-6-1 
      
CHAPTER 6 
GENERAL REGULATIONS 
SECTION: 
 
11-6-1: Public Hearing Requirements 
11-6-2: Non-conforming Uses, Structures and Lots  
11-6-3: Home Occupations 
11-6-4: Signs 
11-6-5: Accessory Dwelling Units 
11-6-6: Equipment Enclosures, Utility Structures and Related Facilities 
11-6-7: Wireless Communications 
11-6-8: Infrastructure Standards   
11-6-9  Development Agreements 
11-6-10: Reapplication Following Denial 
11-6-11: Revocation of Approvals and/or Permits 
11-6-12: Failure to Comply with Conditions 
11-6-13: Effective Period of Approvals 
11-6-14: Completion of Improvements 
11-6-15: Construction Plans 
11-6-16: Issuance of Building Permits 
11-6-17: Project Closure Due to Inaction 
11-6-18: Residential Care Facilities for Elderly or Disabled 
 
11-6-1: PUBLIC HEARING REQUIREMENTS:  
Unless otherwise stated in this title, all notices required under this Section shall be 
given as follows:  
A.   Published Notice:  All published notices shall be given by publication in a 
newspaper having general circulation in Eastern Summit County at least ten (10) 
days before the date of the public hearing and in accordance with state law.  
Published notice shall state the nature of the request for which application has 
been made, and the time, place and date of the public hearing on the matter.  
B.  Mailed Notice to Property Owners:  The CDD or designated planning staff 
member will send public hearing notices to each property owner located within 
one thousand feet (1,000') from any boundary of the property subject to a 
development application.   
When properties located within one thousand feet (1,000') are part of an 
association of property owners, a courtesy notice should be sent to the property 
owners' association.  The addresses for adjacent owners shall be as shown on 
the most recently available County tax assessment rolls.  The notice shall state 
that an application has been filed affecting the subject property, the nature of the 
application or action, and the time, place and date set for public hearing on the  
 
 
11-6-1 
11-6-2 
matter. Failure to notify property owner associations or individual property owners 
not specifically identified on the most recently available County tax assessment 
rolls shall not affect or invalidate any hearing or action by any board or 
commission. The applicant shall pay the cost for the County to provide this 
service. 
C. Proof of Notice:  If notice given under authority of this section is not challenged as 
provided for under state law within thirty (30) days from the date of the hearing for 
which the challenged notice was given, the notice is considered adequate and 
proper.  (Ord. 278, 5-61996)  
11-6-2: NON-CONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES AND LOTS:    
 
A. Purpose: Within the zone districts established in Chapter 3.0 of the Code, there 
may be existing lots, structures, and uses of land and structures, which were 
lawfully established before the adoption of the Code, but which are now 
prohibited, regulated, or restricted. It is the intent of this section to allow these 
uses and structures to continue until such time as they are removed or otherwise 
brought into conformance with this Title. 
 
B. Burden on Owner to Establish Legality: The property owner bears the burden of 
establishing that any non-conforming use or non-conforming structure lawfully 
exists. 
 
C.   New Non-Conforming Use, Structure Prohibited. No lot, parcel of land, or interest 
therein, shall be transferred, conveyed, sold, subdivided or acquired either in 
whole or in part so as to create a new non-conforming use, structure, or 
lot/parcel, or to avoid or circumvent the requirements of the Code. No building 
permit will be issued for any lot, parcel, or structure which has been transferred, 
conveyed, sold, subdivided or acquired in violation of the Code. 
 
D. Non-Conformance of Area per Dwelling Unit: A parcel/lot that was lawfully 
created but does not conform to the minimum area per dwelling unit requirement 
of the zone district in which it is located shall be considered a lot of record and is 
entitled to one, but no more than one dwelling unit thereon (lot of record) if it can 
meet the development code criteria. 
 
E. Maintenance and Repair of a Non-Conforming Structure: A non-conforming 
structure may be repaired, maintained, or improved, provided such repair, 
maintenance, or improvement is in compliance with the provisions of this Title. A 
non-conforming structure may be altered to decrease its non-conformity or to be 
brought into compliance with the provisions of this Title. 
 
F. Removal of a Non-Conforming Use or Non-Conforming Structure: If any such 
non-conforming use, non-conforming structure or non-conforming portion thereof 
is demolished or removed at the will of the property owner, any subsequent use,  
 
 
            11-6-2 
 
structure or portion thereof shall thereafter be required to conform to the 
regulations specified in this Title for the zone district in which the use or structure 
is located. 
 
G. Replacement of a Non-Conforming Use or Non-Conforming Structure: If any non-
conforming use, non-conforming structure, or non-conforming portion thereof, is 
destroyed by fire or other natural cause, it may be replaced.  If all necessary 
development permits are not obtained to repair or replace the damaged structure 
or use within one (1) year from the date of loss, the structure or use may not be 
reconstructed or replaced, except in conformance with the provisions of this Title. 
The CDD or designated planning staff member may grant a one time, one (1) 
year extension upon finding that special circumstances, such as construction 
schedules, seasonal weather conditions, renewed business demand, or other 
similar circumstances exist which warrant such an extension. In order to grant an 
extension, the property owner shall file a written request to the Community 
Development Department requesting such extension and be under due diligence 
in replacing or rebuilding the use or structure, prior to the end of the original one 
(1) year period. 
 
H. Enlargement of a Non-Conforming Residential, Agricultural, or Accessory 
Structure: A non-conforming residential, agricultural, or accessory structure may 
be enlarged according to the following criteria: 
 
1. Building Permit Required: Any portion of a non-conforming residential or 
accessory structure that complies with the setback requirements for the 
zone district in which the structure is located may be enlarged through the 
building permit process only, if the enlargement will further comply with all 
applicable zoning requirements. SEE FIGURE 1 BELOW. 
 
2. Agricultural Structure: Any portion of a non-conforming agricultural 
structure that complies with the setback requirements for the zone district 
in which the structure is located may be enlarged through the building 
permit process or if applicable, the Agricultural Use Exemption, if the 
enlargement will further comply with all applicable zoning requirements. 
SEE FIGURE 1 BELOW. 
 
3. Low Impact Permit Required: Any portion of a non-conforming residential, 
agricultural, or accessory structure that does not comply with the setback 
requirements for the zone district in which the structure is located may be 
enlarged through the Low Impact Permit process described in Section 11-
4-12 of this Title and according to the following criteria.  
 
a. At least 50% of the existing structure walls to be expanded, from 
which the setback is measured, must be non-conforming. SEE 
FIGURE 2 BELOW. 
 
 
 
 
          11-6-2 
 
b. Additions to non-conforming residential, agricultural, or accessory 
structures may extend to the existing non-conforming setback line, 
but may not encroach further into the setback. SEE FIGURE 3 
BELOW. 
 
c. In no case shall the addition be closer than fifty percent (50%) of the 
zone required setback. SEE FIGURE 4 BELOW. 
 
d. Non-conforming residential, agricultural, or accessory structures 
may not be enlarged for the purpose of increasing density.  
 
I. Enlargement of a Non-Conforming Commercial or Industrial Structure. A non-
conforming commercial or industrial structure may be enlarged according to the 
following criteria: 
 
1. Building Permit Required: Any portion of a non-conforming commercial or 
industrial structure that does not comply with the setback requirements for 
the zone district in which the structure is located may be enlarged through 
the building permit process only, if the enlargement will further comply with 
all applicable zoning requirements. This provision only applies to 
commercial or industrial non-conforming structures that contain a 
conforming use. SEE FIGURE 1 BELOW. 
 
2. Low Impact Permit Required: A non-conforming commercial or industrial 
structure shall not be enlarged in any way that increases the non-
conformity, except through the Low Impact Permit process described in 
Section 11-4-12 of this Title and according to the criteria found in 
Section11-6-2 (K)(4) of this Chapter.  A public hearing shall be held before 
the Commission. Following the public hearing, the Commission shall make 
a recommendation to the CDD regarding an approval, approval with 
conditions, or denial of the application.  
 
J. Enlargement or Conversion of a Non-Conforming Commercial or Industrial Use: 
A non-conforming commercial or industrial use may be enlarged or converted to 
another non-conforming use according to the following criteria: 
 
1. Low Impact Permit Required: A non-conforming commercial or industrial 
use shall not be enlarged in any way that increases the non-conformity 
except through the Low Impact Permit process described in Section 11-4-
12 of this Title and according to the criteria found in Section11-6-2 (K)(4) 
of this Chapter. A public hearing shall be held before the Commission. 
Following the public hearing, the Commission shall make a 
recommendation to the CDD regarding an approval, approval with 
conditions or denial of the application.  
 
2. Abandonment or Loss of Non-Conforming Commercial  or Industrial Use: 
A non-conforming commercial or industrial use that is discontinued for a  
 
 
           11-6-2 
 
continuous period of one (1) year is presumed abandoned and shall not 
thereafter by re-established or resumed. The property owner shall have 
the burden of establishing that any claimed abandonment has not in fact 
occurred. Any party claiming that a non-conforming use has been 
abandoned shall have the burden of establishing such abandonment. All 
evidence either providing non-abandonment or abandonment shall be 
submitted to the CDD who shall make a final determination of 
abandonment status. Any subsequent use of the building, structure, or 
land must conform to the regulations specified in this Title for the zone 
district in which the use is located.  
 
3. Special Standards that shall be met for Expansions or Conversions of 
Non-Conforming Commercial or Industrial Uses: 
 
a. The use does not significantly increase vehicular traffic or interfere 
with traffic flow; 
 
b. The use does not significantly increase the demand for parking; 
 
c. The use does not significantly intensify the likelihood of pedestrian 
and vehicular conflicts; 
 
d. The use does not create unsightly conditions or impacts to the 
environment including, but not limited to unscreened storage and 
other environmental concerns; 
 
e. The use does not significantly intensify noise levels or odors; 
 
f. The use does not create significant dust and dirt conditions, which 
cannot be adequately mitigated; 
 
g. The use does not significantly intensify lighting and glare 
conditions; 
 
h. The use does not create a significant change in privacy for adjacent 
property owners; 
 
i. The use is generally consistent with the goals and policies of the 
General Plan; and 
 
j. The use will not adversely affect, in a significant manner, the public 
health, safety, and welfare. 
 
K. Sensitive Lands: 
 
1.  Prohibited:  Any portion of a non-conforming residential, agricultural, 
accessory, or commercial structure or any portion of a non-conforming use  
 
 
           11-6-2 
 
that is located within sensitive lands (wetlands, slopes greater than 30%, 
and streams) shall not be enlarged.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
FIGURE 1: Addition proposed that complies with the zone required setbacks. 
Building permit required. 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 FIGURE 2: At least 50% of the wall proposed to be enlarged shall be 
non-conforming. Low Impact Permit required. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
Required Setback 12' 
Permitted Setback 8' 
50% of the wall is 
non-conforming: 
 
Existing Setback 8' 
Proposed  
Addition 
Existing 
Structure 
Proposed Setback 12’ 
Existing Setback 8’ 
Required Setback 12’ 
 
Existing 
Structure 
Proposed 
Addition 
 
 
 
         11-6-2 
 
 
FIGURE 3: Addition proposed to the existing non-conforming setback line, but 
not further into the setback. Low Impact Permit required. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 FIGURE 4: Addition proposed to the existing non-conforming setback 
line, but not closer than 50% of the zone required setback. Low Impact 
Permit required. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Required Setback 12' 
Existing Setback 4' 
Permitted Setback 6' 
(50% of the zone 
required setback) 
Proposed  
Addition 
Existing 
Structure 
Required Setback 12' 
Existing Setback 8' 
Permitted Setback 8' 
Proposed  
Addition 
Existing 
Structure 
 
 
            11-6-3 
11-6-4 
 
11-6-3: HOME OCCUPATIONS:  
A.   Purpose:  The purpose of this section is the ensure that the owners of one-
family dwelling units may undertake occupations on the premises, so long as 
the home occupation is not intrusive to surrounding land uses or will not alter 
the essential character of the neighborhood.  Home occupations may be 
established, maintained and expanded, so long as they are consistent with the 
standards described below.  Home occupations that meet these standards do 
not require further approval by the County, but the operator may be required to 
obtain and maintain a valid business license.  
B.   Standards:  All home occupations shall comply with the following standards:  
1.   Home occupation may take place within the residential building, an 
accessory building, or outside on the parcel/lot.  The use of the 
dwellingunit, accessory building or parcel/lot must be clearly incidental 
and subordinate to its use for residential purposes;  
2.   The impacts of related activity outside of the dwelling shall create 
minimum impact on surrounding residential uses.  Screened outside 
storage of materials as viewed from neighboring properties is required.  
Home occupations shall generate minimal dust, odor, fumes, noise, 
light, and other similar impacts that are not customary to the permitted 
dwelling unit alone;  
3.   Vehicular traffic associated with the home occupation shall not exceed 
that which would normally be expected in the residential area in which it 
is located;  
4.   Exterior advertising for home occupations on the premises is not 
permitted;  
5.   Retail sales and rentals shall not be considered home occupations; and 
6.   Home occupations shall comply with the all applicable Development 
Evaluation Standards described in Chapter 2 of this Title.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-
1996)  
11-6-4: SIGNS:  
No sign shall be erected, relocated or enlarged until the plan for such sign has been 
approved and a permit issued by the CDD or designated planning staff member.  
Nameplates, property signs, service signs, and temporary signs conforming to the 
provisions of this title may be erected without such approval or permit.  
A.   Number of Freestanding Signs: 
 
 
                   11-6-4 
 
1.   Lots with less than three hundred feet (300') of street frontage on one 
street shall be allowed one freestanding sign.  
2.   Lots with more than three hundred feet (300’) of street frontage on one 
street shall be allowed two (2) freestanding signs.  
B. Location of Freestanding Signs: Freestanding signs shall be set back at least 
five feet (5') from any property or right-of-way line.  
C.   Size of Signs:  
1.  One square foot of sign area shall be permitted for every five feet (5') 
of continuous linear building frontage upon which such sign is 
mounted, up to a maximum of thirty (30) square feet.  
2.   Freestanding signs shall not exceed forty (40) square feet.  
D. Lighting of Signs:  No spotlight, floodlight, luminous tubes or lighted sign shall be 
installed in any way which will permit the direct rays of such light to penetrate into 
any residential zone or onto any property used for residential purposes.  
E.   General Restrictions:  No light, sign or other advertising structure shall be 
erected at the intersection of any streets in such a manner as to obstruct free and 
clear vision or at any location where, by reason of the position, shape or color, it 
may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with any authorized traffic 
sign, signal or device; or which makes use of the words, "stop", "look", "danger", 
or any word, phrase, symbol, or character in such a manner as to interfere with, 
mislead or confuse traffic.  
F.  Signs on Public Property: No sign shall be erected on or project over publicly  
owned land, except signs erected by a public agency for the direction and 
safety of the general public.  
G. Real Estate Signs:  No real estate sales sign shall be located within thirty feet 
(30') of the edge of an adjacent road surface or no closer than an existing fence 
line that is parallel to the road, whichever distance is less. 
H. Campaign Signs:  Campaign signs are exempt from obtaining a sign permit; 
however, they must still comply with the following guidelines.  Campaign signs 
shall not exceed three square feet (3 sq. ft.) of area and four feet (4’) in height, 
measured from the top of the sign to the grade directly below the sign.  Campaign  
signs are permitted in any zone district, provided they are located a minimum of 
ten feet (10’) back from the edge of the curb or edge of pavement, where there is 
no curb on the street which the sign fronts.  If the ten foot (10’) distance would be 
within a structure, the sign may be within three feet (3’) of the front of the 
structure.  Illumination of campaign signs is prohibited. These signs shall only be 
permitted on private property with the permission of the property owner and are 
not permitted in the public right-of-way.  County personnel may remove and  
 
 
            11-6-4 
impound these signs if notice to remove the signs has been sent to the property 
owner or candidate and they have failed to comply with that notice.  
I.   Off Premises Signs Prohibited:  No sign shall be erected or maintained on a 
parcel, lot or project area other than the specific lot or parcel on which the use 
or activity advertised on the sign is located.  
J.    Non-conforming Signs:  Non-conforming signs, excluding billboards, shall be 
required to conform or be removed as follows: on the happening of any of the 
events described below, or where any of the following conditions apply, the sign 
or signs shall be brought into compliance within one year after the effective date 
hereof, and a new permit shall be secured therefore, or shall be removed.  
1.   The cost of the non-conforming sign is valued at less than one hundred 
dollars ($100.00).  Sign value shall be determined based on an actual 
sales receipt for the sign or a cost estimate for the replacement cost 
provided by a qualified professional.  
2.   When a non-conforming sign is destroyed or damaged to an extent in 
excess of fifty percent (50%) of the sign value.
3.   The sign is relocated in any manner.       
4.   If the sign is altered structurally, or if more than fifty percent (50%) of the 
copy, as measured by the sign area, is altered, except for changeable 
copy signs and maintenance.  
5.   If the business or service for which the non-conforming sign was installed 
is expanded or modified.  All improvements to a single business or use 
within any twelve (12) month period shall be treated cumulatively in the 
administration of this subsection.  
6.   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prohibit the County from 
removing a billboard without providing just compensation in accordance 
with the procedures set forth in this subsection if the County Manager 
provides reasonable notice of the proceedings and, following a public         
hearing, finds:  
a.   The applicant made a false or misleading statement in any 
application to the County necessary to establish or change the 
billboard;  
b.   The billboard is unsafe or presents a hazard to persons or 
property;  
c.   The billboard is in a state of disrepair; or  
d.   The billboard has been abandoned for at least twelve (12) 
months.  (Ord. 278, 5-61996)  
 
 
                   11-6-5 
          11-6-6 
11-6-5: ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS:   
A.   Scope:  When designated in Section 11-3-12 of this Title, an accessory dwelling 
unit or an agricultural employee dwelling unit may be approved by the County.  
When approved through the Conditional Use process, both an accessory dwelling 
unit and an agricultural employee dwelling unit may be approved on the same 
parcel/lot.  (Ord. 278,5-6-1996)  
B.   Accessory Dwelling Unit:  
1.   An accessory dwelling unit shall not exceed one thousand (1,000) 
square feet of gross square footage, as measured from exterior wall to 
exterior wall of the dwelling unit itself.  
2.   An accessory dwelling unit may be placed within a larger accessory 
structure (such as a barn or garage), but the dwelling unit itself shall be 
limited to one thousand (1,000) square feet.  
3.   Other provisions of this title will apply to the size and permitting of the 
larger accessory structure. (Ord. 470, 11-19-2003)  
C.   Agricultural Employee Dwelling Unit:  An Agricultural Employee Dwelling Unit is a 
one-family dwelling unit of up to but not to exceed two thousand (2,000) square 
feet.  Before an Agricultural Employee Dwelling Unit is approved, it must be 
demonstrated that the property on which the dwelling will be located contains a 
viable "agricultural operation", as defined in Appendix A of this Title.  An 
Agricultural Employee Dwelling Unit shall be located in reasonable proximity to 
the primary residential dwelling unit as determined through the conditional use 
review.  An Agricultural Employee Dwelling Unit can be constructed prior to the 
primary structure as long as the Conditional Use criteria is satisfied.  (Ord. 365, 9-
13-1999)  
D. Deed Or Restrictive Use Covenant Required:  An Accessory Dwelling Unit and an 
Agricultural Employee Dwelling Unit shall be connected by deed or restrictive use 
covenant to the principal dwelling unit or structure on the parcel/lot, and shall not 
be eligible for subdivision/condominiumization and conveyance to another 
person.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-6-6: EQUIPMENT ENCLOSURES, UTILITY STRUCTURES AND 
  RELATED FACILITIES:  
Equipment enclosures, utility structures, and related facilities shall address the 
following issues: screening, noise level, odors/air quality, lighting, landscaping, 
architectural screening/buffering, proximity, etc.  The length, size, and architectural 
character of the proposed structure must be compatible with the residential uses in the 
area and must comply with the setback requirements for the zone in which it is located.  
 
 
                  11-6-6 
A.    Purpose:  The purpose of this section is to ensure that all utility 
facilities/structures are located, installed, buffered/screened and maintained in 
a manner that will minimize the impact of such facilities/structures on nearby 
landowners and will not adversely affect the rural, agricultural, small town 
character and scenic beauty of Eastern Summit County.  
B.    Application:  All applicants wishing to submit an application to construct utility 
facilities/structures shall: 1) submit to staff the latitude and longitude of 
proposed utility facilities/structures; 2) meet or exceed the following criteria in 
addition to the Conditional Use criteria in Section 11-4-5 of this Title:  
1.   Site Location/Proximity:  The equipment enclosures and 
facilities/structures shall be located in a manner that reduces, to the 
maximum extent possible, the visibility from any major highway, 
roadway and/or adjacent development.  Such facilities and related uses 
shall also be required to be consistent with the aesthetics of the 
neighborhood, and particular care shall be taken to reduce all potential 
impacts on adjacent residential uses.  
2.   Site Layout And Design:  Such development shall be integrated into the 
site in a manner that is sensitive to the existing topography, vegetation 
and any nearby structures, and which utilizes the existing site features, to 
the maximum extent possible, to screen the facilities from nearby 
landowners and sensitive view corridors.  
a.   Fencing shall be within five feet (5') or less from structures and 
allowance of two (2) parking stalls for temporary parking and 
maintenance requirements within enclosure.  Fence setbacks from 
structures can be varied upon review of application if there are site 
limitations or applicant maintenance requirements. 
 
b.   Hard surface and gravel areas outside of proposed structures shall 
not extend to property boundaries, but shall instead be minimized, 
to the greatest extent possible, with appropriate landscape buffering 
as described in Subsection B4 of this Section.  
 
3.   Architectural Screening: When appropriate and/or necessary to meet the 
requirements of Subsection A of this Section, architectural screening shall 
be utilized to disguise the facilities/structures as typical farm type 
outbuildings which are consistent with the rural, agricultural character of 
the area.  Long, unbroken facades and rooflines shall be avoided as well 
as the use of industrial type material and finishes.  
4.   Landscape Buffering:  When appropriate and/or necessary to meet the 
requirements of Subsection A of this Section, landscaping and/or berming 
techniques shall be utilized to mitigate the visual and other related impacts 
of utility facilities/structures.  Such landscaping and berming shall emulate 
the natural, rural landscape.  All disturbed areas shall be re-vegetated with  
 
 
                   11-6-6 
         11-6-7  
appropriate plant materials.  Temporary irrigation shall be required for 
initial establishment and long term support of new landscaping and re-
vegetation of disturbed areas.  
5.   Lighting:  Lighting shall be the minimum required for maintenance and 
security purposes. Fixtures shall be fully shielded with light directed down 
and shall be controlled by motion detectors such that the lights are off 
unless needed for maintenance access or tripped on by motion detectors.  
Flood type area lighting is prohibited.  Wall mounted fixtures shall be 
installed no higher than eight feet (8') above the finished grade 
immediately below the fixture.  
6.   Noise:  The development shall not generate noise which would result in 
materially adverse impacts to the adjacent land or its occupants.  A 
noise study may be required to make this determination.  
7.   Security Fencing: Security fencing shall be as unobtrusive as possible and 
shall blend in with the surrounding environment.  
8.   Fuel Storage/Handling:  On site fuel storage (for backup generator, 
etc.) shall be designed for full, backup containment in the event of 
primary tank failure and/or spillage during refueling.  Any and all fuel 
spills or spills of any hazardous materials shall be immediately cleaned 
up, removed from the site and disposed of in accordance with all 
federal, state and local regulations.  
9.   Outdoor Storage:  Outdoor storage of materials and equipment shall be 
prohibited.  
10.   Maintenance:  At all times, all site improvements, including any required 
landscaping, fencing, buildings, finishes, etc., shall be maintained to an 
acceptable standard such that the facilities and related site 
improvements shall not adversely affect, in a significant manner, the 
public health, safety and welfare.  (Ord. 417, 7-5-2001)  
11-6-7: WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS:  
A.   Purposes:  The purpose of this section is:  
1.   To ensure that all telecommunications facilities comply with federal, state 
and County regulations. 
2.   To regulate telecommunications services, antennas and support 
structures, and related electronic equipment and equipment enclosures.  
3.   To provide for the orderly establishment of telecommunications facilities in 
the County.  
 
 
                   11-6-7 
4.   To minimize the number of antenna support structures by encouraging 
the co-location of multiple antennas on a single structure, and by 
encouraging the location of antennas on pre-existing support structures.  
5.   To establish siting, appearance and safety standards that will help 
mitigate potential impacts related to the construction, use and 
maintenance of telecommunications facilities.  
6.   To comply with the Telecommunications Act of 1996 by establishing 
regulations that:  
a.   Do not unreasonably discriminate among providers of functionally 
equivalent services.  
b.   Do not prohibit or have the effect of prohibiting the provision of 
telecommunications services.  
c.   Are not based on any claimed environmental effects of radio 
frequency emissions to the extent that such facilities comply with 
the federal communication commission's regulations concerning 
such emissions.  
d.   Ensure that all utility facilities/structures are located, installed, 
buffered/screened and maintained in a manner that will minimize 
the impact of such facilities/structures on nearby landowners and 
will not adversely affect the rural, agricultural, small town character 
and scenic beauty of Eastern Summit County.  
B.   General Provisions:  
1. Independent Review: The County may, if it deems necessary, cause the 
applicant to submit an impact study from a qualified, third party radio 
frequency engineer, to ensure that the proposed telecommunications 
facility will not interfere with existing radio, television, and emergency 
signals. The purpose of this review shall be to determine if other sites are 
available which can achieve an equivalent signal distribution without 
significantly affecting the existing telecommunication operations within the 
County. Such review may be required when an applicant indicates that no 
other acceptable site exists. The cost for such review shall be borne by the 
applicant.  
2. Telecommunication facilities applications shall be permitted in accordance 
with Section 11-3-13 of this Title.  
C.  Construction Standards: 
1. Building Codes and Safety Standards: The ensure the structural integrity 
of telecommunications facilities, the owner of a telecommunication facility  
 
 
           11-6-7 
 shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with the standards 
contained in applicable building codes and application standards for such 
telecommunications facilities, as amended.  
2. Letter of Intent: All applicants who apply to build a tower shall provide one 
(1) letter of intent from a telecommunications company that will locate on 
the tower. 
D.  General Requirements: 
1. Setbacks: Telecommunications facility shall be setback 115 percent of the 
tower’s height from the property line, or they shall meet the zone required 
setback, whichever is greater. The telecommunication facility shall be at 
least one hundred feet (100') from any public trail, park or outdoor 
recreation area.  Guy wire anchors shall be set back at least twenty feet 
(20') from any property line. The CDD or designated planning staff 
member can approve varied setbacks if the telecommunications facility 
can be screened more appropriately by topography, vegetation or existing 
structures; however, the adjacent landowner(s) must sign a written 
agreement authorizing the decreased setback(s) from their property 
line(s). If telecommunication facilities are located in commercial or 
industrial zones or on County owned property, they shall only be allowed 
in the rear yard. 
2. Signage: Signs shall be limited to non-illuminated warning and equipment 
identification signs, unless additional signs are warranted by the FAA, 
FCC, or any other agency of the state or federal government with the 
authority to regulate telecommunications facilities. 
3. Access Roads: Access roads shall be limited to ten feet (10’) in width, 
unless otherwise approved by the Fire District or Summit County 
Engineering Office because of safety considerations. Access roads shall 
contain gravel or other non-paved surface. Existing roads shall, whenever 
possible, be upgraded the minimum amount necessary.  
4. Co-Location. An applicant proposing to erect a new telecommunications 
facility shall provide documentary evidence that a legitimate attempt has 
been made to locate the new telecommunications facility on existing 
buildings or structures or as a co-location on an existing antenna support 
structure.  Such evidence shall include a radio frequency engineering 
analysis of the potential suitability of existing buildings or structures or co-
location sites in the radio frequency  coverage area for the proposed 
telecommunications facility. Efforts to secure such locations may be 
documented through correspondence between the applicant and the 
property owner(s) of the existing buildings, structures or co-location sites.  
5. Equipment Enclosures: Every effort shall be made so that equipment 
enclosures or other structures are designed whereby the incorporation of  
 
 
            
           11-6-7 
           11-6-8 
 stealth design technology or other visual screening (topography or 
vegetation) is utilized that readily conceals the appearance of the 
structure.  
6. Master Plan Requirements:  A master plan shall be completed by 
each company submitting an application for a development 
review.  The master plan shall include:  
a. Where the applicant's proposed, existing and future 
telecommunication facilities are within the County.  The master plan 
may be amended as needed by the carrier for future site 
applications. 
 
b.  The number of possible co-locations that can be obtained on the 
proposed tower. 
 
c.  A copy of the applicant's current FCC license. 
   
d.  A signed agreement, stating that the applicant will:  
(1)   Allow co-location with other users, provided all safety, 
structural and technological requirements are met. This 
agreement shall also state that any future owners or 
operators will allow co-location on the tower; 
(2)   Restore site to its former condition. (See Non-maintained or 
Abandoned Facilities.)  
e.  A security program or system that addresses unauthorized access 
and vandalism. 
7.  Non-maintained or Abandoned Facilities:  The Director or designated 
planning staff member may require each non-maintained or abandoned 
telecommunication facility to be removed when such a telecommunication 
facility has not been repaired or put into use by the owner, person having 
control, or person receiving benefit of such structure within six (6) months 
after written notice of non-maintenance or abandonment is given to the 
owner, person having control, or person receiving the benefit of such 
structure.  (Ord. 417, 7-5-2001)  
11-6-8: INFRASTRUCTURE STANDARDS:  
 
A.  Fire Protection Standards: 
 
1.  All development, including a single-family dwelling on an individual lot or 
parcel, which does not have year-round access or is located within the 
Wildland Fire Urban Interface Zone, is subject to the fire protection  
 
 
                    11-6-8 
 
measures required by the 2006 Utah Wildland Fire Urban Interface Code 
and the respective fire district and/or fire warden.   
 
The Wildland Urban Interface (WUI) zone map was developed using the 
roads to the outside of the valley floors as a simplified boundary.  The 
areas within the valley floors typically have a water supply or are in areas 
with irrigated fields/modified vegetation and are in the vicinity of 
maintained roads that lower the wildland fire potential, and are therefore 
excluded from the WUI zone.  Areas within 250 feet of these road 
centerlines are also excluded from the WUI zone, as fire equipment can 
typically access these buildings within National Fire Protection Association 
(NFPA) requirements for hose length.  The 250 feet buffer is to be 
measured from Center line of the road across the ground to the building(s) 
by way of the normal access provided.   
 
For wildland/urban fire requirement purposes, the following criteria shall be 
used by the applicable Fire District when reviewing development 
applications in Eastern Summit County:   
 
a. Location of building with respect to designated Wildland Urban 
Interface (WUI) area based on the County and State approved map. 
 
b. Response time for responding fire units.  
 
c. Access, including road and bridge weight limits.  
 
d. Space at the building for sufficient fire equipment to adequately and 
safely fight or defend the building(s).  
 
e. Type and density of vegetation around the buildings.  
 
f. Separation of buildings from vegetation as to prevent a building fire 
from spreading to Wildland.  
 
g. Type of road or driveway, length, and grade, as well as type of 
access (seasonal vs. year-round).  
 
h. Distance from established water supply and the ability to get that 
water to the fire based on pump capacity, access, and space at the 
building and turn-arounds.  
 
Other criteria that shall be used are the following State adopted laws and 
rules:  
 
 The State Fire Code Adoption Act.  
 
 
 
 
          11-6-8 
 
 Utah Code Subsection 65A-8-203(3)a  (RE: cooperative fire 
protection agreements with counties.)  
 
 Utah Administrative Code R652-122-200 Minimum Standards for 
Wildland Fire Ordinance. 
  
 Utah Administrative Code R309-550-5 Water Main Design  
 2006 Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code.  
 
 Other provisions of this Title.  
 
 The 2009 International Fire Code (IFC) or newer as adopted by the 
State of Utah.  
            
2. Based on this review, applicants may be required to enact a variety of 
measures to minimize the level of fire hazard.  The fire protection 
measures may include the following:  
 
a. Connection to a community or private water system, well or spring 
with a minimum 5,000 gallon water storage tank, pond, or other 
accessible water body with a dry hydrant.   
 
b. Defensible space around each dwelling.  
 
c. Non-combustible roofing materials.  
 
d. Internal fire sprinkler systems.  
 
3. Based upon specific site characteristics (e.g. a meadow or irrigated field 
within the WUI zone) and the applicant’s ability to provide an adequate 
combination of the above listed building or on-site improvements, the fire 
district may waive certain requirements.   
 
a. All applicants for new development shall, at the time of application, 
acknowledge that they have reviewed the Summit County Living 
with Fire information pamphlet and consulted the building 
department, insurance companies, builders and fire districts/fire 
warden regarding fire protection. 
 
B.  Wildfire Hazard Guidelines: 
 
1.  All proposed developments within the AG-100 and AG-160 zone districts 
shall be analyzed and rated on its wildfire risk using the fire hazard 
severity scale developed by the state, division of state lands and forestry.  
A development shall be rated based on the following criteria. The 
composite score will categorize the hazard level of the proposed  
 
 
 
                              11-6-8 
 
development as moderate, high, or extreme. This rating, based on the 
following, shall be submitted to the County as part of any sketch plan:  
 
a.  Slope of the site on which the development is proposed;  
 
b.  Aspect, or the general direction in which the surface of the ground 
faces;  
 
c.  Response time of the responsible fire agency as measured in 
minutes; 
 
d.  Vegetation density to measure the fuel loading of the area; and,  
 
e.  Type of vegetation to identify rates of spread, resistance to control 
and other factors.  
             
2.  Hazardous fuels in the form of native vegetation will be cleared around 
structures and around the perimeter of subdivisions where appropriate to 
assist in wildfire prevention. Fuel breaks are not intended as complete 
vegetation removal; but rather, they shall serve as a change in fuel 
continuity, type of fuel, and degree of flammability of fuel in a strategically 
located area to reduce or hinder the rate of fire spread. The amount of 
vegetation to be removed/left within a fuel break area shall be 
recommended by the appropriate fire district. Fuel breaks around 
residential dwelling units shall be in place before the issuance of a 
certificate of occupancy.  
 
3.  Fuel break clearing limits shall be as follows: 
 
Type    Moderate High  Extreme 
Structures   30 feet 50 feet 75 feet  
Development perimeter None  75 feet 100 feet  
 
4.  As part of a recorded plat for a subdivision in the AG-100 and AG-160 
zone districts, fuel break easement shall be identified and a note shall be 
placed on the plat stating the following:  
 
The fuel break easement is granted for the benefit of the Utah state area 
forester. Fuel breaks shall be maintained by the landowner or 
homeowners' association. Failure of the landowner to maintain the fuel 
break shall cause the area forester to cause the maintenance of the fuel 
break and charge the landowner for costs incurred.  
 
C.  Road Standards: Public and private roads in subdivisions shall meet the following 
minimum right-of-way, surface and shoulder width standards. Road surfaces shall 
be capable of providing all weather, year around access as approved by the 
appropriate fire district and the County.  
 
 
            11-6-8 
 
1. Width of Surface:  
 
Design Volume 
        
Design Speed <25      25-25   251-699  700-999  1000-2499  2500-5000   5000+ 
    
20 mph    14    16     20       22         22    24       24 
30 mph    16    18     20       22         22    24       24 
40 mph    18    20     22       22         22    24       24 
50 mph      --    20     22       22         22    24       24+ 
 
 Roads designed to carry a large traffic volume per day at higher speeds 
maybe required to be wider than described. This will be based on a 
determination of the specific design volume, speed, terrain and other 
characteristics to be calculated at the time of development application.  
Public roads, to be owned and maintained by the County, shall be a 
minimum of twenty four feet (24') of paved surface width.   
 
2.  Width of Shoulder:  
 
Design Volume  
        
Design Speed <25      25-250     251-699    700-999    1000-2499    2500-5000     5000+ 
        
All Speeds       1’ to 2’    1’ to 4’      2’ to 4’       2’ to 6’ 2’ to 6’         2’ to 6’         2’ to 8’  
 
Shoulders may be required to be compacted road base, asphalt or other 
suitable hard surface, or a combination thereof.  
 
3.  Width of Right-of-Way: The minimum right-of-way width for a public road 
shall be sixty feet (60'). The requirements may increase as the paved 
surface width increases due to traffic volumes, as described above. The 
minimum right-of-way for private roads shall be double the driving surface 
of the road.  
 
D.  Road Grades: The maximum road grade of an arterial road shall be eight percent 
(8%). On all other roads, a grade of less than eight percent (8%) is encouraged 
and preferred. However, road grades in excess of eight percent (8%), up to a 
maximum of ten percent (10%), may be allowed for short distances when, in the 
opinion of the County, it is in the best interest of preserving the natural 
environment and when approved by the appropriate fire district. Short distances 
shall not exceed five hundred feet (500') within anyone thousand foot (1,000') 
segment.  
 
E.  Intersections: The road grade at an intersection shall not exceed four percent 
(4%) for a minimum distance of one hundred feet (100') on each leg of the 
intersection, and flatter grades are desired.  
 
 
 
 
            11-6-8 
            11-6-9 
 
F.  Turnaround/Cul-De-Sacs: Cul-de-sacs will be a maximum of one thousand three 
hundred feet (1,300') in length for developments with a moderate fire hazard 
rating, nine hundred feet (900') in high fire hazard rated areas, and five hundred 
feet (500') in areas of extreme fire hazard. No cul-de-sac shall have a driving 
surface width of less than twenty feet (20'), and twenty four feet (24') from public 
roads. All cul-de-sacs shall have a turnaround of not less than sixty feet (60') in 
diameter, or as otherwise approved by the fire district, and ninety feet (90') from 
public roads. All cul-de-sacs must have a sign indicating that the road is a "dead 
end" road, to be located within one hundred feet (100') of the outlet. 
 
G.  Bridges and Culverts: Bridges and culverts on public roads shall be designed to 
support an HS-20 highway loading requirement. Permanent culverts will be 
installed at all intermittent and perennial stream crossings. Specifications for 
bridges, culverts and other stream crossings shall take into account at least the 
100-year frequency storm for bridges and the 25-year frequency storm for 
culverts.  
 
H.  Driveway Access: The maximum grade of a driveway shall not exceed ten 
percent (10%). Twelve percent (12%) grades may be allowed for up to but not to 
exceed two hundred fifty (250) lineal feet. The minimum width of a driveway shall 
be twelve feet (12').  
 
I.  Irrigation Ditch Easements: An unobstructed easement at least sixteen (16) feet 
in width, shall be provided and shown on the subdivision plats or site plans, to 
ensure proper access and maintenance of irrigation ditches and canals.  
 
J.  Water Storage for Firefighting Purposes: New development shall be required to 
meet the minimum water storage requirements for firefighting purposes as 
established by the appropriate fire district.  
 
K. Revised Standards Applicable: Development is subject to revised general 
engineering standards and ordinances which are in effect at the time the 
application is submitted for review and approval by the County. (Ord. 278, 5-6-
1996).   
 
L. Appeals:  Appeals of requirements imposed by the North Summit Fire District and 
the Wildland Fire District (Summit County Fire Warden) are made to the Summit 
County Council pursuant to the appeals procedure identified in Section 11-7-17 of 
this Title.  Appeals of requirements imposed by the South Summit Fire District are 
made to the South Summit Fire Commission.   
11-6-9: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:  
A.   Authority:  The County may, but under no circumstances is it required, enter into 
a development agreement with a property owner or applicant for development 
approval.  The County, at its sole discretion, may opt to use a development  
 
 
           
                     11-6-9 
agreement when it determines that such an approach to development promotes 
and protects the public health, safety and general welfare. Development 
agreements shall be used to implement a specific plan under an SPA zoning 
designation, as indicated in Section 11-4-4 of this Title.  (Ord. 305, 2-241997)  
B.   Binding Agreement:  Whenever the County opts to enter into a development 
agreement, the agreement shall constitute a binding contract between the  
applicant and the County. It shall contain those terms and conditions agreed to 
by the applicant and the County.  The agreement shall describe all limitations, 
restrictions and parameters associated with the development of the subject 
property.  The agreement shall describe all processes and procedures for 
obtaining final approval and building permits.  The agreement shall not allow the 
sale or transfer of individual parcels or components of the entire project unless 
specifically provided for in the agreement or as otherwise allowed under State 
law.  
C. Effect of Approval:  Upon approval of the development agreement, it shall 
constitute a vested right in the specific terms and proposals for a period of five 
(5) years from the date of the approval, or longer when specifically allowed in 
the agreement, subject to any conditions agreed to and incorporated into the 
agreement.  
D.   Criteria for Approval:  The criteria for approval are as follows:  
1.   The development agreement has been duly adopted in accordance with 
the provisions stated in this section.  
2.   The development agreement includes written consent by each 
landowner whose properties are included within the area 
described.  
3.   The County Council, after receipt of a recommendation from the Planning 
Commission and review and consideration of the development agreement, 
finds that the specific proposals, terms and conditions contained in the 
agreement promote the intent of the general plan, result in benefits to the 
general public that would not otherwise occur under the literal application 
of this title, and provides a more flexible way to more effectively protect the 
health, safety and general welfare of the public.  
4.   Development allowed under a development agreement shall comply 
with the development evaluation standards in Chapter 2 of this Title, the 
infrastructure standards in Chapter 6 of this Title, and all other criteria 
described in Sections 11-3-9 and 11-4-4 of this Title.  
 
5.   When appropriate, based on the size of the project, the landowner or 
applicant agrees to, at a minimum, contribute all capital improvements 
and facilities necessary to mitigate the impacts of the project on the  
 
 
          
                          11-6-9 
                                   11-6-10 
                                    11-6-11 
 
County and special districts.  
6.   The landowner or applicant will mitigate all fiscal impacts on the general 
public.  
7.   Development shall not be permitted to create unacceptable construction 
management impacts.  
 
8.   While a creative approach to the development and use of the land and 
related physical facilities may be allowed by a development agreement, all 
development approved in the agreement shall meet or exceed 
development quality objectives of the General Plan and this Title, and the 
development quality and aesthetic objectives described in the Snyderville 
Basin General Plan and Title 10 of this Code when the proposed 
development is adjacent to the Snyderville Basin planning district.  
      
9.   The development shall be consistent with the goal of orderly growth and 
minimize construction impacts on public infrastructure within Eastern 
Summit County.  
10.   The development shall protect life and property from natural and 
manmade hazards.  
11.  The development shall prevent harm to neighboring properties and 
lands, including nuisances.  
E.   Procedure for Approving Agreements:  All development agreements shall be 
reviewed and approved in accordance with the procedures for a specially 
planned area, as described in Section 11-3-9 of this Title.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-6-10: RE-APPLICATION FOLLOWING DENIAL:  
If any application for development approval is denied for failure to meet the substantive 
requirements of this title, an application for all or a part of the same property shall not 
be considered for a period of one year from the date of denial unless the subsequent 
application for development is substantially different from the previously denied 
proposal.  (Ord. 278, 5-61996)  
 
11-6-11: REVOCATION OF APPROVALS AND/OR PERMITS: 
 
A.  Authority: An approval or permit may be reconsidered and revoked by the land 
use authority that granted the permit in accordance with the procedures set forth 
herein if it is determined that the application, decision, approval or permit was  
 
 
 
            
           
                                         11-6-11 
                                    11-6-12 
                            
based on materially inaccurate or incomplete information, or where the applicant 
is in violation of the issued permit or approval. 
 
B.  Duties of CDD; Hearing: If the CDD determines, based on inspection by County 
staff, that there are reasonable grounds for revocation of a development permit 
approval authorized by this Title, the CDD shall set a hearing before the land use 
authority that granted the permit. 
 
C.  Notice and Public Hearing:  Reasonable notice of the proceeding to revoke the 
development permit or approval shall be given to the applicant. 
 
D.  Required Findings: The land use authority may revoke the development permit 
upon making one or more of the following findings: 
  
1.  That the development permit was issued on the basis of erroneous or 
misleading information or misrepresentation provided by the applicant; 
 
2.  That the terms or conditions of approval of the permit relating to 
establishment or operation of the use approved have been violated or that  
other laws or regulations of the County, State, Federal or regional 
agencies applicable to the development have been violated. 
 
E.  Decision and Notice:  Within ten (10) working days of the conclusion of the 
hearing, the land use authority shall render a decision, and shall notify the holder 
of the permit and any other person who has filed a written request for such notice 
in the manner provided herein. 
 
F.  Effect:  A decision to revoke a development permit shall become final ten (10) 
days after the date notice of the decision was given. After such effective date, all 
activities pursuant to such permit thereafter shall be deemed in violation of this 
Title. 
 
G.  Right Cumulative: The County's right to revoke a development permit, as 
provided in this Section, shall be cumulative to any other remedy allowed by law. 
Where an applicant is in violation of his permit, the County may deem it a 
violation of this Title and proceed under Section 11-7-14 of this Title.  
11-6-12: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH CONDITIONS:  
Approval of any development may be made with or without conditions, and the failure to 
fully abide by the terms of any conditional approval will result in a forfeiture of any 
vested property right associated with the development approval. (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
 
 
 
           
                 11-6-13 
                           11-6-14 
11-6-13: EFFECTIVE PERIOD OF APPROVALS:  
A.   Sketch Plan Review: Upon the completion of a sketch plan review, a formal 
development application, as required in this title, shall be submitted within six 
(6) months from the completion of the sketch plan review.  
B.   Preliminary Plan:  The approval of a preliminary plan, when required in this title, 
shall be effective for a period of one year from the date of its approval.  At the end 
of the one year period, the applicant shall have submitted a complete application 
for final development review.  If a complete final plan application is not submitted 
within one year, the preliminary approval shall be considered null and void, and 
the applicant shall be required to submit a new sketch plan and development 
application in accordance with the provisions of this Title and General Plan in 
effect at that time.
C. Final Plan; Vested Right:  Upon approval of any final plan/plat, it shall constitute a 
vested right in the specific terms and proposals identified in the approval for a 
period of one (1) year from the date of the approval, at which time the final plat 
shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder. This provision reflects the  
County Council’s position that no developer has a vested right in perpetuity, and 
that in the interest of the health, safety and general welfare, developers must 
proceed with development approvals with due diligence. Therefore, development 
projects, including subdivision plats and site plans, which were approved before 
May 6, 1984, in which no development has taken place, are not entitled to vested 
rights under this title.  The establishment of a vested right does not exempt the 
property owner from requirements for building permits or other necessary 
permits.  The establishment of a vested right shall not preclude the application 
from the requirements of the building code, fire code, plumbing code, electrical 
code, mechanical code or other requirements necessary for the protection of the 
public health, safety and welfare.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
D. Development Permit Extension: One six (6) month extension of a development 
permit may be granted by the CDD upon his finding that special circumstances 
exist which warrant such an extension, including, but not limited to, a delay 
caused by a government review agency or natural disaster.  
11-6-14: COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS:  
A.   Financing: Installation of the improvements required in a development or 
development phase shall be guaranteed by:  
1.   Installation of all required and represented improvements with an 
approved improvement agreement prior to the filing of a final plat or final 
site plan; or  
 
 
                   11-6-14 
2.   Provision of security for installation of improvements.  
B.  Warranty:  All improvements shall be warranted by the applicant for two (2) full 
years normal operation.  The County shall either retain ten percent (10%) of the 
bond or escrow total, or require a bond or escrow equal to ten percent (10%) of 
the required total improvement costs to be maintained for twenty four (24) 
months from the date of completion and acceptance of the improvements by the 
County as warranty should the improvements be defective during the twenty four 
(24) month period.  
C. Maintenance of Private Improvements:  Improvements affecting/serving more 
than one lot and which shall be held privately shall be assigned to an 
appropriate homeowners' association in a dedication, contract, covenant, or 
other agreement.  
D. Revocation:  Failure to properly install, warranty or maintain all required 
improvements shall result in the suspension or revocation of a development 
approval or certificate of occupancy.  
E.   Improvement Agreement and Guarantee of Completion of Public Improvements:  
         
1.   Improvement Agreement:  The developer shall enter into an improvement 
agreement incorporating approved development plans.  The developer  
 shall complete all required improvements no later than twenty-four (24) 
months following the date upon which the final plat is approved.  The 
improvement agreement shall be approved by the County Manager.  The   
 County Manager may also require the property owner to complete and 
dedicate some required improvements prior to any final approval and enter 
into an improvement agreement for completion of the remainder of the 
required improvements during such period.  The improvement agreement 
shall contain such other terms and conditions as are agreed to by the 
property owner and the County.
2.   Covenants to run with the Land:  The improvement agreement shall 
stipulate that the covenants contained therein shall run with the land 
and bind all successors, heirs and assigns.  The improvement 
agreement shall be recorded in the office of the County Recorder and 
on file in the Community Development Department.  All existing lien 
holders shall be required to subordinate their liens to the covenants 
contained in the improvement agreement.  
3.   Security:  Whenever the County permits a developer to enter into an 
improvement agreement after any final approval, it shall require the 
developer to provide sufficient security to ensure completion of the 
required public improvements.  In addition to all other security, for 
completion of those public improvements where the County 
participates in the cost, the owner shall provide a performance bond 
from the contractor, with the County as a co-obligee.  The issuer of  
 
 
         
                       11-6-14 
any surety bond and letter of credit shall be subject to the approval of 
the County Attorney.  The security shall be in the form of either:  
a.  A letter of credit, in the amount of one hundred twenty percent 
(120%) of the estimated cost of improvements, drawn upon a state 
or national bank.  Said letter of credit shall be irrevocable, of a term 
sufficient to cover the completion, plus sixty (60) days, including 
warranty periods, and require only that the County present the 
issuer with a signed draft and a certificate signed by an authorized 
representative of the County certifying to the County's right to draw 
funds under the letter of credit; or  
b.   The establishment of an escrow account or a bond for one hundred 
twenty percent (120%) of the estimated cost of the improvements, 
with a guarantee that all improvements shall be installed within two 
(2) years or the account or bond will be called by the County to 
complete the improvements.   Acceptable escrow agents shall be 
the County Treasurer's Office, or banks or savings institutions 
which are federally insured.  The two (2) year deadline may be 
extended by the County upon a showing of sufficient cause by the 
developer.  But, no additional phase of the development shall be 
permitted during such an extension.  
 
4.   Release of Security:  As portions of the public improvements are 
completed in accordance with the improvement agreement, County 
regulations, and the approved development plans, the developer may  
 make application to the County Engineer to reduce the amount of the 
original letter of credit or cash escrow.  If the County Manager is satisfied 
that such portion of the improvements has been completed in accordance 
with County standards, he/she may cause the amount of the letter of credit 
or cash escrow to be reduced by an amount deemed appropriate, so that 
the remaining amount of the letter of credit or cash escrow adequately 
insures the completion of the remaining public improvements. 
 
5.   Governmental Units:   Governmental units to which these contract and 
security provisions apply may file, in lieu of the security, a certified 
resolution or ordinance from offices or agencies authorized to act in their 
behalf, agreeing to comply with the provisions of this section.  
F.   Failure to Complete Improvements:  If improvements are not completed within the 
period specified by the County for which no improvement agreement has been 
executed and no security has been posted, the final plat or site plan approval 
shall be deemed to have lapsed and shall be null and void, and further 
proceedings on the plat or site plan shall terminate. In those cases where an 
improvement agreement has been executed and security has been posted and 
required public improvements have not been installed within the terms of the  
 
 
           
                                 11-6-14 
agreement, the County may:  
1.   Declare Default:  Declare the agreement to be in default and require that 
all the public improvements be installed regardless of the extent of 
completion of the development at the time the agreement is declared to be 
in default;  
2.   Obtain Funds:  Obtain funds under the security and complete the public 
improvements itself or through a third party;  
3.   Assign Rights:  Assign its right to receive funds under the security to 
any third party, including a subsequent owner of the subdivision for 
which public improvements were not constructed, in whole or in part, in 
exchange for that subsequent owner's promise to complete the public 
improvements on the tract; or  
4.   Other Rights Available:  Exercise any other rights available under the law.  
G.   Temporary Improvements:  The developer shall build and pay for all costs of 
temporary improvements required and shall maintain those temporary 
improvements for the period specified in the final approval.  Prior to construction 
of any temporary facility or improvement, the developer shall file with the County 
a separate improvement agreement and escrow, or, when authorized, a letter of 
credit in an amount equal to one hundred twenty percent (120%) of the 
estimated cost of installation and removal of such temporary facilities.  The 
agreement and escrow or letter of credit shall ensure that the temporary 
facilities will be properly constructed, maintained and removed.  
H.   Acceptance of Dedication Offers:  Acceptance of formal offers of dedication of 
roads, public areas, easements and other facilities shall be by application to the 
CDD or designated planning staff member or County Engineer.  The approval by 
the County Manager of a plat or site plan, whether preliminary or final, shall not 
by itself be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by the County of any 
road, easement or facility shown on the plat or site plan.  
I.   Inspection of Public Improvements:  
1.  General Procedure:  The developer shall be responsible for providing all 
construction surveying, materials testing and construction administration.  
The construction inspection provided by the developer shall be supervised 
by the County Engineer.  Construction shall be in accordance with the 
approved plans and standard specifications and details adopted by the 
County.  Any change in design shall first be approved by the County 
Engineer.  If the County Engineer finds upon inspection that any of the 
required improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the 
County's construction standards and specifications, the developer shall be 
responsible for completing and/or correcting the improvements.  
 
 
          
                11-6-14 
                         11-6-15 
2.   Certificate of Satisfactory Completion:  The County will not accept 
dedication of a required public improvement until the developer's engineer 
or surveyor has certified to the engineer, through submission of a detailed 
as built survey plat of the property, the location, dimensions, materials and 
other information required by the County Manager.  The as built survey 
shall also include a complete set of drawings of the paving, drainage, 
water, sanitary sewer or other public improvements, showing that the 
layout of the line and grade of all public improvements is in accordance 
with construction plans for the plat or site plan.  Each as built sheet shall 
show all changes made in the plans during construction and on each 
sheet there will be an as built stamp bearing the signature of the County 
Engineer and date.  
3.   Acceptance of Improvements:  The developer's engineer shall provide to 
the County two (2) reproducible drawings and a CAD drawing file 
compatible to the County's CAD system, of each of the utility plan sheets 
containing the as built information.  When such requirements have been 
met, and verified by the County Engineer and the CDD or designated 
planning staff member, the County shall thereafter accept the public  
           
improvements for dedication in accordance with the established 
procedure as set forth in this section.  Acceptance of the development 
shall mean that the developer has transferred all rights to that public 
improvement to the County for use and maintenance.  The County 
Manager may, at his/her discretion, accept dedication of a portion of the 
required public improvements, provided adequate surety has been given 
for the completion of all of the required public improvements.  (Ord. 278, 
5-6-1996)  
 
11-6-15: CONSTRUCTION PLANS: 
 
A.  Required; Scale: Construction plans shall be prepared for all required 
improvements and two (2) copies (24" x 36" paper size) shall be submitted to the 
CDD or designated planning staff member. Plans shall be drawn at a scale of no 
more than one inch equals fifty feet (1" = 50'), and map sheets shall be of the 
same size as the plat. The following shall be shown: 
 
1. Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along centerlines of all 
roads. Where a proposed road intersects an existing road or roads, the 
elevation along the centerline of the existing road or roads within one 
hundred feet (100') of the intersection shall be shown. Approximate radii of 
all curves, lengths of tangents, and central angles of all roads shall be 
shown. 
 
 
 
             
         11-6-15 
 
2.  The CDD or designated planning staff member may require, where steep 
slopes exist, that cross sections of all proposed roads be provided at one 
hundred foot (100') stations. The cross sections shall extend at right 
angles from the centerline to twenty five feet (25’) beyond the catch point 
of the cut or fill slope. The cross section shall indicate the location of the 
property lines (right-of-way lines). 
 
3.  Plans and profiles showing the locations and typical cross section of road 
pavements, including curbs and gutters, sidewalks, drainage easements, 
servitudes, rights of way, manholes, and catch basins; the location of road 
lighting standards, and road signs; the location, size, and invert elevations 
of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, storm water drains, and fire 
hydrants, showing connection to any existing or proposed utility systems; 
and exact location and size of all water, gas, or other underground utilities 
or structures. 
 
4.  Location, size, elevation and other appropriate descriptions of any existing 
facilities or utilities, including, but not limited to, existing roads, sewers, 
drains, water mains, easements, water bodies, streams, and other 
pertinent features such as swamps, railroads, buildings, features noted on 
the General Plan at the point of connection to proposed facilities, utilities 
within the subdivision, the water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at  
 the date of the survey, and the approximate high and low water elevations 
of such lakes or streams. All elevations shall be referred to the USGS 
datum plane. If the subdivision borders a lake, river or stream, the 
distances and bearings of a meander line established not less than twenty 
feet (20') back from the ordinary high water mark of such waterways. 
 
5.  Topography at the same scale as the sketch plan with contour intervals of 
two feet (2'), referred to sea level datum. All datum provided shall be latest 
applicable U.S. coast and geodetic survey datum and should be so noted 
on the plat. 
 
6.  All specifications and references required by the County Construction 
Standards and Specifications, including a site grading plan for the entire 
subdivision. 
 
7.  Notation of approval as follows: 
 
                                                        
  Owner Date 
 
                                                         
  County Manager, Date 
   
 
 
 
                   11-6-15 
 
8. Title, name, address and signature of professional engineer and surveyor, 
and revision dates. 
 
B.  Construction Plan Review: 
 
1.  General Application Requirement: Construction plans shall be prepared by 
or under the supervision of a professional engineer or architect registered 
in the state as required by State law governing such professions. Plans 
submitted for review by the County shall be dated and bear the 
responsible engineer's or architect's name, registration number and the 
designation of "professional engineer", "PE" or "architect", and an 
appropriate stamp or statement identifying that the documents are for 
preliminary review and are not intended for construction. Final plans 
acceptable to the County shall bear the seal and signature of the engineer 
or architect and the date signed on all sheets of the plans. Public 
improvements in roads, alleys, rights of way or easements shall be 
designed by a professional engineer registered in the State. 
 
2.  Construction Plan Review Procedure:  Copies of the construction plans 
and the required number of copies of the plat or site plan shall be 
submitted to the CDD or designated planning staff member for final 
approval prior to submittal of a final plat or site plan. The plans shall  
contain all necessary information for construction of the project and other 
special features. Each sheet of the plans shall contain a title block, 
including space for the notation of revisions. This space is to be completed 
with each revision to the plan sheet and shall clearly note the nature of the 
revision and the date the revision was made. The County Engineer will 
release the plans for construction, subject to approval of the final plat or 
site plan by the County Manager and payment of all necessary fees. Upon  
 such release, each contractor shall maintain one set of plans, stamped 
and signed by the County, on the project at all times during construction. 
 
3.  Preconstruction Conference: The County Engineer may require that all 
contractors participating in the construction shall meet for a 
preconstruction conference to discuss the project prior to beginning work. 
 
4. Conditions Prior to Authorization: Prior to authorizing construction, the 
Engineer shall be satisfied that the following conditions have been met: 
 
a.  The subdivision plat or site plan shall have been approved as 
required in this Title. 
 
b.  All required contract documents shall be completed and filed with 
the County Engineer. 
 
 
 
 
         
               11-6-15 
                           11-6-16 
 
c.  All necessary off site easements or dedications required for public 
facilities not shown on the final plat or site plan must be conveyed 
solely to the County, or other agency approved by the County, with 
proper signatures affixed. The original documents and filing fees as 
determined by the CDD or designated planning staff member, shall 
be delivered to the County Engineer prior to approval and release of 
the construction documents. 
 
d. All contractors participating in the construction shall be presented 
with a set of approved plans bearing the stamp of release of the 
County Engineer. These plans shall remain on the job site at all 
times. 
 
e.  A complete list of the contractors, their representatives on the site, 
and telephone numbers where a responsible party may be reached 
at all times must be submitted to the County Engineer. 
 
f.  All applicable fees must be paid to the County.  
11-6-16: ISSUANCE OF BUILDING PERMITS:  
A.   Water, Sewer and Access Requirements:  A building permit will not be issued 
for a new dwelling unit or commercial or industrial structure until all water,  
 sewer/septic and access requirements are met.  
B.  Address:  An address in conformance with the County addressing system must 
be assigned before issuance of a building permit.   
C. Lot Conformance:  Before a building permit can be granted to any property, the 
parcel/lot shall lawfully conform to all applicable provisions of this title (lot of 
record).  There are parcels/lots within Eastern Summit County that while their 
existence may be recorded in the office of the County Recorder, were not 
lawfully created in accordance with the laws of the County.  The County will not 
issue a building permit for such parcels/lots. 
D. Memorandum of Understanding:  A memorandum of understanding shall be 
executed in conformance with Section 11-1-2 or Section 11-1-7 of this Title, 
whichever is applicable, before issuance of a building permit.  
E.  Prior to Completion and Acceptance of Improvements:  Building permits may be 
issued for construction in subdivisions and other projects prior to the completion 
 and acceptance by the County of the required property improvements, provided 
minimum access and safety standards can be met and a bond or escrow fund 
is estimated and established for the required infrastructure.  In such cases, the 
CDD or designated planning staff member may require that the applicant for  
 
 
           
               11-6-16 
  
building permit sign a statement indicating the following:  
1.   The applicant is aware of the terms of the bond or escrow account 
established to guarantee completion of required improvements to 
the satisfaction of the County.  
2.   There may be private infrastructure improvements required in the 
subdivision or project area, which may not be complete, over which the 
County has no influence or authority regarding completion of work and 
that the applicant accepts the associated risk.  
3.   The applicant releases the County from liability for installation, 
maintenance or repair of the required public improvements until the same 
have been completed by the developer or under the terms of the escrow 
agreement, and accepted by the County.  
4.   The applicant assumes all risk in connection with construction on the 
subject property. (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
 
F.  Site Plan Requirements: Three (3) copies of a site plan, a minimum size of 11" x 17" 
(must be legible) and a maximum size of 36" x 48" shall be submitted with all 
building permit applications for all new construction, including additions, accessory 
buildings, and garages.  
 
1. If any of the following criteria apply, the site plan shall be prepared by a 
licensed Surveyor, Architect, Landscape Architect, or Engineer, registered in 
the State of Utah: 
 
a. Parcels/lots that contain a designated building pad identified on a 
subdivision plat.  
 
b. Building Areas or Building Pads having an average grade steeper 
than 5% (some elevation information may be required to verify 
grade). 
 
c. Proposed structure heights greater than twenty eight feet (28'). 
 
d. Proposed structure setbacks closer than three feet (3') to the required 
setback line, excluding decks, lean-tos, or other similar structures.  
 
(1) Agricultural exempt buildings that comply with Section 58-56-4 
of the Utah Code Annotated are excluded from these site plan 
requirements. However, agricultural exempt buildings closer 
than three feet (3’) to the required setback line or are greater 
than twenty-eight feet (28’) in height will require an inspection  
 
 
 
11-6-16 
 
 by the Community Development Department to ensure that 
setback and height requirements for the zone district in which 
they are located are being met. 
 
e. Parcels/lots that do not have existing property corners set by a 
licensed Surveyor. 
 
2. When the site plan is required to be prepared by a licensed Surveyor, 
Architect, Landscape Architect, or Engineer, each copy shall be wet stamped 
by each professional involved in its preparation. Red-line 
corrections/additions to the site plan or elevation page items may be 
accepted if determined by staff to be minor in nature.  All corrections shall be 
approved by the person who stamped the site plan. The site plan shall 
contain the following information: 
 
a. Scale. 
 
b. North Arrow. 
 
c. Information box showing the name of the applicant, subdivision and 
lot number or parcel number (tax i.d. #), address, Section, Township, 
and Range, acreage (or square footage) of the lot or parcel. 
 
d. Map of the parcel.  For parcels larger than 1 Acre, provide larger 
than 1 acre, provide large scale drawing of the entire parcel (ie. 
vicinity map,1”=100’), with bearing and distance calls, and a smaller 
scale (1”=20’), detailed map of the area of the parcel being 
developed.  The map shall contain the following minimum 
information: 
 
(1) Property lines, designated building pad, platted setback lines, 
rights-of-ways and easements, all adjacent streets/roadways. 
 
(2) Proposed setbacks of all new structures to the property lines.  
 
(3) A topographical map, prepared by a licensed Surveyor 
including both existing and proposed contours. Two (2) foot 
minimum contour intervals are required for all parcels/lots 
which have an average grade greater than 5% (some 
elevation information may be required to verify grade) and/or 
structure heights that exceed 28' (measure from the ridgeline 
to existing grade). Existing contours much be shown through 
the proposed structures. 
 
(a) For lots/parcels one (1) acre or less in size, contours 
are required for the entire lot/parcel. 
 
 
 
11-6-16 
 
(b) For lots/parcels greater than one (1) acre in size, 
contours are required 100' on each side of all proposed 
structures and all other areas of disturbance proposed 
for the lot/parcel, such as the driveway, accessory 
structures and yard areas. The contour map must 
include the opposite side of any existing roadway 
adjacent to the property.  
 
(4) One (1) fixed point near the proposed construction labeled 
"Benchmark" showing the elevation. The point may be a 
manhole cover, fire hydrant, or survey pin set so that it cannot 
be removed. The elevation of the point must be identified on a 
stake placed at or near the point.  
 
(5) All elevations for the structure and driveway shall be 
referenced from the Benchmark. 
 
(6) All existing and proposed improvements including structures, 
driveways, and retaining walls. . 
 
(7) All drainage ways, ditches, streams, and wetlands within 200' 
of any proposed structure, area of disturbance and driveway, 
even if located on an adjoining parcel/lot. 
 
(8) The footprint of proposed structures. The footprint shall show 
roof ridge lines and their elevations.  
 
   (9) The proposed driveway width. 
 
   (10) Proposed elevations, including: 
 
    (a) Top of the foundation walls at four major corners.  
 
(b) Roof ridge elevation(s) from existing grade. 
 
    (c) Garage floor elevations. 
 
(d) Center of the driveway at the street, at 20' from the 
street, at each grade break and at the edge of the "flat" 
parking area outside the garage.  
 
(11) An Erosion Control Plan including: 
 
(a) Perimeter controls (straw wattle, straw bales, silt fence) 
on the downhill side of all disturbed areas when 
required by Summit County Code.  
 
 
 
  11-6-16 
 
  (b) Stabilized construction access. 
 
(c) Protection measures of adjoining drainage features 
including storm drain, ditches, streams, etc.  
 
(12) Construction Mitigation Plan that identifies the location of 
dumpster(s), portable toilet(s), material storage, and parking. 
The following notes shall be on the plan: 
 
(a) Construction parking/traffic may not block the street 
without a permit. 
 
(b) Mud tracked onto the street must be cleaned prior to 
the end of the workday. 
 
(c) The construction site must be maintained in a neat 
manner. Trash and other debris may not accumulate 
outside the dumpster. 
 
(d) Roadside parking is not allowed from November 1st thru 
April 1st.  
 
3. Site Plan Certification. When a site plan is prepared by a licensed Surveyor 
in conjunction with an Architect, Landscape Architect, and/or Engineer, the 
site plan must be certified by each of the professionals preparing the site 
plan for that portion of the plan that is their responsibility. The parcel/lot 
survey prepared and certified by the licensed Surveyor, including topography 
may be submitted on a separate sheet from the site plan prepared by the 
Architect, Landscape Architect, and/or Engineer; however, all survey 
information from the parcel/lot survey shall be included on the site plan. 
 
a. A form of the following Certifications must appear on the parcel/lot 
survey and/or site plan. 
 
Surveyor Certificate 
 
I, ____________________________________ do hereby certify that I 
am a licensed Professional Land Surveyor registered in the State of 
Utah, license no. ________________, as prescribed under the laws 
of Utah. I further certify that a survey of the land shown and described 
herein, and that the representation shown on the site plan is a correct 
representation of the land surveyed and has been prepared on 
conformity with the minimum standard and requirements of the Law. 
 
Signature (over seal) 
 
       Date 
 
 
11-6-16 
 
Architect/Landscape Architect/Engineer Certificate 
 
I, ____________________________________ do hereby certify that I 
am a licensed Architect/Landscape Architect/Engineer registered in 
the State of Utah, license no. ________________, as prescribed 
under the laws of Utah. I further certify that I am fully responsible for 
the design of the structure(s), structure location(s), driveway, 
drainage, and other improvements/development to the land shown on 
the site plan. 
Signature (over seal) 
 
       Date 
 
 
 
4. Two (2) copies of the building elevations pages must be submitted with all 
building permit applications. Plans shall provide elevation views of all four (4) 
sides of the building. These views shall identify where the existing and 
proposed grade lines will strike the building wall line. Top of foundation, floor 
lines, eave lines, and ridge lines shall be shown and referenced to the known 
point on the site plan. 
 
5. Certificate of Survey/Elevation. A Certificate of Survey/Elevation of the 
structure shall be submitted whenever a site plan is required to be prepared 
and certified by a licensed Surveyor under the criteria set forth above. The 
Certificate of Survey/Elevation must be prepared by a licensed Surveyor 
registered in the State of Utah.  The Certificate must be submitted prior to 
receiving an inspection of the shear wall or the “4-Way”.  
 
a. The certificate must verify the elevations of the top of foundation 
walls/roof ridge elevations with respect to the existing grades and the 
structure location, with respect to setbacks and shall contain the 
following information.   
 
(1) All property lines and building envelope (if applicable) when 
the parcel is one (1) acre or less. When the parcel is larger 
than one (1) acre, the two (2) closest property lines and 
building envelope (if applicable).  
 
  (2) Required setback lines. 
 
  (3) Structure footprint. 
 
(4) Dimension lines from the structure to all shown property lines 
(see 4(a)(1) above). 
 
 
 
 
11-6-16 
11-6-17 
 
(5) “As-constructed” top of foundation elevations or top of roof 
ridge elevations. 
 
b. An original wet-stamped copy of the Certificate of Survey/Elevation 
must be submitted to the Building Department and Engineering 
Department prior to requesting a sheer-wall inspection. 
 
c. A form of the following Certification must appear on the Survey.  
 
 
Certificate of Survey/Elevation 
 
I, ____________________________________ do hereby certify that I 
am a licensed Professional Land Surveyor/Engineer registered in the 
State of Utah, license no. ________________, as prescribed under 
the laws of Utah. I further certify that I have reviewed the plans for 
Permit No. _________, located at (street address) 
_______________________________________ on Lot 
______________ of the ___________________________________ 
Subdivision and have surveyed the property to verify that the 
structure is situated on the lot as shown on this map. I further certify 
that the elevations of the foundation walls and roof ridges are as 
shown on this map.  
 
       Signature (over seal) 
 
       Date 
11-6-17: PROJECT CLOSURE DUE TO INACTION: 
A.   Recognizing the length of the planning review process will vary with the size and 
complexity of each proposal, applicants must move their applications either to 
approval or denial in a reasonably expeditious manner.  The County may close 
applications which remain inactive for nine (9) months or longer due to acts of 
omissions by the applicant. 
1.   When the CDD or designated planning staff member determines an 
application inactive, he/she may close the files with respect to the 
application.  No application may be closed on the basis of inaction without 
giving 21 calendar days certified written notice to the applicant.  Such 
notice must state the intent of the CDD or designated planning staff 
member to have the project closed because of inaction and what the 
applicant must submit in order to maintain an active file status. 
2.   An application shall be deemed inactive and subject to closure on the  
 
 
11-6-17 
11-6-18 
 basis of inactivity if, through the act or omission of the applicant and not 
the County: 
a.   More than nine (9) months have passed since the last meeting of 
Staff and the applicant. 
b.   More than nine (9) months have passed since a request for 
additional information was made by Staff, which request has not 
been complied with or reasons for non-compliance are not stated or 
indicated by the applicant. 
c.   The applicant is more than thirty (30) days in default of the payment 
of any fee assessed by ordinance. 
d.   The applicant has stated intent to abandon the project. 
Delays caused entirely by internal delays of the CDD or designated 
planning staff member, Planning Commission, County Manager, County 
Council, or Board of Adjustment shall not be a cause for file closure. 
11-6-18: RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES FOR ELDERLY OR   
  DISABLED: 
A.   A Residential Care Facility for the elderly or disabled may be established unless: 
1. A Conditional Use Permit has been issued; 
2.   Development review and approval of a final site plan has occurred and a 
building permit has been issued. 
B.   Residential Care Facilities shall be permitted in accordance with the Chart of 
Allowed and Conditional Uses provided they are: 
1.  Licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services; 
 
2.   Reasonably dispersed throughout the County and the facility is not within 
three-fourths (3/4) of a mile of another Residential Care Facility for elderly 
persons or disabled; 
 
3.   Limited by the number of occupants with a minimum of four (4) occupants. 
The maximum number of occupants shall be determined by the amount of 
bedrooms with no more than two (2) occupants per bedroom; 
4.   The facility is capable of use as a Residential Care Facility without 
structural alterations to an existing building or landscaping that would  
 
 
                  11-6-18 
 change the structure’s residential character or impose adverse impacts to 
the residential neighborhood; 
5.   The traffic flow will not negatively impact the existing residential 
neighborhood and adequate off-street parking space has been provided in 
accordance with the provisions of this Title; 
6.   No person being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse will be placed in a 
residential care facility for elderly persons; 
7.   Placement in a Residential Care Facility for disabled and elderly persons 
is on a strictly voluntary basis and is not part of, or in lieu of, confinement, 
rehabilitation or treatment in a correctional facility. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
                     11-7-1 
                     11-7-2 
 
CHAPTER 7 
GENERAL PROVISIONS 
 
SECTION: 
 
11-7-1: Short Title 
11-7-2: Statement of Purpose 
11-7-3: Applicability 
11-7-4: Development Review Fees 
11-7-5: Planning Commission 
11-7-6: Joint Planning 
11-7-7: Board of Adjustment 
11-7-8: Conflict 
11-7-9: Effect on Previous Ordinances 
11-7-10: Penalty 
11-7-11: Interpretation 
11-7-12: Severability 
11-7-13: Vested Rights Determination 
11-7-14: Enforcement 
11-7-15: Violations and Penalties 
11-7-16: Remedies 
11-7-17: Appeal Procedures 
 
11-7-1: SHORT TITLE:  
This title shall be known as THE EASTERN SUMMIT COUNTY DEVELOPMENT 
CODE, and is referred to herein as "this Title".  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-7-2: STATEMENT OF PURPOSE:  
A. The Eastern Summit County General Plan (hereafter referred to as "the General 
Plan"), was developed to ensure that the rural, agricultural and small town 
character of the eastern portion of the county shall remain.  It is the intent of the 
county, in adopting this Title, to fully exercise all of the powers granted to it by the 
provision of Utah Code Annotated Title 17, for the appropriate regulation of 
development and changes and improvements to land use within the eastern 
portion of the county.  
B.  The intention of the county is to assure the managed, proper and sensitive 
development of land and to protect and enhance the rural, agricultural and small 
town qualities and lifestyle that exist.  This Title is intended to allow development 
in a manner that encourages the preservation of agricultural lands; the logical 
and appropriate growth of the incorporated towns in Eastern Summit County; is   
 
 
                         
            11-7-3 
           11-7-4 
           11-7-5 
 flexible with regard to location so long as a land use is compatible with its 
surroundings; preserves the natural resources; secures economy in county and 
municipal expenditures in providing adequate transportation, public safety, and other 
public services; and promotes a diverse population and economy.  This Title seeks 
to prevent or minimize development where it will otherwise increase potential 
dangers to life and safety of existing and future residents; adversely influences 
critical wildlife habitats and environmentally sensitive areas; requires substantial 
expenditures by the county to serve and protect and detracts from the rural, 
agricultural  and small town character of Eastern Summit County. (Ord. 278, 5-6-
1996)  
11-7-3: APPLICABILITY:  
This Title and the Zone District Map shall be applicable to the geographic portion of the 
county commonly referred to as Eastern Summit County, inclusive of the whole of the 
county, except the Snyderville Basin, which coincides with the Park City School District 
boundary.   
11-7-4: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW FEES:  
From time to time the County Council may establish fees to be paid by applicants to 
the county for the purpose of covering specific county costs incurred during the review 
and processing of an application hereunder.  The amount to be charged by the county 
shall be established by resolution of the County Council. (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-7-5: PLANNING COMMISSION:  
A. Creation:  
1. There is hereby created an Eastern Summit County Planning District; 
consisting of the area described in Section 11-7-3 of this Chapter.  
2. There is hereby established an Eastern Summit County Planning 
District Planning Commission ("Planning Commission").  
B. Powers and Duties: 
     The Planning Commission shall have the following powers and duties:  
1. To prepare or cause to be prepared a General Plan or element thereof and 
to recommend the proposed General Plan or element to the County 
Council;  
 
 
                      
                                   11-7-5  
2. To prepare or cause to be prepared amendments to the General Plan or 
elements thereof and to recommend the amendments to the County 
Council;  
3. To review and make recommendations to the County Council in regard 
to amendments to the Zone District Map;  
4. To initiate, hear, review and make recommendations to the  
County Council on applications for amendments to this title;  
5. To initiate a subpoena to compel documents and testimony 
required in the normal processing and review of matters 
pertaining to the Planning Commission;  
6. To hear, review and approve or disapprove all applications for conditional 
uses and long term temporary uses.  To hear, review and recommend 
approval or disapproval of all applications for minor subdivision of 
property, cluster bonus/agricultural preservation subdivisions, major 
development review, development agreements or other procedures 
identified in this Title, in accordance with the rules and regulations 
established by the County Council and as stated in this Title; and  
 
7. To adopt bylaws, policies, procedures and regulations for the conduct of 
its meetings, the consideration of applications for development approval, 
and for any other purposes deemed necessary for the functioning of the 
Planning Commission; provided, however, that the bylaws, policies, 
procedures and regulations shall be consistent with this title and shall be 
approved by the County Manager before taking effect.  
C. Qualifications for Membership:  Members of the Planning Commission shall be 
residents of the Eastern Summit County Planning District for one year prior to 
appointment and shall remain a resident of the Eastern Summit County Planning 
District throughout their term.  
D. Membership; Appointment, Terms, Removal, Vacancies and Compensation:  
1. The Planning Commission shall be composed of seven (7) members to 
be appointed by the County Council. Any vacancy in the membership of 
the Planning Commission shall be advertised by posting and publication 
in a newspaper of general circulation and applications accepted for a 
minimum of fourteen (14) days following such application and posting.   
Reappointments of existing Planning Commission members may be 
made by the County Council.  In making appointment to the Planning 
Commission, the  County Council shall assure diversity in the 
membership of the commission to the extent reasonably practicable by 
considering all relevant factors such as geographic diversity, 
occupational diversity, socioeconomic factors, cultural influences, and  
 
 
11-7-5 
 other similar criteria.  
2. All members of the Planning Commission shall serve at the pleasure of 
the County Council and may be removed by a majority vote of the  
County Council.  
3. Members may be compensated per diem, based upon meetings 
attended and reasonable and necessary expenses, as 
determined by the County Council.  
4. All members shall serve a term of three (3) years, except that in the case 
of the first Planning Commission appointed under the provisions of this 
section, two (2) members shall be appointed for an initial term of one year, 
two (2) members shall be appointed for an initial term of two (2) years, and 
three (3) members shall be appointed for an initial term of three (3) years.  
Any vacancy created during the term of a member shall be filled for only 
the remainder of the unexpired portion of that term.  No member shall 
serve more than three (3) consecutive terms, including portions of 
unexpired terms. 
5. At the first meeting held in March, after the appointment of any new 
members, the members of the Planning Commission shall elect one of its 
members as Chair and one member as Vice Chair. In the absence of the 
Chair, the Vice Chair shall act as Chair and shall have all powers of the 
Chair.  The Chair shall serve a term of one year.  No member shall serve 
as Chair for more than two (2) consecutive one year terms.  
6.  The Chair, or in the Chair's absence the Vice Chair, shall be in charge 
of all proceedings before the Planning Commission, and shall take such 
action as shall be necessary to preserve order and the integrity of all 
proceedings before the Planning Commission.  
7. The CDD or designated planning staff member shall maintain attendance 
records of members. If any member of the Planning Commission shall fail 
to attend three (3) regular meetings of the Planning Commission within 
any consecutive three (3) month period, the CDD or designated planning 
staff member shall immediately file a notification of such nonattendance 
with the County Manager for placement on the agenda of the County 
Council.  The County Council may, by appropriate action, terminate the 
appointment of such person and fill the vacancy thereby created as soon 
as practical.  
E. Recording Secretary:  The CDD or designated planning staff member shall 
appoint a recording secretary to serve the Planning Commission.  The secretary 
shall keep minutes of all proceedings of the Planning Commission, which 
minutes shall be a summary of all proceedings before the Planning Commission, 
attested to by a majority of the members of the Planning Commission voting.  In 
addition, the recording secretary shall maintain all records of the Planning  
 
 
11-7-5 
11-7-6 
 Commission meetings, hearings and proceedings, the correspondence of the 
Planning Commission, and a mailing list of persons registering to receive notices 
of meetings, agendas or minutes and who have paid an annual fee set by the  
County Council to solely cover the copying and mailing cost for receiving all 
notices and agendas.  
F. Planning Commission Staff:  The Community Development Department  
 shall be the professional staff of the Planning Commission.  
G. Quorum and Necessary Vote:  No meeting of the Planning 
Commission may be called to order without a quorum consisting of at 
least four (4) members of the Planning Commission being present.  
No business shall be transacted without at least a majority of all 
members being present.  All actions shall require the concurring vote 
of a majority of the members present, unless stricter voting 
procedures are established by the Planning Commission.  The Chair 
shall be considered for purposes of establishing a quorum and shall 
act as a voting member.  
H. Meetings, Hearings and Procedures:  
1. The Planning Commission shall establish a regular meeting schedule.  
Special meetings, work sessions and field trips for any purpose, may be 
held at the call of the County Council, County Manager, the members of 
the Planning Commission or the CDD or designated planning staff 
member.  
2. If a matter is postponed due to lack of quorum, the matter shall be 
rescheduled to the next regular meeting.  The CDD or designated 
planning staff member shall notify all members and interested parties 
of the date of the rescheduled matter.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-7-6: JOINT PLANNING:  
 
In order to provide for coordination and a means to adequately address matters that 
overlap planning district boundaries, the County Council is authorized to require joint 
planning meetings for such matters. The CDD or designated planning staff member 
shall notify the County Council of such matters and the County Council shall then 
determine whether joint planning sessions are required. The purpose of joint planning 
meetings is to provide for discussion among Planning Commission members of different 
planning districts, public officials, developers and the public on various issues related to 
the matter in question.  Notice of such joint planning sessions shall be for the purpose of 
discussion and education and are not intended to result in any formal recommendation 
during the joint planning sessions, although information presented at such sessions may 
be made part of the record of subsequent proceedings of either district Planning 
Commission related to the matter in question.  Upon completion of the joint planning 
sessions, the Planning Commission shall take action or make a recommendation on  
 
 
11-7-6 
11-7-7 
 
matters as required under this Title.  At least one joint planning meeting shall be held  
annually to provide for discussion and coordination among Planning Commission 
members of each planning district, the Community Development Department, the 
County Council, County Manager, and members of the public regarding issues of 
countywide concern.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
11-7-7: BOARD OF ADJUSTMENT:  
A. Appointment:  The County Manager, with the advice and consent of the County 
Council, shall appoint five (5) members to the Board of Adjustment for three (3) 
year terms, or until the member's successor is appointed. Members shall serve 
no more than three (3) consecutive terms.   
B. Removal: The County Manager may remove any member for intentional 
misconduct or neglect of duty. Violation of County policies shall be tantamount to 
misconduct hereunder, and failure to attend two (2) consecutive Board meetings 
shall be tantamount to the neglect of duty hereunder. The CDD or designated 
planning staff member shall immediately file a notification of such nonattendance 
with the County Manager. The County Manager may, by appropriate action, 
terminate the appointment of such person and fill the vacancy thereby created as 
soon as possible for the unexpired term.  
C. Officers: The members shall annually select a chair and vice chair for one (1) 
year terms. 
D. Vacancies: Vacancies on the Board occasioned by removals, resignations, or 
otherwise, shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the 
original appointments. 
E. Powers and Duties:    
1. The Board of Adjustment shall hear and decide:  
a. Variances from the terms of the zoning provisions established in 
Chapter 3 of this Title, said variances to be only granted pursuant 
to the provisions of this Title regarding variances. 
2. The Board of Adjustment shall not have the power, jurisdiction or authority 
to consider any of the following:  
a. Variances to the standards governing approval of subdivisions, 
site plans, specially planned area plans, consent agreements, 
levels of service, or Conditional Use Permits;  
b. Amendments to the Eastern Summit County General Plan and 
any element or map thereof, including permissible use of land 
within any land use category or zoning district; or  
 
 
        11-7-7  
11-7-8 
11-7-9 
11-7-10 
c. Variances from the use provisions of the zoning regulations.  
F. Staff:  The Community Development Department shall be and serve as the 
professional staff of the Board of Adjustment. (Ord. 531, 2-9-2005)  
G. Meetings: 
1. The Board shall meet monthly and conduct business in compliance with 
the Utah Open Meetings Act, including public notification of meeting 
places, times, and agenda items. 
2. Written minutes of each Board meeting shall be prepared, preserved, and 
made available for public inspection. 
3. The attendance of three (3) or more members of the Board shall constitute 
a quorum. All official acts of the Board shall be by majority vote of those 
then present. 
H. Qualifications for Membership: Members of the BOA shall be residents of the 
County for one year prior to their appointment and shall remain residents of the 
County throughout their terms. 
 
11-7-8: CONFLICT:  
The provisions of this Title are in addition to all other county ordinances and the 
laws of the state.  Whenever a conflict exists, the more restrictive provision shall 
apply to the extent allowed by law.  (Ord. 278,5-6-1996)  
11-7-9: EFFECT ON PREVIOUS ORDINANCES:  
This Title supersedes the Development Code of Summit County, adopted in August 
1977, as thereafter amended, and the zoning maps which accompanied said Code.  
Structures that were lawfully built prior to the adoption of this Title, or for which building 
permits were issued and on which work commenced as required under the permit shall, 
to the extent they do not conform to this Title, be considered as legal, non-conforming 
uses, and shall not be affected. Uses which were not lawfully established under the 
previous Code and which do not conform to this Title are non-conforming uses, unless 
this Title is changed in a manner that makes the use conform to this Title.  (Ord. 278, 5-
6-1996)  
11-7-10: PENALTY:  
A. Whenever under the provision of the Code an act is prohibited or whenever 
under these regulations the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any  
 
 
                            11-7-10 
                    11-7-11 
                    11-7-12 
                    11-7-13 
 act is declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefore, each 
violation of any such provision of this Title shall be a Class C misdemeanor, 
subject to penalty as provided in Section 1-4-1 of this Code.   Each day a 
violation of these regulations continues shall constitute a separate offense, 
unless otherwise prohibited.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996; amd. 2004 Code)  
B. The County Attorney reserves the right to enforce this Title using any of the 
remedies provided for in Utah Code Annotated, Section 17-27-1002.  (Ord. 278, 
5-6-1996)  
11-7-11: INTERPRETATION:  
The Director shall be responsible for interpreting the provisions of this Title.  Any final 
decision of the Director with regard to the interpretation of this Title may be appealed to 
the County Council.  The appeal shall be made in writing no later than ten (10) days of 
the date of the decision.  The appeal shall state the basis of the appeal in detail. The 
appeal shall be heard by the County Council at a regularly scheduled meeting as soon 
thereafter as may be practicable.  (Ord. 470, 11-19-2003)  
11-7-12: SEVERABILITY:  
 
The provisions of this Title are declared to be severable, and if any section, provision or 
part thereof shall be held unconstitutional or invalid, the remainder of this Title shall 
continue in full force and effect, it being the legislative intent that this Title would have 
been adopted even if such unconstitutional matter had not been included therein.  It is 
further declared that, if any provision or part of this Title, or the application thereof to any 
person or circumstances, is held invalid, the remainder of the application thereof to other 
persons shall not be affected thereby.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996)  
 
11-7-13: VESTED RIGHTS DETERMINATION: 
 
It is the intent of the county to review applications for development that were made prior 
to the adoption of this title under the provisions of the Code then in effect, so long as the 
application was determined to be complete prior to this Title.  Applications submitted 
after the effective date hereof shall be reviewed under the provisions herein.  The 
County Council shall develop a procedure for considering any vested rights claims that 
are affected by the approval of this Title and to effectuate public policy favoring the 
settlement disputes.  Said procedure may include the processing of consent 
agreements for the settlement of disputes pertaining to vested rights or other legal 
claims arising from this Title.  It is the intent of the county to adjudge vested rights in 
accordance with state law, and nothing in this section should be read or construed as 
suggesting a standard different from that provided by such state law.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-
1996 ) 
 
 
 
 
                  11-7-14 
                    11-7-15 
 
11-7-14: ENFORCEMENT: 
 
A.  Generally: This Title may be enforced by the County by any appropriate means 
authorized by State law and County ordinances, including, but not limited to, 
injunctive relief, fines, withholding of building permits and revocation of 
approvals/permits. 
 
B.  Duties of CDD: It shall be the duty of the CDD or designated planning staff 
member to enforce these requirements and to bring to the attention of the County 
Attorney or his designated agent any violations of this Title. 
 
C.  Civil Enforcement: Appropriate actions and proceedings may be taken in law or 
in equity to prevent any violation of this Title, to prevent unlawful construction, to 
recover damages, to restrain, correct or abate a violation and to prevent illegal 
occupancy of buildings, structures or premises. These remedies shall be in 
addition to the penalties described above. 
 
D. Stay Order: Notwithstanding any provision of this Title to the contrary, in order to 
maintain the status quo pending the appeal of any decision hereunder or 
otherwise, the CDD or designated planning staff member may issue a stay order 
mandating that all development activities cease in accordance with the terms of 
the order. Said stay order may be appealed to the County Council within five (5) 
days of the receipt thereof by an aggrieved person.  
 
11-7-15:  VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES: 
 
A.  Whenever under the provision of this Title an act is prohibited or whenever under 
these regulations the doing of any act is required or the failure to do any act is 
declared to be unlawful, and no specific penalty is provided therefore, each 
violation of any such provision of this Title shall be a Class C misdemeanor, 
subject to penalty as provided in Section 1-4-1 of this Code. Each day a violation 
of these regulations continues shall constitute a separate offense, unless 
otherwise prohibited.  
 
B.  The County Attorney reserves the right to enforce this Title using any of the 
remedies provided for in Utah Code Annotated, Section 17-27-1002. 
 
C.  Businesses in violation of this Title shall be subject to license revocation 
proceedings in accordance with the provisions of Title 3, Chapter 1 of this  
 Code. Such business shall also be subject to Conditional Use Permit revocation 
proceedings in accordance with the provisions of the applicable development 
code. Where revocations occur, those businesses which are legal non-
conforming under the current development code shall thereafter cease to be 
legal non-conforming uses within the County. 
 
 
 
                    11-7-15 
                    11-7-16 
                    11-7-17 
 
D.  Sexually oriented business employees in violation of this Title shall be subject to 
license revocation proceedings. A hearing shall be afforded to the individual by 
the county Manager, or by an official whom the Manager may designate. The 
individual shall be given written notice of the violation and an opportunity to be 
heard before the County Manager or designated hearing official. 
 
E.  It shall be unlawful to submit false or materially misleading information on or with 
a Conditional Use Permit application for an adult/sex oriented facility or business 
or to fail to disclose or omit information for the purpose of obtaining said permit. 
 
F.  Prior to any permit or license revocation hearing, as provided for by the 
applicable Development Code, County Business License Ordinance1, or this 
Title, a stay of enforcement action shall be granted, pending the outcome of the 
hearing and subsequent appeals, upon written application to the County by the 
permit or license holder.  
 
11-7-16: REMEDIES: 
 
No person may challenge in District Court a land use decision under this Title until they 
have exhausted all of their administrative remedies provided herein.  Any person 
adversely affected by any final administrative decision made pursuant to this Title must 
file a petition for review of that final decision with the District Court within thirty (30) days 
and comply with all other requirements of Utah Code Annotated, Section 17-27-1001.   
Failure to comply with this section of the state law divests the District Court of subject 
matter jurisdiction to review decisions of the county.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996) 
11-7-17: APPEAL PROCEDURES:  
A. Appeals of administrative, Commission, Board of Adjustment, and County 
Council actions shall occur as follows in the appeals chart:  
 
 
Decision 
 Maker 
Action Form of 
Appeal 
Appeal  
Period 
Appellate  
Body 
Comments 
CDD  Form to the 
CDD 
10 Calendar 
Days 
County  
Council 
If the appeal 
is for a 
decision 
regarding a 
Building 
Permit, the 
Permit shall 
                                                 
1. See title 3, chapter 1 of this code. 
 
 
Decision 
 Maker 
Action Form of 
Appeal 
Appeal  
Period 
Appellate  
Body 
Comments 
be stayed 
until action 
is taken. 
Commission  Form to the 
CDD 
 
10 Calendar 
Days 
County 
 Council 
If the appeal 
is for a 
decision 
regarding a 
CUP, the 
CUP shall 
be stayed 
until action 
is taken.  
The County 
Council has 
to schedule 
the appeal 
within 30 
days from 
the date of 
the appeal. 
County 
Manager 
 Form to the 
CDD 
 
10 Calendar 
Days 
 
County 
Council 
 
 
 
 
 
County 
Manager 
Amendments 
to a road 
within a 
subdivision, 
including 
road 
vacations. 
Court Filing 30 Days District 
Court 
In 
accordance 
with Utah 
Code, as 
amended. 
County 
Manager 
Enforcement 
Actions 
Court Filing 30 Days District 
Court 
In 
accordance 
with Utah 
Code, as 
amended. 
County 
Council 
 Court Filing 30 Days District 
Court 
In 
accordance 
with Utah 
Code, as 
amended. 
Board of 
Adjustment  
 Court Filing 30 Days District 
Court 
In 
accordance 
with Utah 
Code, as 
amended. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
APPENDIX A 
 DEFINITIONS 
For the purpose of these regulations, certain numbers, abbreviations, terms and 
words used herein shall be used, interpreted and defined as set forth in this 
appendix. Where definitions are given in another chapter or section of this title that 
apply to only that section or chapter, those definitions shall apply first.  
Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, words used in the present tense 
include the future tense; words used in the plural number include singular; the word 
"herein" means "in these regulations"; the word "regulation" means "these regulations" 
the word "Code" means "the Eastern Summit County Development Code" or "this 
Title".  
A "person" includes a corporation, a partnership, a limited company, a limited liability 
company, and an incorporated association of persons such as a club; "shall" is always 
mandatory; a "building" includes "structure"; a "building" or "structure" includes any part 
thereof; "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land designed to be used or occupied.  
ACCESS:  The provision of vehicular and/or pedestrian ingress and egress to 
structures or facilities.  
ACCESSORY BUILDING:  A building upon the same lot (or on a contiguous lot under 
the same ownership) as the principal building and which is: a) clearly incidental to, and 
customarily found in connection with, such principal building or use; and b) is operated 
and maintained for the benefit or convenience of the owners, occupants, employees, 
customers or visitors of the lot with the principal use.  
ACCESSORY USE:  A use conducted on the same lot as the principal use or 
structure with which it is associated; and is a use which is clearly incidental to and is 
customarily found in connection with such principal use, and is either in the same 
ownership as such principal use or is maintained and operated on the same lot 
substantially for the benefit or convenience of the owners, occupants, employees, 
customers or visitors of the principal use.  No accessory use shall be allowed on any 
lot or parcel unless the permitted use is 
being actively utilized.  
ADMINISTRATIVE PERMIT:  A permit issued by the planning staff, Community 
Development Director or building official for specified uses after compliance with 
applicable zoning or development code regulations is determined.  
AGRICULTURE:  The tilling of the soil, raising of crops, forage, grazing and 
animals/fish for commercial agricultural purposes, and not including logging, animal 
hospitals, recreational activity not normally associated with a farm/ranch, or similar 
uses.  It must be demonstrated that water rights and sources exist to sustain the 
existing agricultural use of the property. In the case of dry farm usage, it must be 
demonstrated that the land has been tilled and produced a mechanically harvested crop 
within the immediately proceeding three (3) years and that the land qualifies for 
greenbelt designation.  
AGRICULTURE ADVISORY BOARD:  The Agriculture Advisory Board (Advisory 
Board) as so designated by the County Manager for the purposes of assisting in the 
 
 
implementation of the agricultural protection measures and incentives described in 
this title.  
ANCILLARY SUPPORT BUILDING:  A building which is subordinate to a utility tower, 
necessary for the normal function of the utility tower and located on the same site as 
the utility tower.  
ANTENNA:  Any system of wires, poles, rods, arms, reflecting discs or similar devices 
of various sizes, materials and shapes, including, but not limited to, solid or wire mesh 
dish, cone, spherical or bar configurations used for wireless transmission.  Types of 
antennas include, but are not limited to, the following:  
A.  Roof Mounted Antenna:  An antenna mounted directly to the roof of a 
building, mechanical penthouse or parapet enclosure wall which is on the 
rooftop of a building.  
B.  Top Hat Antenna:  Spatial array of antennas, generally located on a 
freestanding structure, where the visible width of antennas and antenna mounting 
structures are more than two feet (2') in width as viewed looking directly at the 
structure.  
C.  Wall Mounted Antenna:  Any antenna mounted directly to the fascia or outside 
walls of a structure, existing parapet walls, penthouses, or mechanical equipment 
rooms, with no portion of the antenna extending above the roofline of such 
structures.  
ANTENNA SUPPORT STRUCTURE:  A structure, the principal purpose of which is for 
location of antennas.  Types of antenna support structures may include:  
A.  Lattice Tower:  A multiple sided, open steel frame structure used to support one 
or more antennas.  
B.  Monopole:  A standing antenna support structure placed directly on the ground to 
support one or more antennas.  
APPLICANT:  The owner of land proposed to be subdivided and/or developed or 
his/her representative.  Consent shall be required from the legal owner of the 
premises.  
 
APPLICATION:  A form or checklist supplied by the Community Development 
Department, indicating the data and information necessary to process the 
applicant's proposed project.  
ARTERIAL:  Any road intended to provide direct year around connection to other 
jurisdictions, or which links such roads, and is intended or used primarily for free 
flowing traffic movement. Traffic velocity is generally greatest on arterial roads, due 
primarily to road design.  
 
 
ATTACHED BUILDING:  Units connected on one or more sides to an adjacent unit or 
units by a common party wall with separate exterior entrance for all units.  This shall 
apply to commercial as well as residential units.  
 
AUTO IMPOUNDMENT YARD AND ASSOCIATED TOWING SERVICES: An 
outdoor storage facility for impound of automobiles brought there by a towing service. 
 
AUTOMOTIVE SALES: An establishment primarily engaged in the sale or rental of 
automobiles, noncommercial trucks, motorcycles, motor homes, recreational vehicles, 
or boats, including incidental storage, maintenance, and servicing. Typical uses include 
new and used car dealerships, motorcycle dealerships, and boat, trailer, or recreational 
vehicle dealerships.  
 
AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR, SERVICE AND DETAILING: An establishment primarily 
engaged in the repair of automobiles, noncommercial trucks, motorcycles, motor 
homes, recreational vehicles, or boats, including the sale, installation, and servicing of 
equipment and parts. Typical uses include muffler shops, auto repair garages, tire sales 
and installation, wheel and brake shops, body and fender 
shops, and similar repair and service activities, but excluding 
dismantling or salvage. 
 
AUTO WRECKING YARD: The dismantling or wrecking of used motor vehicles or 
trailers, or the storage, sale, or dumping of dismantled or wrecked vehicles or their 
parts. 
 
BANKS AND FINANCIAL SERVICES: An establishment primarily engaged in the 
provision of financial and banking services. Typical uses include banks, savings and 
loan institutions, stock and bond broker’s loan and lending activities. 
 
BARS, TAVERNS, PRIVATE CLUBS: An establishment serving alcoholic beverages for 
consumption on the premises.  
BED AND BREAKFAST INNS:  A dwelling, including those dwellings of historical 
significance, in which two (2) to eight (8) rooms are rented out by the day, offering 
overnight lodging to travelers, and where one or more meals are provided to the 
guests only, the price of which may be included in the room rate.  
BUILDING:  Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of persons, 
animals, chattels or movable property of any kind.  
BUILDING ENVELOPE:  The building envelope denotes that area within which a 
structure must be located. A building envelope is designated by building setback lines 
or can be shown specifically on a subdivision plat.  
BUSINESS:  Any business, profession, occupation or activity engaged in by a person 
with the objective of profit, gain, benefit or advantage, direct or indirect, which is 
 
 
conducted within Eastern Summit County.  
BUTCHER, RETAIL: An establishment for small-scale slaughtering of animals, dressing 
their flesh, and meat sales.  
CELL ON WHEELS (COW):  A mobile temporary telecommunications facility which is 
located on a trailer.  
 
CHILD CARE, IN-HOME (4 CHILDREN OR LESS): Providing child care services within 
a dwelling home for four or less children. 
 
CHILD CARE, FAMILY (FEWER THAN 9 CHILDREN): A child care facility operated by 
a party who resides at the premises used for child care services, which provides service 
for fewer than nine children. 
 
CHILD CARE, FAMILY (WITH 9-16 CHILDREN): Providing child care services within a 
dwelling that is licensed by the state wherein are received nine or more children  under 
17 years of age who are not related to such person and whose parents or guardians are 
not residents in the same house with such person responsible for the control and care 
of children enrolled therein. 
 
CHILD CARE, COMMERCIAL: Providing child care services within a commercial 
establishment that is licensed by the state wherein are received children under 17 years 
of age. 
COLLECTOR ROAD:  A road intended to move traffic from local roads to arterial 
roads. Collector roads typically collect traffic from a neighborhood or large subdivision 
and provide a connection to the arterial road system.  
COLOCATION:  A telecommunications facility includes a single antenna support 
structure, but more than one telecommunications provider's antennas and 
telecommunication equipment.  
COMMERCIAL KENNEL:  Any premises, except where accessory to an agricultural 
use, where five (5) or more dogs, over four (4) months of age are boarded, trained, 
groomed, bred, and/or offered for sale for commercial use.  The selling of one (1) litter 
of offspring per year, per premise, shall not be construed as commercial. 
 
COMMERCIAL RIDING ARENA: An establishment for boarding, breeding or raising or 
horses not owned by the occupants that includes rental of horses and includes a 
training program and riding lessons. 
COMMON OPEN SPACE:  Facilities, land and yard areas identified within projects for 
the use and enjoyment of all the residents and maintained and operated by an 
organization of property holders of the project.  
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DIRECTOR:  The Director of the Community 
Development Department, with overall administrative control of the planning, building 
 
 
and zoning functions of the county, under the direction of the County Manager.  
CONDITIONAL USE:  Those uses which are permitted in a particular zone district 
upon showing that such use at a specific site within that zone district will comply with 
all conditions and standards specified in this title for ensuring compatibility with 
surrounding land uses.  
CONDOMINIUM:  Any structure which has been submitted to condominium 
ownership under the provisions of the Utah Condominium Ownership Act, whether for 
residential, non-residential, and any other use.  
CONSTRUCTION PLAN:  The maps or drawings accompanying a subdivision plat and 
showing the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the 
subdivision in accordance with the requirements of the planning commission or county 
engineer as a condition of the approval of the plat.  
CORNER LOT:  The boundary of a lot which separates the lot from the road.  In the 
case of a corner lot, the setback requirement for the appropriate zone shall apply to 
all front lot lines.  
COUNTY COUNCIL: The Legislative Body of Summit County, Utah. 
COUNTY MANAGER: The Chief Executive Officer of Summit County, Utah. 
CUL-DE-SAC:  A local street with only one outlet and having an appropriate terminal 
for the safe and convenient reversal of traffic movement as well as firefighting and 
other public safety equipment.  
DEVELOPER:  The person, persons, corporation, firm or partnership owning the land 
proposed to be developed in any way, or a designated legal representative.  Consent 
shall be required from the legal owner of the premises.  
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT:  An agreement between a developer or property 
owners and the county pursuant to the provisions of this title contained herein and as 
used as an implementing device for a specially planned area zone district, referenced 
therein as an SPA plan.  
DRIVEWAY:  A means of access to one but not more than five (5) one-family dwelling 
units. Without assurances that only five (5) dwellings will use a driveway, it shall 
otherwise be a local road.  
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY:  A dwelling unit in a structure containing three (3) or 
more dwelling units sharing common vertical floors/ceilings, but not including 
hotels, lodges and other similar uses.  
DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY:  A detached principal building, other than a mobile home, 
designed for and used as a dwelling unit exclusively by one family and its guests.  Only 
one of these dwelling units is permitted for each lot of record when identified as a 
 
 
permitted or conditional use in Chapter 3 of this Title, unless otherwise stated in this 
title.  May be referred to as a single-family dwelling unit.  
DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED:  A dwelling unit in a structure containing 
two (2) or more units sharing one or more vertical and no horizontal common walls, 
each of which is designed for and used as a dwelling unit exclusively by one family and 
its guests. May also be referred to as a townhouse.  
DWELLING UNIT:  A building or portion thereof containing living facilities, including 
provisions for sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation, and is intended for occupancy 
by a family and its guests, independent of other families.  May also be referred to as a 
dwelling.  
 
DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY: An area used by the owner of the primary 
residence or primary tenant/business as a dwelling for the private use of the property 
owner's relatives, domestic help, caretakers, nursing staff, houseguest or similar users. 
An accessory dwelling unit shall contain cooking, sanitation and sleeping facilities. 
DWELLING UNIT, AGRICULTURAL EMPLOYEE:  A one-family dwelling unit located 
on an agricultural parcel/lot. The dwelling unit must be an accessory use to the principal 
dwelling unit and agricultural operation of the property.  An agricultural employee 
dwelling unit shall contain cooking, sanitation and sleeping facilities.  
EASEMENT:  A quantity of land set aside over which a liberty, privilege or advantage 
in land without profit exists distinct from the ownership of land, which is granted to the 
public or some particular person or part of the public.  
EQUIPMENT ENCLOSURE:  A structure, shelter, cabinet or vault used to house and 
protect the electronic equipment necessary for processing wireless communication 
signals and other telecommunication equipment.  
ESCROW:  A deposit of cash with the county or approved alternate entity in lieu of an 
amount required and still in force on a performance or maintenance guarantee.  
FAMILY:  An individual, or two (2) or more persons related by blood, marriage or 
adoption, or a group of not more than four (4) persons who are not related, occupying 
the same dwelling unit on a continuous basis.  
FENCE:  A structure constructed for reasons of privacy, security or aesthetics which is 
located in such a manner as to separate or divide areas.  Includes hedges and 
masonry walls.  
FINAL APPROVAL:  Final approval by the County Manager, County Council, Planning 
Commission, Board of Adjustment or Community Development Department, where 
commission action is not always required, of a plan, project, rezoning, use, activity or 
other action that shall be given after all the requirements set out in the preliminary 
approval have been met and after all concerns of all service providers regarding such 
plan, project, rezoning, use, activity or other action have been addressed and 
 
 
answered.  
FINAL PLAT:  The map or plan of a subdivision and any accompanying material, as 
described in these regulations, that is intended to be recorded in the office of the 
Summit County Recorder.  
FLOODPLAIN:  An area adjoining a river, stream or watercourse, or other body of 
standing water, in which a potential flood hazard exists due to inundation or overflow of 
water having sufficient volume and velocity to transport or deposit debris, scour the 
surface soil, dislodge or damage buildings, or erode the banks of watercourses.  Any 
area designated as a floodplain by the Federal Emergency Management Agency and 
Summit County.  
FLOOR AREA AND LOT COVERAGE:  The combined area of all floor space 
associated with a commercial or industrial use including floors above or below the 
ground floor.  Also, any areas outside of structures and associated with the use,  
including storage areas, parking lots, driveways and similar areas.   
 
FOOD PROCESSING, COMMERCIAL: An establishment that transforms raw 
ingredients into food or transforms food into other forms for consumption. 
 
FUNERAL SERVICES: An establishment engaged in undertaking services such as 
preparing the human dead for burial and arranging and managing funerals. Typical uses 
include funeral home or mortuaries. 
 
GAS AND FUEL, STORAGE AND SALES: Bulk storage tanks of flammable and 
combustible liquids, compressed gases or liquefied petroleum gas (LP gas) for business 
use, retail sale, wholesale, or wholesale distributing. 
 
GASOLINE SERVICE STATION WITH CONVENIENCE STORE: A place where 
gasoline, motor oil, lubricants, or other minor accessories are retailed directly to the 
public on the premises in combination with the retailing of items typically found in a 
convenience market or supermarket. 
GENERAL PLAN:  The General Plan for Eastern Summit County, prepared by the 
Planning Commission and the County Council, pursuant to state law.  
GRADE, NATURAL:  Elevation of the surface of the land prior to 
commencement of construction of any improvements proposed or the 
placement of any fill on the site.  
HEALTH DEPARTMENT AND HEALTH OFFICER:  The person within the Summit 
County Health Department, so designated by the County Council, to administer the 
health regulations of the county and/or state.  
HEIGHT:  For the purpose of measuring the height of any building from natural grade, 
the measurement shall be the vertical distance from natural grade to the highest point 
 
 
of a flat or pitched roof or other portion of a structure.  This measurement shall occur 
at any point within the exterior walls of the building or structure. Vertical architectural 
features on Houses of Worship, such as steeples which are associated with the 
religious function of the building, may be constructed 2-1/2 times the height of the 
building.   
HOME OCCUPATIONS:  Those occupations or professions which may be conducted 
within a dwelling unit or on the premises thereof and is clearly incidental and 
secondary to the use of the dwelling unit for residential purposes.  
 
HOSPITAL: An establishment providing primary health services and medical or surgical 
care to persons, primarily inpatients, suffering from illness, disease, injury, deformity, 
and other abnormal physical or mental conditions and including, as an integral part of 
the institution, related facilities, such as laboratories, emergency treatment facilities, 
diagnostic services, out-patient facilities, training facilities, medical offices, or staff 
residences. 
 
HOTEL, MOTEL OR INN: An establishment containing sleeping rooms for the 
temporary occupancy of guests. Accessory facilities may include a lobby, meeting 
rooms, recreation facilities, group dining facilities and/or other facilities or activities 
customarily associated with hotels, but not including lock-outs or boarding houses. 
Motels 
are generally an establishment containing guest rooms or dwelling units, some or all of 
which have a separate entrance leading directly from the outside of the building with 
garage or parking space located on the lot and designed, used, or intended wholly or 
in part for the accommodation of automobile transients. Motel includes motor courts, 
motor lodges and tourist courts, but not 
mobile home parks or travel trailer parks. 
HOUSES OF WORSHIP:  A church or institution that persons regularly attend to 
participate in religious services, meetings and other related activities.  
INDOOR RIDING ARENA:  A building or structure, the use of which is to board horses 
and/or conduct recreational activities and events, provide riding lessons, instruction or 
training and showing of horses or other domesticated animals.  
INDUSTRIAL USES:  Operations which include the storage, manufacturing and 
processing of agricultural or timber products, minerals extraction and production, 
treatment, packaging, wholesaling, fabrication, assembly and warehousing.   
INSTITUTIONAL USES:  A use operated by a private or public non-profit educational, 
recreational, charitable or public service organization, such as having the purpose 
primarily of serving the general public, but not including Houses of Worship.  
LEGAL NON-CONFORMING USE:  The present use of a building, structure or activity 
which does not conform to current regulations stated in this title, but which conformed 
to all regulations at time of its establishment or which was in existence prior to the 
 
 
establishment of subdivision and zoning regulations.  
LOCAL ROAD:  A roadway intended to provide access to and from a local 
subdivision or a cluster of single-family attached and/or multi-family dwelling units. 
It provides access to abutting properties. 
 
LOGGING CAMP: An establishment engaged in cutting down trees for commercial 
purposes, including transportation to a sawmill. A "logging camp" does not include 
cutting or alteration of trees incidental to construction activities. 
 
LOT: A parcel of real property describable either by metes and bounds, or by another 
legal plat designation held or intended to be held in separate ownership, or a parcel or 
unit of land shown as a lot or parcel on a recorded subdivision map.  The existence of 
a lot does not necessarily mean that a structure can be constructed thereon.  In order 
to obtain a building permit to construct a building on a lot, the lot must have been 
legally created. (See definition of Lot of Record, Legally Created Lot). 
 
LOT, LEGALLY CREATED:  1) a lot within an existing platted and approved subdivision 
which was legally created in accordance with the subdivision regulations of Summit 
County and recorded in the office of the County Recorder, or 2) a lot that was created 
from the conversion of agricultural land divisions to a nonagricultural subdivision in 
accordance with the Utah Code and this Title, or 3) a lot that successfully completes 
one of the development processes as outlined in Section 11-4-3(E).  (See also 11-4-3) 
LOT LINE, FRONT:  The property line dividing a lot from a road, whether public or 
private, or located adjacent to the principal means of access.  
LOT LINE, REAR:  The property line opposite the front lot line.  
 
LOT LINE, SIDE:  Any lot line other than a front or rear lot line. 
  
LOT, LOT OF RECORD: Any parcel/lot described in a deed, sales contract, or 
survey, that was recorded in the office of the Summit County Recorder before 
August 1, 1977, is a “lot of record.” Any parcel/lot described in a deed, sales 
contract, or survey, that was recorded in the office of the Summit County Recorder 
between August 1, 1977 and June 30, 1992, which complied with the zoning 
requirements in effect at the time of its creation, is also a "lot of record”.  (See also 
11-4-2) 
 
LOT WIDTH:  The minimum distance between the side property lines.  
 
MAJOR DEVELOPMENT:  Major development means a process for reviewing the 
development of an area of land, to be developed under unified control or a unified plan 
of development for residential, commercial, educational, recreational, industrial and/or 
other uses.  
 
 
 
MAJOR DEVELOPMENT MODIFICATION:  An adjustment, release or removal of 
certain provisions of a previously approved major development plan.  Changing any 
specific conditions imposed at the time of the original approval, as they relate to the 
entire project or subdivision, may be permitted in accordance with the review 
procedures set forth in Subsection 11-4-4G of this Title.  May be referred to as a Major 
Development Plan Amendment.  
MAJOR DEVELOPMENT PLAN:  The final provisions, terms and conditions for 
a major development or any development, approved in accordance with 
Chapter 4 of this Title.  
MAJOR SUBDIVISION:  All subdivisions not classified as a Minor Subdivisions (2 or 
fewer lots), or, Cluster Bonus/Agricultural Preservation Minor Subdivisions containing 
more than ten (10) lots.  
MANUFACTURED HOME:  A dwelling unit consisting primarily of components 
substantially fabricated in a manufacturing plant and transported to the building site for 
final assembly and placement on a permanent foundation. 
 
MANUFACTURING, CUSTOM: An establishment primarily engaged in the on-site 
production of goods by hand manufacturing which involves only the use of hand tools or 
domestic mechanical equipment not exceeding two horsepower or a single kiln not 
exceeding 8 kilowatts, and the incidental direct sale to customers of only those goods 
produced on-site. Typical uses include ceramic studios, candle-making shops or custom 
jewelry manufacturing. 
 
MANUFACTURING, LIGHT: An establishment engaged in the manufacture, 
predominantly from previously prepared materials, of finished products or parts, 
including processing, fabrication, assembly, treatment, and packaging of such products, 
and incidental storage, sales, and distribution of such products, but excluding basic 
industrial processing. 
 
MANUFACTURING, HEAVY: The converting of raw or partially processed materials into 
a product used for further processing or distribution. Examples of heavy manufacturing 
include lumber and paper mills, sewage treatment plants, stone, clay, glass product 
manufacturing, asphalt and concrete batch plants, and similar operations. These uses 
may be conducted partially or wholly outdoors and usually create noxious by-products 
such as dust, fumes, hazardous waste products, noise, vibration, and glare. 
MINOR SUBDIVISION:  Any subdivision of property with no more than two (2) 
parcels/lots, or with no more than ten (10) parcels/lots in the case of a Cluster 
Bonus/Agricultural Preservation Minor Subdivision.  
MOBILE HOME:  Any vehicle or object intended for occupancy by an individual or 
family that was originally constructed in total so as to be portable or mobile, whether 
presently affixed to the ground or not, and which is intended to be connected to on site 
utilities.  
 
 
MUNICIPAL LANDFILL:  A non-commercial municipal landfill for non-hazardous 
municipal solid waste or of construction and demolition waste as defined by Section 
R315-301-2 of the Utah State Code.  Municipal Landfill also includes the construction, 
operation and maintenance of recycling centers and facilities.   
NON-CONFORMING USE:  The use of a building, structure or activity which does not 
conform to current use regulations for the district in which it is situated.  
NONSTEALTH DESIGN:  Any antenna or equipment enclosures not camouflaged in a 
manner to blend with surrounding land uses, features or architecture.  Non-stealth 
design does not conceal the intended use of the telecommunications facility. A 
monopole with equipment enclosures aboveground and unscreened would be 
considered non-stealth.  
 
OPEN RECREATION USE: Land or the use of land intended for open recreational 
uses, including facilities such as playgrounds, campgrounds, golf courses, tennis 
courts, corrals, public riding arenas and other similar activities, but not including 
commercial snowmobile operations and shooting ranges, and other similar activities. 
OPEN SPACE/LANDS:  Land or area, the preservation of which preserves, protects, 
enhances or conserves the following:  
A.  Critical wildlife habitat, migration corridors, winter range and birthing areas;  
B.  Scenic resource features, prominent hillsides, ridgelines and view shed 
 corridors;  
C.  Stream corridors and other significant water bodies, wetlands, floodplains and 
 meadows;  
D.  Open space buffers adjacent to developed areas, parks, forests or agricultural 
 lands.   
 
ORDINANCE:  Any legislative action, however denominate, of the County which has 
the force of law, including any amendment or repeal of any ordinance.  
 
ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK:  The mark along water bodies that is evident by 
examining the bed and banks where the presence and action of waters and riparian 
vegetation boundaries are common in ordinary years, as to mark upon the soil a 
distinct character from that of the abutting upland.  Where the ordinary high water 
mark cannot be found, the top of the channel bank shall be substituted. 
OVERLAY ZONE:  A zone district that encompasses one or more underlying zones 
and imposes additional requirements or special regulations and allows special flexibility 
in planning the use, site layout and infrastructure design above that required by the 
underlying zone.  These special requirements shall take precedence over the 
provisions of the underlying zone.  
OWNER:  Any person, group of persons, firm or firms, corporation or corporations, or 
 
 
any other legal entity having legal title to or sufficient proprietary interest in the land 
sought to be developed or subdivided under these regulations.  
PERMITTED USE:  A use of land allowed by right under the provisions of this Title.  
PLANNING COMMISSION:  The Eastern Summit County Planning Commission 
of Summit County, Utah, established in this Title.  
PLAT AMENDMENT:  A change in a map of an approved or recorded subdivision plat if 
such change affects any street layout in such map or area reserved thereon for public 
use, or any lot line; or if it affects any map or plan legally recorded prior to the adoption 
of any regulations controlling subdivisions. Also referred to as a "resubdivision.”  
PREFABRICATED HOME:  A home constructed with steel frame may be considered a 
"mobile home" for the purpose of Section 11-3-12 of this Title.  
PRELIMINARY PLAT/PLAN:  The preliminary drawing or drawings, described in these 
regulations, indicating the proposed manner or layout of the subdivision to be 
submitted to the planning commission and the County Manager for approval.  
PRIMARY USE:  The primary or main use shall be the purpose for which the premises, 
land or a building therein is designed, arranged or intended, or for which it is or may be 
occupied or maintained.  
PROFESSIONAL OFFICES:  A building or space used by persons such as 
accountants, architects, engineers, artists, dentists, designers, lawyers, physicians, 
realtors, and others by virtue of their training and/or license, are qualified to perform 
services of a professional nature and where no goods or merchandise are sold or 
stored.  
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT:  Any drainage ditch or system, roadway, parkway, sidewalk, 
pedestrian way, tree, lawn, off street parking area, lot improvement, water or sewer 
system, or other facility for which the county may ultimately assume the responsibility 
for maintenance and operation, or which may affect an improvement for which county 
responsibility is established.  All such improvements shall be properly guaranteed and 
installed as per county codes, specifications and regulations.  
PUBLIC ROAD:  A road, including a related right of way, owned and maintained by 
Summit County.  
RAILROAD INDUSTRIAL USES:  Industrial uses and activities associated with the 
railroad including shipping and distribution of agricultural, timber products, minerals 
and other similar materials. 
RECREATIONAL VEHICLE:  A self-contained licensed and registered vehicular 
unit, other than a manufactured home or mobile home, primarily designed as a 
temporary dwelling for travel, recreation, or vacation that is either self-propelled or 
pulled by another vehicle.  The term recreational vehicle includes, but is not limited 
 
 
to:  a travel trailer, camping trailer, motor home and a fifth wheel trailer.  
 
RECYCLING FACILITY, CLASSI: Recycling containers totaling up to 60 cubic yards of 
capacity per lot or residential/business development used for the collection and 
temporary storage of recyclable materials such as glass, plastic, aluminum, mixed 
metals, fiber, and cardboard.  These facilities are generally, but not limited to the use by 
a specific residential neighborhood, civic facility, or commercial business park, and can 
be for the use of the entire community. 
 
RECYCLING FACILITY, CLASS II:  A building, structure or designated area with 
recycling containers totaling over 60 cubic yards of capacity per lot or 
residential/business development used for the collection, and temporary storage or 
transfer of recyclable materials such as glass, plastic, aluminum, mixed metals, fiber, 
and cardboard that may be for the use of the entire community and typically operates as 
a commercial business. 
REGISTERED ENGINEER:  An engineer properly licensed and registered in the state 
of Utah.  
 
REHEARSAL OR TEACHING STUDIO FOR CREATIVE, PERFORMING AND/OR 
MARTIAL ARTS WITH NO PUBLIC PERFORMANCES: A recreation facility operated 
as a business on private or public property and open to the public for a fee, such as a 
dance studio, gymnastics studio, music studio, or substantially similar use, and support 
facilities customarily associated with the development. 
REGISTERED LAND SURVEYOR:  A land surveyor properly licensed and 
registered in the state of Utah.  
RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITY:  A 24-hour group living environment for four (4) or 
more individuals that offers room and board and specialized care and treatment for the 
elderly or persons with disabilities. 
RETAIL COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS:  An establishment primarily engaged 
in the sale or rental of commonly used goods and merchandise for personal or 
household use serving the immediate or surrounding neighborhood.  Typical uses 
include apparel stores, drug stores, grocery stores, book stores, auto parts stores, 
and other similar uses.  
RIGHT-OF-WAY:  A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a street, 
crosswalk, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas pipeline, water main, 
sanitary or storm sewer main, shade trees, or for another special use.  The usage of 
the term "right of way" for land platting purposes shall mean every right of way 
hereafter established and shown on a final plat to be separate and distinct from the lots 
or parcels adjoining such right of way and not included within the dimensions or areas 
of such lots or parcels.  Rights of way intended for streets, crosswalks, water mains, 
sanitary sewers, storm drains, shade trees, or any other use involving maintenance by 
a public agency shall be dedicated to public use by the maker of the plat on which such 
 
 
right of way is established.  
ROAD, DEAD END:  A road or a portion of a street with only one vehicular traffic outlet.  
SCREENING:  A strip at least ten feet (10') wide, densely planted (or having equivalent 
natural growth) with shrubs or trees at least four feet (4') high at the time of planting, of 
a type that will for a year around period, will provide a dense screen at least six feet 
(6') high; or an opaque wall or barrier or uniformly painted fence at least six feet (6') 
high. Either type of screening shall be maintained in good condition at all times.  
Where required in the zone district regulations, a screen shall be installed along or 
within the lines of a parcel/lot as a protection to adjoining or nearby properties.  
 
SEASONAL RECREATION, COMMERCIAL (NON-MOTORIZED): Land or the use of 
land intended for commercial open recreational uses, including activities such as rafting 
tours, mountain biking tours, horseback riding, and other similar activities, but not 
including commercial snowmobile operations, shooting ranges, and other similar 
activities. 
 
SEASONAL RECREATION, COMMERCIAL (MOTORIZED): Land or the use of land 
intended for commercial open recreational uses, including activities such as commercial 
snowmobile tours, all-terrain vehicle tours, and other similar activities, but not including 
shooting ranges, and other similar activities. 
SERVICE COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS:  An establishment primarily engaged 
in providing personal services to the immediate or surrounding neighborhood.  Typical 
uses include restaurants, gas stations, auto repair garages, banks or financial 
institutions, and other similar uses.  
SETBACK:  The distance between a lot line and the front, side, or rear line of the 
foundation of a structure or the finished exterior surface of a structure, whichever is 
closer to the property line, excluding uncovered stairs, roof eaves that don’t extend into 
the setback more than three feet (3’), and decks that don’t exceed one foot (1’) in 
height, measured from the top of the deck to the grade directly below.  
SETBACK, FRONT:  A front setback will be required for each side of a lot bordering 
a public street or other right of way.  
SIGN:  An object or device or any part thereof situated outdoors which is used to 
advertise, identify, display, direct or attract the attention of a pedestrian or motorist 
to an object, place, person, institution, organization, business, product, service, 
event or location by any means, including words, letters, figures, designs, logos, 
fixtures, colors, illumination or projected Images.  
SIGN, FREESTANDING:  A sign supported by poles, uprights or braces extending 
from the ground or from an object on the ground; provided that no part of the sign is 
attached to any part of a building.  
SKETCH PLAN:  A sketch preparatory to the preparation of the preliminary plat/plan 
 
 
(or subdivision plat in the case of minor subdivisions) to enable the subdivider to save 
time and expense in reaching general agreement with the Community Development 
Director, Planning Department and Planning Commission as to the form of the 
plat/plan and the objectives and/or conditions of these regulations.  
SPECIALLY PLANNED AREA PLAN:  The final provisions, terms and conditions for a 
specially planned area, approved in accordance with Chapter 4 of this Title.  An 
approved specially planned area plan shall constitute the final zoning and development 
regulations for the specific area for which it has been adopted.  This plan may vary the 
use, density, site layout and other requirements of the underlying zone districts, so long 
as the plan complies with prescribed criteria for approval.  
SPECIALLY PLANNED AREA PLAN MODIFICATION:  An adjustment, release or 
removal of certain provisions of a previously approved specially planned area (SPA) 
plan.  Changing any specific development parameter or condition imposed at the time 
of the original approval, as they relate to the entire project or subdivision, may be 
permitted in accordance with the review procedures set forth in Subsection 11-4-4G 
of this Title.  May be referred to as an amendment.  
STEALTH:  Antennas, antenna support structures and telecommunication equipment 
enclosures camouflaged or designed to blend with surrounding land uses, features and 
architecture, thus minimizing the aesthetic impact on adjacent uses, thereby concealing 
the intended use and appearance of the telecommunications facility, such as by heavy 
landscaping, or installing telecommunications equipment within existing buildings, 
behind vegetative screening, or placing equipment enclosures underground, thus 
preserving or striving to maintain the rural aesthetics of Eastern Summit County.  A 
flush wall mount antenna that is painted the same color as the background and located 
on a building where the telecommunications equipment is located inside the building 
would be one example of stealth design.  Other examples of stealth design include, but 
are not limited to, roof mount antennas, utility pole antennas, light or flag poles, artificial 
rocks or trees.  
STRUCTURE:  Anything constructed, the use of which requires a fixed location on or in 
the ground and which projects above the general surface of the ground, or attached to 
something having a fixed location upon the ground, excluding poles, lines, cables, on 
grade decks, driveways, and other similar features. All structures must maintain the 
minimum setbacks for the district in which they are located, both above and below the 
ground.  This definition includes "building".  
SUBDIVIDER:  Any person who, having an interest in land, causes it, directly or 
indirectly, to be divided into a subdivision; or who directly or indirectly, sells, leases or 
develops, or offers to sell, lease or develop, or advertises for sale, lease or 
development any interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a subdivision; or who engages 
directly or through an agent in the business of selling, leasing, developing or offering for 
sale, lease or development a subdivision or any interest, lot, parcel site, unit or plat in a 
subdivision; or who is directly or indirectly controlled by, or under direct or indirect 
common control with any of the foregoing.  
SUBDIVISION:  Any land, vacant or improved, which is divided or proposed to be 
 
 
divided into two (2) or more lots, parcels or separate interests.  "Subdivision" includes 
the division of residential and nonresidential zoned land, whether by deed, metes and 
bounds description, devise, intestacy, lease, map, plat or other recorded instrument.  
SUBDIVISION PLAT:  The final map or drawing, described in these regulations, on 
which the subdivider's plan of a subdivision is presented to the Planning Commission 
and County Manager for approval and which, if approved, may be submitted to the 
Summit County Recorder for filing at the subdivider's expense.  
TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT:  Equipment used in a 
telecommunications facility other than the antenna, antenna support structure or 
equipment enclosures. Telecommunications equipment may include, but is not 
limited to, electronic equipment necessary for processing wireless communication 
signals, air conditioning, backup power supplies and emergency generators.  
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITY:  An unmanned structure which consists of 
"antennas", "antenna support structures", "telecommunications equipment" and 
"equipment enclosures", as defined herein, that transmit and/or receive voice and/or 
data communications through radio signals such as, but not limited to, "cellular" or 
"PCS" (personal communications system) communications and paging systems, 
whether commercially or privately operated.  
TEMPORARY USE:  Any use intended for a limited duration.  A "short term" temporary 
use shall mean a use not to exceed sixteen (16) days in a sixty (60) day period.  A "long 
term" temporary use shall mean any use intended for a limited duration, but more than 
sixteen (16) days in a sixty (60) day period.  A "temporary use" specifically may not be 
allowed as a permitted use, an accessory use, a conditional use, or when it is 
reasonable to attach a specific time period for the existence of the use in the particular 
zone district where the use is proposed. 
 UTILITY STRUCTURE AND RELATED FACILITIES:  May include a building/structure 
that is constructed so as to provide assistance, benefit and aid, directly or indirectly, to 
a service such as electrical power, light, and forms of communication including: 
telephone, telegraph, fiber optic signals, cellular service for both analog and digital 
signals, and radio and television signals to name a few.  This list is not intended to be 
all inclusive.  
UTILITY TOWER:  A structure typically higher relative to surrounding structures 
that provides a service in the form of electrical power, light, or forms of 
communication, limited to:  telephone, telegraph and fiber optic signals.  Utility 
Towers do not include towers used exclusively for wireless communications.  
VARIANCE, ZONING:  A waiver of specific zoning regulations of this title granted by 
the board of adjustment in accordance with the provisions set forth in this title for the 
purpose of assuring that no property, because of special circumstances applicable to it, 
shall be deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by similar properties. 
 
VETERINARIAN CLINIC: A licensed medical establishment for the care and treatment 
of small, domestic animals. 
 
 
WETLAND:  Lands where the water table is usually at or near the surface and is 
associated with riparian vegetation and soils, or which are adjacent to or contiguous 
with a stream corridor or other natural water body.  A wetland may be an area 
delineated by the Army Corps of Engineers, Soil Conservation Service or other 
applicable state or federal agency or qualified hydrology consultant.  
YARD:  A required space on a lot other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed by 
buildings from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein.  Yard areas for 
below grade structures must be provided unless a variance is obtained.  
YARD, FRONT:  A required space between the front line of the main building and the 
front lot line or closer right of way line of an abutting street or right of way and 
extending across the full width of a lot.  The "depth" of the front yard is the minimum 
distance between the front lot line and the front line of the closest main building.  
YARD, REAR:  A required space between the rear line of the building and the rear 
lot line, or closer public street and extending the full width of the lot.  The "depth" of 
the rear yard is the minimum distance between the rear lot line and the rear line of 
the main building.  
YARD, SIDE:  A required space between the side line of the building and the side lot 
line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The "width" of the side yard 
shall be the minimum distance between the side lot line and the side line of the 
building.  
ZONE:  An area designated on the zoning map and in which the regulations apply 
alike to all land within the area.  
ZONE DISTRICT MAP:  The map established by the County Council pursuant to law 
showing the streets, highways and parks, and drainage systems and setback lines 
theretofore laid out, and zoning districts, adopted and established by law, and any 
amendments or additions thereto resulting from the approval of subdivision plats by 
the Planning Commission, CDD or designated planning staff member, and County 
Manager and the subsequent filing of such approved plats.  (Ord. 278, 5-6-1996; 
amd. Ord. 365, 9-13-1999; Ord. 417, 7-5-2001; Ord. 470, 11-19-2003; 2004 Code)  
 
 
 
APPENDIX B of the Eastern Summit County Development 
Code 
 
ADULT/SEX-ORIENTED FACILITIES AND BUSINESSES 
A. Findings: The County Council finds that the appropriate location for adult/sex 
oriented facilities and businesses within the county is within concentrated areas of 
the county where it can be better regulated by county officials and law enforcement, 
and outside of residential or recreational (park) areas where the quality of life will 
not be as greatly impacted. Within the unincorporated county, adult/sex-oriented 
facilities and businesses shall be allowed as a Conditional Use within the Silver 
Creek Industrial Park and other industrial areas, as specified herein, and shall 
conform to the criteria mandated under this Subsection and Title 3, Chapter 5 of 
this Code, governing such activities. This Title and Title 10 of this Code, are hereby 
amended to allow adult/sex-oriented facilities and businesses as a Conditional Use 
in the or Industrial (I) Zone (Eastern Summit County) and as a prohibited use in all 
other zone districts. 
 
B. Conditional Use Permit Required: Adult/sex oriented facilities and businesses are 
Conditional Uses in existing Industrial Zones and must be approved in accordance 
with the provisions of this subsection and Title 3, Chapter 5 of this Code. In all 
cases, a design and site plan diagramming the premises shall be provided as part 
of the application process. A public hearing shall be required in all cases prior to 
the issuance of a Conditional Use permit. The procedures for issuance of 
Conditional Use Permits, as found in the appropriate title, shall be followed in all 
cases. A final decision by the county as to the issuance of a Conditional Use 
Permit for an adult/sex-oriented facility or business shall be made within ninety 
(90) days of receipt of a completed application by the County Department of 
Community Development, unless a delay is requested or agreed upon by the 
applicant or where the applicant is causing the delay by not providing needed 
information. 
 
C. Non-conforming Uses: 
1. Right to Continue: Adult/sex-oriented facilities and businesses already existing 
within the unincorporated area of the county shall have the right to continue in their 
businesses without a Conditional Use Permit. However, all such businesses shall 
be subject to compliance with the criteria, mandatory general conditions, and 
mandatory design of premises conditions, as provided in this subsection and Title 3, 
Chapter 5 of this Code, within ninety (90) days of the adoption of the ordinance 
codified herein. A time extension may be granted where the County Council/County 
Manager determines, on a case by case basis, that a hardship exists for a business 
owner/operator. 
2. Change or Extension/Enlargement of Use: Any non-conforming use herein 
may not be materially changed, nor extended/enlarged unless it comes into 
compliance with the then existing Development Code. 
3. Cessation of Use: If active and continuous operations are not carried on in a 
non-conforming use during a continuous period of one year, the building or land 
where such non-conforming use previously existed shall thereafter by occupied 
 
 
and used only for a conforming use. Intent to resume active operations shall 
not affect the foregoing. 
 
D. Right Of Appeal: All appeals from denials by the Planning Commission of 
Conditional Use Permit applications shall be as provided in Title 10 of this Code, the 
Eastern Summit County Development Code (this Title) (as applicable), and Utah 
Code Annotated, Section 17-271001, to the District Court within thirty (30) days of 
the Planning Commission’s final action. 
 
E. Penalty: Violations of any of the provisions of this section shall subject the 
offender to the penalties as provided in this title, other applicable state law, or 
where no penalty is otherwise provided, a fine of not more than seven hundred 
fifty dollars ($750.00) and a ninety (90) day jail sentence. (Ord. 324, 3-9-1998) 
 
 