Please note: these minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.


                                  PROVO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                  Budget Retreat Minutes
                                  12:00 PM, Tuesday, May 12, 2020
                                  Electronic meeting: youtube.com/provocitycouncil


  Agenda (0:00:00)

 Roll Call
 The following elected officials were present:
        Council Chair George Handley, conducting
        Council Vice-chair David Harding
        Councilor Travis Hoban
        Councilor Bill Fillmore
        Councilor Shannon Ellsworth
        Councilor David Shipley
        Councilor David Sewell
        Mayor Michelle Kaufusi, arrived 12:09 PM

 Prayer
 The prayer was given by Councilor Travis Hoban.

 Business

 1.       A presentation on the FY 20-21, an overview of the budget and the rationale behind
          decisions and fund balances. (20-008) (0:12:50)

 Mayor Michelle Kaufusi shared several clarifications about the budget impacts to employees,
 after which John Borget, Administrative Services Director, presented. He shared the fund
 balance figures from the Comprehensive Annual Finance Report (CAFR) and indicated that the
 annual audit would begin in the coming months. Mr. Borget highlighted four areas which the
 Administration had been evaluating of the City’s various funds:
     • Non-spendable (such as leases or other fixed expenses)
     • Restricted (B&C road funds - taxes collected by state on gasoline and diesel)
     • Assigned (funds for current projects)
     • Unassigned

 Mr. Borget shared details to provide a forecast of the impacts to the general fund and the
 constraints on the fund, which would impact what is available to be used for the 2021 budget.
 The fund balance was currently at 24% of revenues. Mr. Borget also gave an overview of sales
 tax, which he noted was difficult to forecast as it was unclear how extensive the impacts of the
 pandemic would be on the local economy. With that in mind, they have been very conservative
 in their estimates and prepared a responsible budget to submit to the Council.

                                                                                                                1
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
Please note: these minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.

 Mr. Borget responded to questions from Councilors. Councilor Shannon Ellsworth asked about
 the sales tax figures statewide in February and March; Mr. Borget indicated that sales tax figures
 are reported a couple months later, so it was still difficult to determine what the impacts of the
 beginning of the pandemic in March had been. Councilor David Shipley asked about whether the
 positive sales tax figures from the beginning part of the year had been on account of the internet
 sales tax being assessed. Mr. Borget indicated that the internet sales tax has been a huge help to
 Provo since the tax comes to where the purchase was made. During the pandemic, many have
 moved to online shopping as well. Councilor George Handley commented that the pandemic
 seemed like the situation for which the rainy-day fund is set aside. Presentation only.

 2.       A presentation on the projected revenues for the FY 20-21. (20-008) (0:53:41)

 John Magness, Policy Analyst, shared past revenues back to 2014 to share a broader picture of
 the City’s financial situation. He highlighted utility sales, sales and property tax, franchise and
 licensing fees, RAP (Recreation, Arts, Parks) tax, B&C road funds, and transfers. Mr. Magness
 outlined the projections for the different funding sources and noted that some would see slight
 adjustments in the coming fiscal year based on rate changes or the likely continuation of past
 trends. Councilor David Harding asked for clarification about the percentage change; Mr.
 Magness clarified that the figures he was sharing was the one-year change from the budgeted
 FY20 and projected FY21 numbers. Where there was an increase for property tax, it did not
 represent a tax increase, but reflected extra income coming from new growth in the city.

 Mr. Harding also asked for clarification on the utility revenue versus transfer projections. Mr.
 Magness clarified that not all the utility fees went to the general fund; many went directly to the
 enterprise fund. John Borget, Administrative Services Director, also clarified that there were
 other components of the transfer besides just utility fees. He thought the utility transfers would
 be fairly level, but the difference was probably made up by other transfers. Presentation only.

 3.       A presentation on General Fund Expenditures. (20-008) (1:06:00)

 Cliff Strachan, Council Executive Director, presented. He reviewed the General Fund summary
 from FY2017 to FY2021 and highlighted several proposed expenditures which aligned with
 Council priorities and initiatives. Mr. Strachan noted that $150,000 was included for redoing the
 General Plan; this was based on an estimate provided by the Community and Neighborhood
 Services Department. Councilor Shannon Ellsworth added that she thought that figure seemed
 accurate, based on her experience in the planning industry. Mr. Strachan also noted the projected
 financials for the Joaquin Parking Permit Program.

 Ms. Ellsworth asked what budget cut has been the most challenging. Mayor Michelle Kaufusi
 indicated that it was difficult to ask departments to dig deeper and make additional cuts across
 the board. She had to turn down a large number of supplemental requests as well as implement a
 soft hiring freeze. In response to another question from Ms. Ellsworth, Mayor Kaufusi indicated
 that they would be planning for priorities to reintroduce to the budget, should revenues exceed
 the anticipated amounts and provide more flexibility in the coming fiscal year.



                                                                                                                2
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
Please note: these minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.

 Councilor Bill Fillmore asked about the $1.65 million for unfilled public safety positions. John
 Borget, Administrative Services Director, indicated that these were positions that were unfilled
 at present, but for which the intent was to fill the position. As they were working to balance the
 budget, they assessed current positions that were unfilled and whether or not they wanted to fill
 those for submitting the budget. With the current impacts, they determined that they should
 retain those positions and fill them.

 Mr. Fillmore also asked whether it would make sense to delay the implementation of the Joaquin
 Permit Parking Program out one year given the uncertain financial climate. Councilor David
 Harding, chair of the Joaquin Parking Committee, shared comments on the program funding. Mr.
 Strachan and Hannah Salzl, Policy Analyst, also shared further clarification on how the
 projections for the Joaquin Permit Parking Program were determined. Presentation only.

 4.       A presentation on Non-General Fund expenditures. (20-008) (1:44:41)

 Hannah Salzl, Policy Analyst, presented. She shared a high-level overview on plans to maintain
 expenditures to meet service needs over the short-term and long-term. The goal was to be able to
 meet expected levels of service without exceeding projected revenues. She briefly outlined the
 five main categories and expected expenditures and projections for: enterprise funds (utilities,
 golf course), special reserve funds (library), capital improvement funds, internal service funds,
 and debt service funds. Councilor George Handley was concerned about fee increases during the
 financial uncertainty of the pandemic. He wondered if the city had a relief fund for those who
 could not meet the increase. John Borget, Administrative Services Director, clarified that the
 increase in revenues described by Mr. Magness earlier in the meeting were other transfers
 between funds that did not relate to the enterprise (or utility) fund transfers. Presentation only.

 5.       A presentation on Supplemental Request by various departments. (20-008) (2:05:50)

 David Mortensen, Budget Officer, presented. He noted that they received many supplemental
 requests, about 42 items from different departments totaling just over $3 million. He highlighted
 the requests that were funded, which comprised critical needs of the city. Councilors asked
 questions about the rental fees for the recreation department and about personnel savings. Mr.
 Mortensen provided details on these items. John Borget, Administrative Services Director,
 highlighted the request to add Office365 licenses for all employees. Mr. Mortensen reviewed
 other supplemental requests that were unfunded but necessary. Hannah Salzl, Policy Analyst,
 noted that the additional parking enforcement personnel were a component of the Joaquin permit
 parking program and the expansion of the Foothills permit parking program. Presentation only.

 6.       A presentation on Personnel and the number of Full Time Equivalent (FTE)
          positions the city is funding for FY 20-21. (20-008) (2:42:13)

 John Magness, Policy Analyst, presented. Mr. Magness reviewed changes to the FTE levels for
 different areas of the city. There was a net increase of 3.3 FTE in the General Fund and an
 overall decrease of 8.7 FTE for the city, or about a .96% reduction in workforce. Mr. Magness
 reviewed the impacts for each department which had changes. Councilor Shannon Ellsworth
 asked whether the positions being eliminated had beenunfilled at that time. Mr. Magness

                                                                                                                3
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
Please note: these minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.

 indicated that for most positions that were eliminated, the positions had been vacant for some
 time. Some changes were simply the result of reassigning a position to the correct department.

 Councilor George Handley shared comments on the police staffing levels; as the Police
 Department has been historically understaffed, he wondered whether the FTE changes were
 simply due to the current economic climate. Mayor Michelle Kaufusi addressed this comment
 and expressed that Chief Rich Ferguson was satisfied with the current staffing level. She
 highlighted some of their ongoing challenges with staffing; while they are still not at the level
 they want, Chief Ferguson is still very grateful for the 7 new officers added during the last fiscal
 year. They believe they are at a good place based on current staffing dynamics. Mayor Kaufusi
 also mentioned that many directors have said that their budget presentations would have been
 very different post-during-pandemic vs. their presentations which took place before the
 pandemic. John Borget, Administrative Services Director, added some additional details
 regarding some FTE which were moved from Customer Service to Community and
 Neighborhood Services; the costs to the General Fund would remain the same with this change.

 Ms. Ellsworth asked the Administration what they felt were the most critical needs and what
 areas they would not want to underfund. Mayor Kaufusi said each department would say
 something different, but she felt that infrastructure was a critical need. She invited Wayne
 Parker, CAO, and Mr. Borget to weigh in. Mr. Borget highlighted employees/the workforce and
 taking care of existing assets (including vehicle replacement) as critical needs. Investing in these
 things will create more consistency and reliability within the City organization, which will help
 the City to weather other changes. Mr. Parker shared some of the pitfalls of how funding was
 allocated during the previous recession. He reiterated Mr. Borget’s comments, noting the need to
 retain and recruit a high-quality workforce. He noted that during the previous recession, it took
 almost a decade to recover from a one-year decision because of the greater sums spent on
 vehicle maintenance rather than replacement when it had been needed. Presentation only.

 7.       A presentation on Budget Intent Statements, particularly budget carryovers,
          including renewable energy goal and alternate fuel vehicle replacements. (20-008)
          (2:59:13)

 Cliff Strachan, Council Executive Director, presented. Mr. Strachan reviewed the contents of the
 main budget resolution and what it contains. He also introduced the discussion on carryovers and
 Councilors shared comments on the topic. Councilors shared comments on carryovers. Several
 Councilors expressed that they thought reassignments of budget funds should have Council
 oversight as a basic budgeting principle; it seemed problematic if a department was able to
 reprogram funds to programs that were not explicitly approved or funded during the budgeting
 process. Wayne Parker, CAO, said that the Council does not adopt a line-item budget; rather,
 they adopt the budget by department. He felt that the current process was within the statutory
 prerogative and separation of powers.

 Mr. Strachan highlighted several policies with the Council had adopted that had budgetary
 implications. He also noted language that would be added to the adopted budget regarding the
 Council’s Audit Committee. Mr. Strachan noted that in the past, the budget has typically
 included a section about the Council’s priorities. Mr. Strachan referenced the Council’s

                                                                                                                4
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
Please note: these minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.

 renewable energy goal/policy and suggested that it be incorporated into the General Plan.
 Councilor Shannon Ellsworth was concerned that there were many goals not related to the built
 environment that were being put into the General Plan; she thought that instead it needed to be a
 document primarily focused on land use. Councilor George Handley wondered whether the City
 could adopt a sustainability plan as an appendix to the General Plan and perhaps it would be a
 better fit for the renewable energy policy.

 Mr. Strachan asked Councilors to indicate what they would like to discuss during the budget
 item at the next work meeting. Several Councilors asked for an update on the regional/soccer
 sports park. Mayor Kaufusi and Mr. Parker shared some details on the progress of the project.

 Mr. Strachan and Councilors thanked the Administration for the budget process and cooperation
 from Finance, the Mayor’s Office, and department directors. The Council has appreciated
 receiving excellent resources and information. Council Chair George Handley also thanked
 Council staff for preparing this budget retreat and the recent town hall event. Presentation only.

 Adjournment
 Adjourned by unanimous consent.




                                                                                                                5
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
