Please Note – These minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.

                              PROVO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                              Joint Meeting with Provo School Board Minutes
                              12:00 PM, Thursday, September 02, 2021
                              Electronic meeting: https://www.youtube.com/provocitycouncil or City
                              Council Conference Room, 351 W. Center Street, Provo, UT 84601


Agenda (0:00:00)

Roll Call
The following Councilors and School District and Board officials participated:
       Council Chair David Sewell, conducting
       Council Vice-chair David Shipley
       Councilor George Handley
       Councilor Bill Fillmore
       Councilor Shannon Ellsworth
       Councilor David Harding
       Councilor Travis Hoban
       Melanie Hall, Provo School Board President
       McKay Jensen, Provo School District Board Member
       Jennifer Partridge, Provo School District Board Member
       Terri McCabe, Provo School District Board Member
       Nate Bryson, Provo School District Board Member
       Gina Hales, Provo School District Board Member
       Superintendent Keith Rittel

Prayer
The prayer was offered by Councilor Bill Fillmore.

Business

1.       An update on safe routes to school and related school transportation questions. (21-
         093) (0:13:29)

Rob Hunter and Shane Winters, City Engineers, presented. They have been coordinating with
Alex Judd, School District Assistant Superintendent, to work on safe routes to school. Mr.
Hunter shared an update on what has been done in the past year for the safe routes to school
program. Based on the process established in Utah Code, the School District establishes a School
Traffic Safety Committee. The committee received requests from five out of 13 schools for
changes and improvements have been made at 11 out of 13 elementary schools. There are 24
new school crosswalks with accompanying signs, as well as other improvements without the
city. Mr. Hunter reviewed the improvements made at each of the elementary school crossings.
                                                                                                                1
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
Many projects have already been completed, and several projects are projected to be completed
in the coming weeks. Mr. Hunter addressed some challenges for school transportation, including
staffing challenges for crossing guards, as well as funding and property acquisitions for other
projects at 600 South, Geneva Road, and 2230 North. Public Works continues to facilitate these
projects. Melanie Hall, School Board President, asked for additional details for crossing guard
positions so they can spread the word. Mr. Winters explained it can become much more
challenging when new crossings added require a crossing guard, as the Police Department has
ongoing challenges with staffing. Board Member Teri McCabe thanked Sgt. Orgill, Mr. Hunter,
Mr. Winters, and Mr. Judd for their work on safe routes to school. Councilor David Harding
echoed Ms. McCabe’s comments. Ms. Hall asked about crossings for Timpview and Provo High
Schools in the future. Presentation only.

2.      A discussion on Provo's Census data and reapportionment. (21-093) (0:34:47)

Cliff Strachan, Council Executive Director, presented. Mr. Strachan gave an overview of the
Census data which has been received thus far, which shows that Provo’s population has seen a
2.38% increase since 2010. This number is below the projections, but many suspect that Provo’s
Census counts suffered because of the pandemic, which saw many college students returning
home earlier than in a usual year. Utah County expects to receive more granular Census data
which will inform the redistricting process. They anticipate significant renumbering of local
precincts. Mr. Strachan indicated that the last time the Council adopted maps for the Council and
School Board districts was in July 2012. Board Member Teri McCabe asked about changes in
families which could affect the number of middle schools needed. Mr. Strachan indicated that
only broad population data is available at this time. Presentation only.

3.      A discussion about the impact of growth and development on schools. (21-093)
        (0:41:13)

Councilor Shannon Ellsworth and Jennifer Partridge, Provo School Board Member, presented.
Ms. Ellsworth outlined a recent conversation she had with Ms. Partridge about some of their
concerns. Title 1 schools have higher amounts of free and reduced lunches, and this has impacts
on education. Superintendent Keith Rittel shared details on Provo’s highest poverty schools,
which include Franklin, Timpanogos, Spring Creek, Provost, Provo Peaks, Sunset View, and
Amelia Earhart Elementary (7 of the 13 total elementary schools in the city). Poverty in these
schools is usually at least 50% more, but in earlier schools in this list, there have been as high as
80-90% in those schools. Provo relies on Title 1 to provide more funding for these students. Ms.
Partridge also noted the other impacts in Title 1 schools as teachers try to fill multiple roles to
provide resources to students. Ms. Ellsworth noted that many of the housing types which are
geared toward moderate income residents are being concentrated in areas which are already the
most impacted schools regarding Title 1. Mr. Rittel referenced a presentation by Dave Knecht.
Mr. Rittel said it is challenging to do when single-family homes are being occupied by multiple
families and responding to unanticipated high numbers of students is challenging.

Councilor Bill Fillmore was surprised to find out that more than half of our elementary schools
qualify for Title 1. He wondered what percentage families who are at or below the poverty line
are constituted by young student families (i.e., students in college who have children). Mr. Rittel

                                                                                                        2
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
did a deep dive into Title 1 a few years ago; his perception is that things have increased from a
poverty standpoint without increases in the types of families Mr. Fillmore mentioned. Mr.
Fillmore asked if ethnic data was broken out. Mr. Rittel indicated that they get the overall data
from the federal free and reduced lunch program. Mr. Fillmore was interested in learning more.
Board Member McKay Jensen said some of that data is difficult to get, but they can see the
trends of married student housing decreasing in the city. Mr. Jensen shared insight into how the
data is changing nationally with poverty. Councilor David Harding thanked the Provo School
District and educators for their tremendous work. His kids attended Timpanogos Elementary and
have gone through the Provo School District and he thinks that even with the sometimes limited
resources that the district and schools have, they have an amazing education system. Mr. Harding
and others in this group received an email from Shannon Bingham, a community member, citing
the federal guidelines for school siting. Mr. Harding noted some of the impacts that school siting
can have. Mr. Harding noted that the City makes decisions about where people will live, but the
Provo School District does as well. He thinks these opportunities for collaboration are important
to the health and vitality of the community. Presentation only.

4.      An update on Timpview High School construction and replacement. (21-093)
        (0:57:56)

Superintendent Keith Rittel presented. Reconstruction of the academic wing of Timpview High
School is underway. Mr. Rittel shared a progress report on the reconstruction project. They are
regularly monitoring the geotechnical aspects of the site. They anticipate finishing the academic
wing in three years, after which students will be moved and the old building will be demolished.
Councilor Bill Fillmore had not heard the three year projection—Mr. Rittel clarified that was
three years from when they broke ground in June 2021. Presentation only.

5.      An update on capital improvement plans for the Provo School District. (21-093)
        (1:03:52)

Superintendent Keith Rittel presented. He shared information about when the district’s capital
improvement plans are reviewed. Two major projects before the Board are rebuilds of Wasatch
Elementary and Dixon Middle School. Both of those schools have outstanding decisions
regarding siting. Their long-term planning includes adding a fourth wing to Provo High School
to accommodate growth on the west side and planning for the district’s northwest Provo property
for a future school. Councilor Bill Fillmore asked about their needs for a new middle school. Mr.
Rittel said it depends on how large they want school populations to be, what the school buildings
can accommodate, and the types of programing for students. A lot of this is contingent on growth
and they hope to maintain open communications with the City. Mr. Fillmore asked about
anticipating infrastructure needs and Mr. Rittel and Board Member McKay Jensen shared more
information about how they make school planning projections. Presentation only.

6.      A discussion on how the Council can better support schools in Provo. (21-093)
        (1:12:21)

Melanie Hall, Provo School Board President, presented. She indicated the Council are welcome
to reach out to the District with their questions at any time and she opened the discussion to also

                                                                                                      3
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
include how the District can support the Council. Board Member McKay Jensen thanked Provo
Public Works for their presentation, which showed tangible improvements to school
transportation safety, and for the City’s partnership. Councilor George Handley said he has
always had great responsiveness from the School Board. Board Member Gina Hales thanked Ms.
Ellsworth and Ms. Partridge for the data they shared about how housing types in the city affect
different schools. She thought this was an important discussion and she hoped there could be
ongoing communication on this issue. Ms. Ellsworth suggested that in Provo we could do a
better job of using data to drive decisions. Superintendent Keith Rittel also thanked Phil Uhl,
GIS staff, who has been very helpful to the School District in getting them data and information.
Council Chair David Sewell thanked the School Board members and district staff for all they do.
Presentation only.

Adjournment
Adjourned by unanimous consent.




                                                                                                4
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
