Please Note – These minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.

                              PROVO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                              Joint Meeting with Orem Council Minutes
                              12:00 PM, Thursday, March 10, 2022
                              Hybrid meeting: youtube.com/provocitycouncil or 351 W. Center
                              Street, Provo, UT 84601


Agenda (0:00:00)

Roll Call
The following elected officials participated:
       Councilor Shannon Ellsworth, conducting
       Councilor Rachel Whipple
       Councilor Katrice MacKay
       Councilor David Shipley
       Councilor Bill Fillmore
       Council Chair Travis Hoban joined 12:09 PM
       Orem Mayor David Young
       Debby Lauret, Orem City Councilor
       LaNae Millett, Orem City Councilor
       Terry Peterson, Orem City Councilor
Excused: Mayor Michelle Kaufusi and Councilor George Handley

Prayer
Councilor Katrice MacKay offered the prayer.

Business

1.       A discussion on Utah Lake (0:09:30)

Councilor Shannon Ellsworth introduced this item. She highlighted background information
about the item and the Provo City Council and Mayor’s recent joint resolution encouraging the
State Legislature to support the ecological integrity of Utah Lake and a more transparent process.

Mayor David Young, Orem, said that many Orem citizens were concerned about development of
Utah Lake. City officials liked some elements of the Utah Lake Authority bill but had concerns
about other things like creating a new taxing entity. Orem Councilor Debby Lauret shared insight
about some of the work they did behind-the-scenes to advocate for better local representation on
the Lake Authority and to remove a monthly tax from the bill provisions. Orem Councilor LaNae
Millett acknowledged their attorney Steve Earl, who was very proactive in collaborating with
legislators on the Utah Lake Authority bill. Ms. Ellsworth noted that the Provo City Council did
not take a position on the Lake Authority bill; she noted it would be an issue that both cities
                                                                                                                1
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
should continue to watch as things often change rapidly at the state level and there is ongoing
concern about some of the independent authorities created by the state. Councilor Bill Fillmore
suggested that Provo and Orem co-sponsor a forum in which scientists and representatives of the
developer could present information in a public manner. Ms. Ellsworth suggested that a non-
profit organization might be a better arbiter of such an event. Discussion only.

2.      A discussion on Provo’s form of government (0:17:34)

Orem Mayor David Young shared some of his basic questions about Provo’s form of
government. Wayne Parker, CAO, introduced this item and he gave a detailed summary of
Provo’s background information and history on Provo’s form of government.

Orem Councilor Debby Lauret asked about how the Mayor’s veto power works. Mr. Parker
responded to this question and explained that the Mayor can veto any city ordinance, but cannot
veto a resolution if it comes only from the Council as a form of expressing their intent. Councilor
Shannon Ellsworth made the comparison to state legislature and the governor. One challenge of
Provo’s form of government is that it can be harder to communicate information between the
branches of government.

Mayor Young asked more about what the Council thinks about relationship with the Mayor.
Councilor David Shipley said it is really great having a fulltime mayor and that Mayor Kaufusi
does a great job. He noted there are sometimes challenges with getting different branches of
government on the same page, but that was a reality of any form of government. In response to a
question from Ms. Lauret, Ms. Ellsworth highlighted the role of each of the Council staff
members. Ms. Lauret asked for a copy of the Council office budget to understand the staffing.

Councilor Bill Fillmore shared additional comments about the role of the Council executive
director and complimented the leadership of Cliff Strachan who was the former Provo Council
Executive Director. Mr. Fillmore also commented on Provo’s form of government, and he
likened it to a constitutional model. He thought that the size and complexity of Provo really
demands a full-time mayor. Mr. Fillmore noted that the reasons he prefers this form of
government for Provo is also the same reason he prefers this form of government for Utah
County and why he advocated for it in the past. He felt that more diverse representation and the
checks and balances of this system are really critical for Utah County.

Terry Peterson, Orem City Council, asked some practical questions about how something (such
as a funding request) gets approved. Mr. Parker and Ms. Ellsworth responded to this question
and explained how things work in Provo’s form of government. Discussion only.

3.      A discussion on Provo’s school district structure (0:47:30)

Council Chair Travis Hoban introduced this item and invited questions from Orem. Mr. Hoban
shared insight about some of the benefits of having a co-terminus school district. Being able to
coordinate, prioritize, and plan together is helpful, but the overlap can often be confusing for
citizens who may not necessarily distinguish between the two entities. Councilor Bill Fillmore
also shared comments about what he perceived as benefits of the system. Councilor Shannon

                                                                                                   2
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
Ellsworth offered several suggestions to Orem City about individuals they could contact at the
Provo School District who could offer their perspectives. Mr. Hoban noted that the Provo School
District was created in 1898. Mr. Hoban also shared a comment from Isaac Paxman, Deputy
Mayor, about some of the benefits to citizens of a co-terminus district. Discussion only.

4.      A discussion on effective or successful affordable housing initiatives (0:53:08)

Councilor Shannon Ellsworth introduced this item and shared that Provo is home to about 60%
of qualifying affordable housing in Utah County. Orem Mayor David Young commented that
many of the units deemed affordable in Orem were market-rate apartments which were still out
of reach for many individuals and did not facilitate housing ownership for many citizens who
wished to establish themselves as homeowners. Orem Councilor Debby Lauret asked whether
Provo had considered inclusionary zoning. Ms. Ellsworth indicated that Provo has not pursued
this; one of the challenges in Provo is that most of the city is built out, so most projects are infill
development. Councilor Bill Fillmore hoped Provo could obtain more middle-range housing.

Bill Peperone, Development Services Director, commented on affordable housing projects in
Provo in recent years and currently under construction which utilized federal tax credits. He
thought that Provo’s having higher density zoning in place for those particular properties made
the process smoother for developers to do these types of projects without much of the guesswork
that is often inherent in the entitlement process. Discussion only.

5.      A discussion on other items of mutual interest as time permits

Additional items were deferred for discussion at a future meeting. Councilor Shannon Ellsworth
thanked all for their participation and encouraged everyone to attend the spring conference of the
Utah League of Cities and Towns, which was a tremendous resource on municipal issues.

Adjournment
Adjourned by unanimous consent.




                                                                                                          3
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Elizabeth VanDerwerken – Executive Assistant
