Please note: these minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.


                                   PROVO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                   Joint Meeting with Orem City - Minutes
                                   12:00 PM, Thursday, September 10, 2020
                                   Electronic meeting: youtube.com/provocitycouncil



 Agenda (0:00:00)

 Roll Call
 The following Provo and Orem elected officials and executive staff participated:
   Council Chair George Handley                   Debby Lauret, Orem City Councilor
   Isaac Paxman, Deputy Mayor                     Brent Sumner, Orem City Councilor
   Councilor Dave Sewell                          Jeff Lambson, Orem City Councilor
   Councilor Dave Shipley                         Terry Peterson, Orem City Councilor
   Councilor Bill Fillmore                        Jamie Davidson, Orem City Manager
   Councilor Shannon Ellsworth                    Steven Downs, Orem Deputy City Manager
   Council Vice-chair Dave Harding                Brenn Bybee, Orem Asst. City Manager
   Mayor Michelle Kaufusi                         Jody Bates, Orem City Recorder
   Mayor Richard Brunst, Orem

 Prayer
 The prayer was offered by Councilor David Sewell.

 Business

 1.       A discussion regarding a study for a flood zone map update along Provo River. (20-
          124) (0:13:26)

 Jamie Huff, Utah Division of Emergency Management, shared information on the study, which
 would eventually result in some updates to the area’s flood maps. He noted that most of the
 affected area was in Provo. This was part of a process begun in 2016 and the plan is available to
 the public. Mr. Huff responded to several questions from Provo City Councilors regarding Deer
 Creek reservoir and the impact of dams on the Provo River floodplain. Presentation only.

 2.       A discussion regarding COVID-19 policies and responses. (20-123) (0:45:43)

 Council Chair George Handley shared news of the Provo City Council’s recent mask ordinance.
 He asked Orem officials about their pandemic response thus far. proportion of cases in the state.
Please note: these minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.

 Orem Mayor Richard Brunst shared comments. Orem Councilor Debby Lauret was interested in
 the Provo City Council’s line of thinking; Orem supported masks but were not sure if a mandate
 was the right approach. Mr. Handley shared background regarding the Council’s deliberative
 process. Councilors David Harding and Shannon Ellsworth added their comments as well.
 There was a robust public dialogue throughout the process as well. Councilors reiterated that
 the ordinance was attached to a civil fine and was not intended to criminalize behavior. He
 indicated that the City Administration, responsible for enforcement, could better speak to that
 issue. Deputy Mayor Isaac Paxman shared comments in that vein. Councilors also noted that
 much of the effort focused on education and encouragement. Councilor David Sewell shared
 data that illustrated increased compliance of mask-wearing with successful lowering of the
 spread of the virus. Mr. Handley expressed a hope that Provo and Orem as neighboring cities
 could continue to work together to lead out in Utah County.

 3.       A discussion regarding additional items as time permits. (1:16:47)

 Mayor Brunst was interested in more information regarding Provo’s relationship with Google
 on Google Fiber. He noted that has 5G has been mandated by the State Legislature, Orem has
 started to see the technology arrive through various service providers in the area.

 Councilor Shannon Ellsworth asked about Orem’s efforts to preserve recreation opportunities in
 the foothills and Provo Canyon. Mayor Brunst expressed their support of Provo City in
 protecting these natural resources. Ms. Ellsworth expressed an interest in bringing in multiple
 partners to discuss long-range plans for Provo Canyon. She noted that the U.S. Forest Service,
 Orem and Provo Cities, and Utah County would be important entities to involve to make sure
 that expectations and goals are aligned for the coming years.

 Orem Councilor Debby Lauret shared details of the new facilities which have opened or are
 opening soon in Orem.

 Adjournment
 Adjourned by unanimous consent.
