Please note: these minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.


                                      PROVO MUNICIPAL COUNCIL
                                      Council Retreat Meeting Minutes
                                      4:00 PM, Thursday, March 05, 2020
                                      Provo Power, 251 W 800 N, Provo, UT 84601




Agenda

Roll Call
 The following elected officials were present at the meeting:
                                                        Council Chair George Handley
                                                        Council Vice-Chair David Harding
                                                        Councilor Shannon Ellsworth
                                                        Councilor William Fillmore
                                                        Councilor Travis Hoban
                                                        Councilor David Sewell
                                                        Councilor David Shipley
                                                        Mayor Michelle Kaufusi, arrived 4:20 PM


Prayer
Clifford Strachan

Closed Meeting
The Municipal Council or the Governing Board of the Redevelopment Agency will consider a
motion to close the meeting for the purposes of holding a strategy session to discuss pending or
reasonably imminent litigation, and/or to discuss the purchase, sale, exchange, or lease of real
property, and/or the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of an
individual in conformance with § 52-4-204 and 52-4-205 et. seq., Utah Code.


Councilor Bill Fillmore made a motion to close the meeting. Seconded by George Handley.

Business

1        Training on effective board/committee/council meetings. (20-058)

Bill Hulterstrom, President and CEO of United Way, presented. Mr. Hulterstrom shared his
training “Principles of Successful Governance.” The training focused on how to build effective
committees, the roles of the council, vision and mission, and what makes a good neighborhood
and community.


                                                                                                                1
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Amanda Ercanbrack – City Recorder
Please note: these minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.

2        A report on General Plan progress. (20-060)

John Magness, Policy Analyst, shared the status of the current General Plan goals. The council
was presented with a condensed version of a much larger spreadsheet that is used to track the
status of each goal identified by the General Plan. Mr. Strachan noted this was a tedious process
and took about two months to get updates from all the departments.

Many major milestones had been met including work at the airport, transportation improvements,
and trails. Other goals had not been completed for various reasons, which included budget
limitations and the need for direction from Council. A copy of the complete report is available
upon request.

Mr. Parker explained the history of Provo’s General Plan. One of the earliest plans took a model
from California and tried to make it fit Provo. Then there was a period when previous
administrations were not proponents General Plans. In 2003 or 2004 one director pushed very
hard for a plan and had some support from Council but the necessary resources were never
allocated. It wasn’t until a few years later when Mayor Curtis’ administration started the Vision
2030 effort that pushed the community into a planning mindset. But now the City was 20 years
overdue for a General Plan overhaul.

The Council discussed the need for an updated General Plan and the possibility of using a
consultant. Mr. Parker agreed the best option would be to hire a consultant. He said Gary
McGinn, Director of Community and Neighborhood Services, could do it but did not have time.
Councilor Ellsworth estimated the cost of outsourcing could be $80,000 to $150,000. Councilor
Handley thought not allocating the money delayed what was already overdue and attempting to
do this inhouse would also cause delay.

Mr. Parker said an attempt had been made create Vision 2050, but instead of a community
process like they had when designing Vision 2030, they consulted with the various boards and
commissions and the result was more like Vision 2030, version 2.0.

Mr. Strachan and Councilor Ellsworth thought if they were going to create a new plan, the vision
should be built in. Mr. Harding agreed and thought the first chapter of a new plan would be the
vision and the following chapters would help to implement the vision.

Hannah Salzl, Policy Analyst, shared that Community and Neighborhood Services staff and the
Planning Commission were working on a recommendation for Council that would be shared in a
future work meeting. Her initial indication was that they preferred a concise document that
references other plans, such as the Transportation Master Plan. The Council looked forward to
hearing their recommendation and there was a general feeling of support to move forward with
updating the General Plan.

Councilor Sewell had questions about the public participation process and what that might look
like with a consultant. Councilor Ellsworth had professional experience in this area and she
explained that companies like Y2 Analytics will often partner with firms to provide quality


                                                                                                                2
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Amanda Ercanbrack – City Recorder
Please note: these minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.

feedback and data from the community. They were also able to facilitate stakeholder groups,
townhall meetings, etc.

This item would be revisited following the report from the Planning Commission and staff.

3        A discussion on Council Priorities. (20-059)

Hannah Salzl, Policy Analyst, presented the previous Council’s priorities, there were five areas
of focus: affordable housing, budget to priorities, economic development, zoning compliance,
and Vision 2050/General Plan. After reviewing and discussing the 2018-2019 priorities, the
Council discussed what their priorities could be for 2020-2021.

List of Priorities to Consider:
* Italicized items had support from the majority of the Council.
* The names in parentheses indicate the members of the Council and the member of staff who
will further refine the goal before the Council determines which ones they would like to pursue.

    ● General Plan/Vision (Councilors Ellsworth and Hoban, Staff: Clifford Strachan)
          ○ Connectivity
                 ■ west side to east and central Provo
                 ■ Physical (transportation, access to Downtown, mass-transit)
                 ■ Cultural integration (will hopefully follow after transportation as people
                     from each side visit the other)
          ○ Communication
          ○ Economic Development
          ○ Administration will collaborate and coordinate
    ● Inclusive Outreach/ Community Building (Councilors Handley and Ellsworth, Staff:
      Karen Tapahe)
          ○ Broadening the base of outreach; proactively reaching out to all sectors of the
              community
          ○ Promoting a harmonious community
    ● Economic Development Outreach
          ○ Publicize to residents (possibly under umbrella of communication)
    ● Enhance gateways to the City (Councilors Fillmore and Ellsworth, Staff: Hannah Salzl)
    ● Research Park - economic incubator (Councilors Shipley and Fillmore, Staff: John
      Magness)
          ○ Would be compatible with west side integration and airport zoning
    ● Housing Sustainability (Councilors Ellsworth, Shipley, and Harding, Staff: John
      Magness)
          ○ Sustainable from a community point of view for the life cycle stages of residents
          ○ Housing for public safety, teachers, nurses, etc.
    ● NIMBYism
          ○ reduce/ flip to YIMBY
                                                                                                                3
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Amanda Ercanbrack – City Recorder
Please note: these minutes have been prepared with a timestamp linking the agenda items to the video
discussion. Electronic version of minutes will allow citizens to view discussion held during council meeting.

    ● Zoning Compliance
          ○ Interest in keeping the Zoning Committee, but it might not need to be a priority
             again
          ○ Reduce staff turnover
          ○ Review strategic plan
    ● Figure out what Provo is good at and promote it (less a priority itself and more a thought
      to guide choosing priorities)
          ○ Could be resources, entrepreneurism, anything
          ○ “Live, Work, Play” is a lot -- maybe the City can choose 2
          ○ We’re good at:
                 ■ Social media companies
          ○ This will take collaboration with the economic development director
    ● Revamp/revitalize neighborhood programs
          ○ Help them to better understand and meet the goals of the program
    ● Natural Amenities - Plan, Preserve, Promote - our outdoor opportunities are part of our
      greatness (Councilors Handley, Ellsworth, and Sewell, Staff: Hannah Salzl)
          ○ Foothills
          ○ Provo River
          ○ Utah Lake
                 ■ catalyze /facilitate long-term development and protection
          ○ Trails

A final list of priorities would be decided upon in a future meeting after the goals have been
refined by the assigned councilors and staff.

Adjournment
The meeting was adjourned by unanimous consent at 8:00 p.m.




                                                                                                                4
https://documents.provo.org/onbaseagendaonline
Amanda Ercanbrack – City Recorder
