                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 27, 2021


 Item #4*      Provo City Public Works Department has requested Ordinance Text amendments to Section 15.03.020(3)
               of the Provo City Code to update the engineering design standards for 2022. Citywide application.
               Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20210341



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 27, 2021:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Ally Jones
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Ally Jones, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Brian Henrie, Dave Anderson
Robert Knudsen
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • Citywide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • This item was Citywide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. No issues were raised at the hearing.


                                                        Page 1 of 2
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission recognized the technical nature of the proposed changes, and that they occur annually.
   • The Commission asked for any big changes that affect what the Planning Commission would review.
   • Brian Henrie suggested some other standards to be adopted including landscape islands in the on-street parking
       areas, and other traffic calming designs.
   • Lisa Jensen noted that the presentation to the City Council should include slides of the changes.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
