                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                       July 14, 2021


 *ITEM 2       Scott Bowles requests a Zone Change from Regional Commercial (SC3) to Interim Transit Oriented
               Development (ITOD) for approximately 21 acres located at 1200 S Towne Center Blvd. East Bay
               Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org PLRZ20210075


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of July
14, 2021:

                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Brian Henrie, Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, and Robert
Knudsen

Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
The property proposed to be rezoned to the Interim Transit Oriented Development Zone (ITOD) is described in the attached
Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also continued the related Concept Plan, Item 1, at the July 14, 2021 hearing.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • Staff gave a favorable review for this rezone application.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on April 1, 2021.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
    • The East Bay Neighborhood Chair was not present for the meeting.
    • Staff noted that most submitted comments were favorable toward the proposed rezone. They summarized
      comments from the Public, as follows:
                                                        Page 1 of 4
            o   Generally supportive comments:
                   ▪ There is a shortage of housing (especially on the more affordable end of the spectrum). This
                       proposal could help with the shortage.
                   ▪ The proposed development could provide housing for medical students from the Noorda Medical
                       College.
                   ▪ The proposed project is close to public transit options.
                   ▪ Transit oriented development is more friendly (than many other types of development) to the
                       issue of traffic congestion and air quality.
            o   Comments from those opposed to the proposal:
                   ▪ The City is approving too much high-density housing.
                   ▪ Why are we approving more large developments in the middle of a drought.
                   ▪ The developer is proposing to add more housing units to over-taxed utility systems.
                   ▪ We need more stores at the mall, not dwelling units.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
  • Mr. Scott Bowles explained the constraints Provo Town Centre Mall has in working through a rezone and concept
      plan process.
  • He explained the Mall has multiple interested parties and their own set of guiding documents to navigate through
      in working with us.
  • The applicant wants to work with the City to pin-down the zoning for the subject property. After the zoning is in
      place, they will submit a project plan application with all required details, plans, etc. Buildings would be sited to
      not negatively impact utilities lines.
  • After explaining parking arrangements with tenants at the mall, he emphatically stated that the only location that
      will work for a housing development at the mall is the subject property.
  • He explained some lessons he learned from observing apartment development near a mall in a neighboring city.
      One apartment complex he is aware of—although near restaurants and shops—is surrounded by pavement.
      Having a development that is cohesive with the mall is important.
  • Staff asked for guarantees that there would be a solid connection between the mall and the proposed development,
      or no sectioning-off of the development, and that a safe route for pedestrians to the UVX be identified and
      guaranteed. The applicant expressed uncertainty on what guarantees they can provide at this stage of the
      development.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • There was a lack of consensus on whether the ITOD Zone is appropriate for the subject property.
   • The Planning Commission voted to continue this item. The motion passed, 6-0. They want to discuss this
       proposal more at a work-session meeting—to give the applicant more guiding feedback to help facilitate further
       development of the concept plan application. After the applicant revises the concept plan—having received
       feedback from the Planning Commission—the proposed rezone and concept plan will be brough back to a
       regular Planning Commission meeting for consideration.




                                                       Page 2 of 4
                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 4
EXHIBIT A




 Page 4 of 4
