                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  September 28, 2022


*ITEM #2       Jon Jensen requests approval of General Plan Amendments to Section 1.2.9 (Lakeview North
               Neighborhood) and appendix C5 (Lakeview Fields SDP) as part of rezone requests from the R1.20 zone
               to the VLDR (Very Low Density Residential) zone for property at 1878 N and 1804 N Geneva Road.
               Lakeview North Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
               PLGPA20220182


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 28, 2022:

                                     RECOMMENDED DENIAL
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council deny the above noted application.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Melissa Kendall
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Melissa Kendall, Lisa Jensen, Andrew South, Raleen Whalin
(Jeff Whitlock abstained)
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

MAP AMENDMENT
The proposed map amendment is attached as Exhibit B.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
   • David Day (City Engineering) confirmed that there are infrastructure constraints on the westside and increased
       density alone would not help pay for additional services.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.
• Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.



                                                        Page 1 of 9
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Becky Bogdin stated that neighbors support the current standards and are against the proposed amendments.
    • Dan Bahr stated that he is not in support of the requested changes to the General Plan.
    • Erin May stated she is against the plan and that areas for higher density are already addressed in the area plan.
    • Lynn Dalton was hopeful that his property could develop at higher density and supportive of the changes.
    • Lee Sands stated he supported the changes for reasons of property rights.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jon Jensen shared his experience of trying to bring this proposal forward for several years and believes things
       have changed since 2020 that should open up the area for higher density.
   • Jay Henrie gave an overview of the concept that would be brought forward for the property on 1804 N Geneva if
       the proposed General Plan amendments were approved. He detailed the proposed sewer connections, use, and
       application of “grey-water” systems to help mitigate the concerns on infrastructure limits. He reiterated his belief
       that the proposal would not put a strain on wastewater or water capacity. He believes he needs the higher density
       to make the project attractive and financially sound.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Raleen Whalin inquired about the needs and reasons for the higher density request and asked the applicant about
       unit prices in his concept plans.
   • Lisa Jensen noted that while the system mitigation efforts were helpful for applicants’ specific project, the entire
       westside of the City would be allowed to increase density with the proposal which could have infrastructure and
       financial implications for the City.
   • Jeff Whitlock stated that there was not a lot of information and data to back up the claims of the applicant, and
       that the property could also be sold to someone who doesn’t apply mitigating measures.
   • The Commission agreed that the main concerns stated in the staff report have not been addressed and that the City
       should not vary from the adopted plans for the westside that have taken a lot of time and study to establish. The
       proposed changes would undermine previous planning efforts.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

                                                       Page 2 of 9
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 9
EXHIBIT A




Page 4 of 9
Page 5 of 9
Page 6 of 9
Page 7 of 9
Page 8 of 9
EXHIBIT B




Page 9 of 9
