                                    Provo City Planning Commission
                                         Report of Action
                                                   April 22, 2020


*Item 8      The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Chapters
             14.33 and 15.05 of the Provo City Code to update the development requirements of lands located within the
             Special Flood Hazard Area. Citywide. Robert Mills 801-852-6407 rmills@provo.org PLOTA20190328




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of April
22, 2020:


                                         Recommend Approval
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted
application.

Motion By: David Anderson
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: David Anderson, Andrew Howard, Deborah Jensen, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Laurie
Urquiaga, and Maria Winden
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
     changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and
     determination.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission
included the following:
   • This item was also heard at the November 13, 2019 Planning Commission hearing. At the time the item was
       continued to allow for additional information and to wait for the Public Works Department to update its design
       manual for stormwater; which has now occurred.
   • Staff explained that since that time, FEMA has released new Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM) for Provo with
       an effective date of June 2020. The new ordinance must be adopted prior to the effective date in order to remain
       compliant with federal regulations.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
No public comment was received for this item.
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:

The Planning Commission members discussed some of the content of the amended language and felt comfortable with
the proposed amendment.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item.
    Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
   application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community and Neighborhood Services
   Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
