                                     Provo City Planning Commission
                                         Report of Action
                                                      July 13, 2022


Item 4         Lindy Deller requests Concept Plan approval for three industrial buildings in a proposed Airport
               Industrial (AI), located at 3701 W Center Street. Provo Bay Neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801) 852-
               6414 dwright@provo.utah.gov PLCP20210292



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of July
13, 2022:


                              APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

Conditions of Approval:
1. The development agreement is approved and recorded.
2. Council approval of the zone change (PLRZ20210263) to Airport Industrial zone.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen, Raleen Wahlin, Andrew South, Lisa Jensen, Daniel
Gonzales,

Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
July 13, 2022 - Planning Commission - Item 5 - PLRZ20210263

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*Warehouse and office space – permitted uses in the AI zone.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*970 Total parking stalls required
*1020 Total parking stalls provided

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Applies - referred applicant to Council Attorney.




                                                       Page 1 of 3
STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.
• There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that are addressed with the
   Development Agreement that is part of the rezone request PLRZ20210263.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held, and this item was placed on Open City Hall.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• No comments were made during the hearing.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• There will be a traffic study completed as part of the final project plan.
• The applicant has the property under contract and will see it through the development process.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Center St. is an arterial street and would have the capacity to accommodate the volume of traffic from a development
   like this.
• The developer would dedicate needed right-of-way and construct street improvements for the development, and this
   is included in the proposed development agreement that the applicant has been working on with city staff.
• In a year from now, the infrastructure will be in place for this development to tie into.
• This concept plan will come back to the Planning Commission as a final project plan following rezone approval.
• This development will fit in the area and potentially help support airport growth.




                 Planning Commission Chair



              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.




                                                        Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center St., Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
