                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   September 13, 2023

 *ITEM #2     Development Services requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Chapter 14.33A Critical Hillside
              Overlay Zone. Citywide Application. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org
              PLOTA20230163

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of
September 13, 2023:
                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above-noted
application.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Raleen Wahlin

Votes in Favor of Motion: Raleen Wahlin, Andrew South, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Barbara DeSoto,
Jonathon Hill, and Robert Knudsen

Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
      changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and
      determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations.

DISTRICT MEETING DATE
    • Citywide Application; all neighborhood chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD, DISTRICT, AND PUBLIC COMMENT
   • No district chairs were present.
   • No public comment was received.

 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
    • Lisa Jensen noted that this proposal will lead to tighter development patterns in the Critical Hillside Overlay Zone.
        She questioned how staff sell such to the public. Brandon Larsen of Development Services pointed out landscape
        architects will be vouching for development design. He also explained that the point of tighter development
        patterns was to preserve open space.
    • Lisa Jensen recommended a technical change to the proposed amendment to the definition of “Limits of
        Disturbance. She recommended that the associated alphabetical list be eliminated and the language in the list be

                                                        Page 1 of 7
        included in the main body of the definition. That change has been made in the attached language of the proposed
        amendments.
    •   Lisa Jensen referenced the cluster density bonus provisions in the Critical Hillside Overlay Zone and wondered
        if someone could obtain those in addition to density bonuses allowed by open space subdivisions and performance
        developments (see Chapter 14.31, Provo City Code). Bill Peperone, Development Services Director, referenced
        a proposed amendment to the Performance Development chapter of the Code, and stated that the issue
        Commissioner Jensen noted would be addressed in that proposal.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
   office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 7
                                                 EXHIBIT A
Proposed Amendments

14.33A.020
Definitions.
“Limits of disturbance (LOD)” means the area(s) of a development in which construction and development
activity are to be contained, including development and construction of the main building, accessory
structures, and recreation areas. The following need not be included in limits of disturbance: Areas
consisting of natural ponds, streams, trees, and other vegetation where no grading work is done.


       (a) Up to ten (10) feet of paved or unpaved shoulders for driveways.


       (b) Areas consisting of natural ponds, streams, trees, and other vegetation where no grading work
       is done.


“Natural open space” means land in an predominantly open and undeveloped condition that is suitable for
any of the following: natural areas; wildlife and native plant habitat; important wetlands or watershed
lands; stream corridors; passive, low-impact activities; little or no land disturbance; or trails for
nonmotorized activities.


                                                        …


14.33A.090
Limits of Disturbance (LOD).

(1) Limits of disturbance shall be located and identified on development plans indicating the specific area(s)
of a property where construction and development activity shall be contained.

(2) Limits of disturbance for a single lot or parcel may be segmented. No , but no more than forty percent
(40%) of a lot development or parcel may be included in the LOD. However, a dwelling site located
predominately (more than 50%) within the LOD may have 10% of the portion of its area within the LOD
disturbed, except that an additional ten percent (10%) of the lot may be disturbed for landscaping only,
including nonnative vegetation, and shall be considered within the LOD.

(3) Upon request of the applicant, and only for those properties developed prior to establishment of the CH

                                                     Page 3 of 7
Zone, the Development Services Director may offer relief of the standards in this Section by up to ten percent
(10%), only if the Director finds one (1) of the following circumstances applies:

    (a) The adjustment is designed to yield more effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation,
    riparian areas, rock outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site; or

    (b) Strict application of the standard(s) would prohibit any development on the site.

                                                       …


14.33A.220
Cluster Developments.

(1) The Planning Commission may approve a request for the clustering of a proposed development in the CH
Zone, as set forth herein, if all of the following standards are met:

    (a) At least twenty-five percent (25%) of the proposed cluster development is preserved as passive or
    active natural open space.

    (ab) The applicant shall submit a report that has been stamped by an engineer and landscape architect
    licensed in Utah that attests the clustering proposal will have no adverse impact on adjacent properties,
    or, if such impacts are anticipated, such report will detail these impacts and recommend mitigation
    measures, such as landscape, screening, illumination standards, and other design features. If impacts are
    anticipated, as set forth in the above-mentioned report, the applicant shall enter into an agreement with
    the City to implement and maintain appropriate mitigation measures, approved by the City Engineer, to
    buffer and protect adjacent properties from the proposed clustered development. The developer’s Utah
    licensed engineer and landscape architect shall verify that the recommended mitigation measures have
    been incorporated into the development. The responsibility – throughout the development process – for
    verifying mitigation measures shall be the responsibility of the developer’s Utah licensed engineer and
    landscape architect;

    (bc) The Planning Commission, based upon the findings of a report submitted by the applicant and
    stamped by an engineer and landscape architect licensed in the State of Utah, finds that the clustering
    proposal, compared with a conventional development, better attains the policies and objectives of the CH
    Zone, such as providing more natural open space, preserving existing trees and vegetation coverage, and
    preserving sensitive environmental areas such as stream corridors, geological sensitive areas, prominent
    ridgelines, wetlands, and steep slopes; and

    (d) The Design Review Committee issues an opinion that the architecture, height, building materials,
    building colors, and other design features of the development blend with the surrounding natural
    landscape and are compatible with adjacent properties or development.
                                                Page 4 of 7
(2) To encourage the clustering of development, a density bonus is provided, as follows:

    (a) In the A1 Zones (except for the A1.1 Zone), a cluster density bonus of fifty percent (50%) over the base
    density is permitted for those developments that satisfy the standards in Subsection (1) of this Section.

    (ba) In the A1.1 Zones, RA Zone, R1 Zones (except the R1.6 and R1.7 Zones), and R2 Zone, and RA Zone, a
    cluster density bonus of twenty-five percent (25%) over the base density is permitted for those cluster
    developments that satisfy the standards in Subsection (1) of this Section. To facilitate clustering, the area,
    width, and depth of lots may be reduced by up to twenty-five percent (25%) from such requirements in
    the base zone; however, in no case shall the depth of a lot be less than seventy-five (75) feet.

    (cb) The allowable density bonus for a cluster development shall be calculated based on net developable
    acreage. Such resulting number shall be rounded to the nearest whole number, but in no case less than
    one (1).

(3) Cluster developments shall meet the following design standards and applicants for such shall provide the
written opinion of a landscape architect and/or engineer licensed in the State of Utah that the following design
standards have been met:

    (a) The undeveloped area of the development site shall be preserved as active or passive natural open
    space. Natural open space areas shall provide contiguity with adjacent natural open space and/or
    conservation areas; protect unique natural, historical, or cultural site features and resources; avoid
    fragmentation of open space areas within the site; and preserve existing, legal public access.

    (b) No more than thirty (30) lots are allowed in a single cluster. Each cluster shall be separated from other
    residential clusters by a minimum of one hundred (100) feet.

    (c) The layout of a cluster development shall protect significant natural resources within the proposed
    development. Natural resources include riparian areas, wetlands, ecological resources, and steep slopes
    and ridgelines. The overall site design shall employ the site’s natural topography to hide multiple
    residential clusters from the sight of adjacent clusters.

    (d) Cluster development shall preserve the following:

        (i) Open sky backdrop above those ridgelines designated for protection by the Planning Commission;
        and

        (ii) Significant views of the natural landscape as viewed from adjacent streets.




                                                    Page 5 of 7
(4)




                  Figure 14.33A.19. Development – Permitted




      (This development was clustered and preserved significant areas of open space.)




                                       Page 6 of 7
(5)




            Figure 14.33A.20. Development – Not Permitted




      (This development was not clustered; little open space exists in the area.)




                                     Page 7 of 7
