                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   November 18, 2020


 *ITEM 4        The Development Services Dept. requests a Zone Change from the Community Shopping Center (SC2)
                zone to the Neighborhood Shopping Center (SC1) and Medium Density Residential (MDR) zones for
                approximately 11 acres, located at 1920 W Center Street. Fort Utah Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore
                (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20200282



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 18, 2020:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 5:2, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Daniel Gonzales
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga, Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Lisa Jensen
Votes Against the Motion: Dave Anderson, Brian Henrie
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the MDR and SC1 Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.


DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff gave an overview of the request and a history of the site and General Plan for the property.
Economic Development staff gave a brief overview of the communications with the property owners and stated that the
item won’t go before the City Council right away to give the property owners time to evaluate options.




                                                         Page 1 of 4
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 09/03/2020.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was present and addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present and addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Jonathon Hill, Fort Utah neighborhood chair, stated that the SC1 zone is a useful addition to the request and
        understands the limits of the site and the history. He believes the neighborhood goals are aligned with Planning
        Staff.
    • Rick Cox shared his feelings that Smith’s is still working towards a grocery store on the property and is not in
        favor of changing the zone as it may limit the options for the property.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Laurie Urquiaga inquired about the response from the property owners regarding the zone change, staff replied
       that the Cox family is interested in following Smith’s lead.
   • Lisa Jensen shared concerns regarding traffic movement to and through the site and if the SC1 zone area was
       large enough.
   • Deborah Jensen asked staff about design standards for the SC1 and directed staff to bring forward some design
       regulations that could help the future development to be a well-designed mixed-use center.
   • Daniel Gonzales believes that Smith’s could always come back and change the zone to fit their needs if they get
       serious about a grocery store, but that moving forward with this request seemed like the right thing to do.
   • Many of the Planning Commission members stated their desire to let this proposal move forward, noting that
       there will be time before the Council makes a decision on it, and that should give time for Smith’s to decide what
       they would like to do with their portion of the land.




               Planning Commission Chair




            Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.


                                                      Page 2 of 4
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 4
EXHIBIT A




            Page 4 of 4
