                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                       June 9, 2021


 *ITEM 4       Sidney Allsop requests a Zone Change for approximately .80 acres from Residential Conservation (RC)
               to Medium Density Residential (MDR) for a townhome development, located at 690 E 500 S. Maeser
               Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org PLRZ20210086


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of June 9,
2021:

               RECOMMENDED APPROVAL WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, and Robert
Knudsen

Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
The property to be rezoned to the Medium Density Residential Zone (MDR) is described in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also approved the related Concept Plan, Item 3, at the June 9, 2021 hearing.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was waived by the Neighborhood Chair.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
    • The Maeser Neighborhood Chair was not present for the meeting.
    • Staff read or summarized comments from the following members of the Public:
          o Diana Larson is concerned about the amount of development occurring in the city, the ongoing drought,
               and depletion of resources and asked the City to be judicious in their decisions.
                                                        Page 1 of 3
            o   Rodney Bills is opposed to the development. Mr. Bills made the following statement: “If changing a
                conservation zone becomes as simple as purchasing a property and applying for a zoning change then the
                hard work of creating zoning laws and the sought-after protections that they were meant to provide
                become meaningless.”
            o   Kathleen and Paul Damron are concerned whether the proposed development would raise property taxes.
                They also questioned whether the development would increase the need for police patrols and impact
                local schools.


APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
  • Mr. Sid Allsop stated the developer would be happy to enter into a development agreement with the City, so that
      the developer obtains desired development rights and to ensure the property is used for single-family residential
      use. He said what you see on the concept plan is essentially what will be developed on the subject property. The
      developer is willing to comply with design standards.


PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioner Lisa Jensen believes the requested use is compatible with existing residences in the area. She
       believes the proposal could help facilitate an owner-occupied development to support existing, owner-occupied
       units near the subject property.
   • Commissioner Lisa Jensen believes the proposed development is a good buffer use (it buffers single-family
       residences to the north from attached residences to the south).
   • Commissioner Laurie Urquiaga made the following motion: Recommendation of approval of the proposed zone
       map amendment with a condition that the applicant enter into a development agreement to develop the attached,
       single-family residential development shown in the proposed, approved concept plan. The motion passed, 6-0.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A




 Page 3 of 3
