                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     April 27, 2022


ITEM 3*       Development Services requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to multiple titles of the City Code,
              including Titles 2, 4, 6, 7, 9, 14, 15 and 17, to replace the department name of Community and
              Neighborhood Services (CNS) with Development Services (DS). Citywide Application. Melissa
              McNalley (801) 852-6164 mmcnalley@provo.org PLOTA20220101



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of April
27, 2022:

                                          Recommend Approval
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended the Municipal Council approve the above noted ordinance text
amendment to Provo City Code Titles 2,4,6,7,9,14,15 and 17.

Motion By: Brian Henrie
Second By: Peter Fife
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, David Knudsen, Laurie Urquiaga, Brian Henrie, Miles Miller, Daniel
Gonzales, and Peter Fife

Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF/APPLICANT PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following:
   • Community and Neighborhood Services department is now part of Development Services department.
   • The code should be changed to be consistent with what is organizationally in place and reflective of department
       responsibilities.
   • Combining Community and Neighborhood Services and Development Services into one department reduces
       confusion to the public.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • There was no public comment on this item.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
  • Commissioner Laurie Urquiaga asked whether the change in departments had taken place already and was
      informed that it has. Community and Neighborhood Services is now effectively Development Services.
      Commissioner Urquiaga stated we should make the code consistent with what is already in place.
                 Planning Commission Chair




       Director of Development Services Department

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West
    100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office
    hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
