                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 23, 2024


    *ITEM #3     Provo City Council Office requests Ordinance Text Amendments to Sections 6.02.080 (License
                 Suspension or Revocation), 14.06.020 (Definitions), and 14.30.030 (Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)
                 Development Standards) to update and clarify standards related to ADUs. Citywide application. Melia
                 Dayley (801) 852-6136 mdayley@provo.org PLOTA20240274

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 23, 2024:


                                     RECOMMENDED DENIAL
On a vote of 4:1, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council deny the above noted application.

Motion By: Jeff Whitlock
Second By: Adam Shin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Jeff Whitlock, Adam Shin, Daniel Gonzales, Andrew South
Votes Against the Motion: Lisa Jensen
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•     New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
      Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Melia Dayley noted the purpose and need for the proposed changes and answered Planning
Commission questions regarding enforcement.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood District Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.




                                                        Page 1 of 6
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
    • Melia Dayley noted that the amendments intentionally allow for discretion from code enforcement and legal in
        verifying owner-occupancy on rental units, specifically with LLCs.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioners noted concerns with strict LLC regulations, that all owners of an LLC having to live in the home
       goes too far, and that a different percentage requirement would be a fairer approach.
   • Commissioners believe that the main issue is people that don’t apply for a rental license, and that these changes
       don’t do anything to address that and may even make it more difficult to get people to comply.
   • Planning Commission suggested that the changes in 14.30.030 reference the same list of documents for
       verification that is used in the owner-occupancy definition section.
   • Daniel Gonzales noted that he would like to see a requirement for percentage ownership disclosed as a
       requirement with LLCs.
   • There was some discussion of the proposed regulations being too difficult for people in unusual living
       circumstances or for those that need help buying homes.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
The Commission did not feel comfortable with the lack of a clear verification process, documentation for LLCs, and
believes that the proposed changes would make home ownership more difficult, so they recommended denial of the
proposed changes.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS

                                                       Page 2 of 6
                                                          EXHIBIT A

6.26.080

License Suspension or Revocation.

The City may suspend or revoke a rental dwelling business license for any of the reasons set forth in Section
6.01.160 of this Title and for any of the following reasons:

(1) the licensee does not meet the qualifications for a license as provided under this Title;

(2) the licensee gave false or incomplete information on the licensee’s application;

(3) the licensee has allowed the licensed premises to be occupied or operated in a manner contrary to the
conditions set forth in the license; or

(4) the licensee has, or the licensee’s agents or employees have, violated the provisions of the license, this Title, or
any other law while acting in relation to any rental dwelling authorized by the licenseas an agent or employee of the
licensee.

14.06.020

Definitions.

For the purposes of this Title, certain words and phrases have the following meanings:

...

“Owner occupant” means, except as set forth in Subsection (d) (c) of this definition:

...

(b) an individual who:

        (i) is a trustor of a family trust which:

                (A) possesses fee title ownership to a dwelling unit;

                (B) was created for estate planning purposes by one (1) or more trustors of the trust; and

        (ii) occupies the dwelling unit owned by the family trust with a bonafide intent to make it his or her primary
        residence. Each living trustor of the trust must shall so occupy the dwelling unit except for a trustor who
        temporarily resides elsewhere due to a disability or infirmity. In such event, the dwelling unit must shall
        nevertheless be the domicile of the trustor during the trustor’s temporary absence.

(c) an LLC which:

        (i) is currently registered with the state; and



                                                          Page 3 of 6
       (ii) each member of the LLC occupies the dwelling unit with a bonafide intent to make it his or her primary
       residence.

(d)(c) A person who meets the requirements of Subsections (a), (b), or and(c) (b)of this definition may shall not be
deemed an owner occupant if the property on which the dwelling unit is located has more than one (1) owner and
all owners of the property do not occupy the dwelling unit with a bona fide intent to make the dwelling unit their
primary residence

       ...

(e)(d) The provisions of Subsection (d) (c) of this definition shall apply to any person who began a period of owner
occupancy after March 1, 2009, regardless of when the person purchased the property where such person resides.

...

“Primary residence” means the dwelling unit where a person principally or primarily resides, specifically meaning
that the person physically resides in the dwelling unit more than fifty percent of the time.

       (a) When Provo City requires proof that a dwelling unit is the person’s primary residence, the person must
           provide sufficient evidence to prove by a totality of the circumstances that the person:
                 (i) already physically resides in the dwelling unit more than fifty percent of the time and has a
                     genuine intent to continue meeting this requirement; or
           (ii)      has a genuine intent to physically reside in the dwelling unit more than fifty percent of the time
                     going forward.
       (b) It is not necessary to provide every type of evidence listed in this Section to establish residency, nor
           does providing every type of evidence listed definitively establish residency if other evidence exists that
           calls residency into question.
       (c) Potential evidence to establish physical residence may include, but is not limited to:
(a) the place where a person resides and which has the same address as the address shown on the person’s:

               (i) current driver license,

               (ii) current vehicle registration,

               (iii) voter registration card, if any,

               (iv) last filed state tax return, and

               (v) last filed federal tax return,

               (vi) bank or credit card statements,

               (vii) utility bills.

               (viii) inspections of the property,

               (ix) a sworn, notarized affidavit from the applicant; and

               (x) written statements of those having knowledge.

                                                        Page 4 of 6
(b) If the addresses shown on the above-referenced documents are not all the same, then the person whose
name appears on such documents shall be deemed to have no primary residence.

...

14.30.030

Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU) Development Standards.

ADUs shall be subject to the following development standards:

...

(10) Rental Dwelling License. In accordance with Provo City Code Chapter 6.26, Provo City Code, any person
operating an ADU under this Chapter mustshall obtain a rental dwelling license (RDL). Such license shall beThis
RDL is in addition to any building permits that may be necessary. Before a rental dwelling license for an ADU is
issued, the applicant shall:

      (a) In addition to complying with Provo City Code Chapter 6.26, to be eligible for an RDL, a person operating
an ADU under this Chapter must:

         (i)(a) Submit a site plan drawn accurately to scale that shows property lines and dimensions, the location
of existing buildings and building entrances, proposed buildings or additions, dimensions from buildings or
additions to property lines, the location of parking stalls, and utility meters.;

        (ii)(b) Include detailed floor plans drawn to scale with labels on rooms indicating uses or proposed uses.
Floor plans must have the interior connection clearly labeled.;

       (iii)(c) Pay an application fee as shown on the Consolidated Fee Schedule adopted by the Municipal
Council.;

(d) Noncompliance with the standards of this Section shall be just cause for the denial or revocation of a rental
dwelling license for an ADU. Revocation shall be in accordance with the license regulations in Chapters 6.01 and
6.26, Provo City Code.

(e) Notwithstanding Section 6.01.090, Provo City Code, the approval of a rental dwelling license for an ADU shall
automatically expire one (1) year after the date of the approval, or upon transfer of the property to another owner,
whichever occurs first; provided, however, that the existing owner may reapply or the new owner may apply for an
extension of such rental dwelling license.

         (iv)(f) The owner shall cCooperate with the Development Services Department in recording a deed
restriction with the County Recorder evidencing the restrictions under which the ADUaccessory apartment unit is
constructed and occupied. This deed restriction mustshall run with the land as long as the property is in an overlay
zone described in this Chapter, or otherwise contains an ADUaccessory apartment as provided in this Chapter.;

       (v)(g) The owner shall rRenew the rental dwelling license annually.; and




                                                     Page 5 of 6
        (vi) confirmEstablish at the time of the initial application and at every renewal that the dwelling is the
owner’s primary residence by providing at least two of the following forms of verification: a current driver license,
current vehicle registration, voter registration card, last filed state tax return, and/or last filed federal tax return.

        (b)(d) Noncompliance with the standards of this Section isshall be just cause for the denial or revocation
of a rental dwelling license for an ADU. Revocation willshall be in accordance with the license regulations in Provo
City Code Chapters 6.01 and 6.26, Provo City Code.

        (c)(e) Notwithstanding Provo City Code Section 6.01.090, Provo City Code, the approval of a rental
dwelling license for an ADU shall automatically expires one (1) year after the date of the approval, or upon transfer
of the property to another owner, whichever occurs first; provided, however, that the existing owner may reapply or
the new owner may apply for an extension of such rental dwelling license.

        (d) (g) The owner(s) must shall renew the rental dwelling license annually and confirm that the dwelling is
the owner(s)’s primary residence of the owner(s) by providing at least two of the following forms of verification: a
current driver license, current vehicle registration, voter registration card, last filed state tax return, and/or last filed
federal tax return. Changes to the members of the LLC or trustors within the first year of obtaining an ownership
and a rental license, or consistent changes to the same during the rental period, creates a presumption of a sham
transaction as defined in Section 14.01.110 of the Provo City Code.




                                                        Page 6 of 6
