                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                      May 13, 2020


 ITEM #1*       Tom Uriona requests a Zone Change from R1.6A to General Commercial for property located at 852 N 500
                W. North Park neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20200109




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of May
13, 2020:


                               POSITIVE RECOMMENDATION
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Maria Winden
Second By: Russ Phillips
Votes in Favor of Motion: Maria Winden, Russ Phillips, Andrew Howard, Deborah Jensen, Dave Anderson, Laurie
Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
The property to be rezoned to the CG (General Commercial) Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following: An overview and purpose of the zone change.


NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 05/13/2020.
• The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: Mikah Wheatley asked is the idea is to add to the hospital.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Brian Baxter answered questions on behalf of the applicant. Stated they have been leasing the office building but
       wanted to now get the zoning corrected before they purchase it. The use of the building will stay the same.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission had some questions about the reason for the zone change and the intended use of the building.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                                  EXHIBIT A

Lot 1, Plat "A", TROON SOUTH SUBDIVISION, Provo, Utah, according to the official plat thereof, on file,
and of record in the office of the Utah County Recorder.
