                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     January 31, 2024

 Item 1   Provo Parks and Recreation requests Project Plan approval for the Provo River Delta Gateway Park, located at
          301 N Lakeshore Drive, in a proposed OSPR (Open Space, Preservation, and Recreation) Zone. Fort Utah
          Neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLPPA20210131

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of January
31, 2024:
                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
    1. The two parcels are combined into one parcel.
    2. The property is rezoned to OSPR zone.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Andrew South, Barbara DeSoto, Raleen Wahlin, Jonathon Hill,
Meliss Kendall, Daniel Gonzales
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
 PLRZ20220282 January 31, 2024 Planning Commission hearing *Item 2.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
26 Total parking stalls required.
26 Total parking stalls provided.

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • Does not apply.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 03/25/2021.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.


                                                        Page 1 of 2
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
 • No comments were made by the public.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
 • The equestrian trail will be for day use only and there is no overnight parking permitted.
 • The timeline would begin once the rezone is approved and construction would end spring 2025.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
 • The Commission members asked about the trail access to the delta and the river and the health of the river with the
    diversion. The site elevation will be raised to help ensure there are not issues with the sewer connections and flood
    plain.
 • Commission members commented that it will be nice to add connections and improve the trail head and that there
    will be education areas and playgrounds for younger visitors.




                 Planning Commission Chair



              Director of Development Services

 See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
     to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
     of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
     Report of Action.

 Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing.

 Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
    an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
    Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
    City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                        Page 2 of 2
