                                        Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                     February 12, 2020


ITEM 1      John Kollman requests Project Plan approval for 208 apartment units, located at 1400 S State Street in the Medium
Density Residential (MDR) zone. Spring Creek Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
PLPPA20190408




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 12, 2020:


                                 APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 6:1, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
 1. That staff will ensure there is adequate space available for a pedestrian trail west of the new western street to be built.
 2. That the developer will either build a wall along the railroad tracks or will deliver funds for a wall to the Public Works
 Dept. so a wall can be installed when the pedestrian trail is built.

Motion By: Andrew Howard (with added conditions by Lisa Jensen)
Second By: Maria Winden
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Maria Winden, Lisa Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga, Russ Phillips, Robert Knudsen
Votes against the Motion: Dave Anderson
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
    • 208 apartment units
    • One family or three unrelated singles per unit

 APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
    • 438 Parking Stalls
    • 2.1 stalls per unit

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following:
     • Overview of the proposal, noted that final plans still to be reviewed prior to building permits.
    •    Described variety of housing types in the area and reasons for supporting a reduced parking count with the
         provided TDM plan and areas available for spillover on the new streets created by the project.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• Engineering will need to work with developer on right of way for western road/trail against the railroad property.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was present and addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing. Mary Miller
   expressed support for the proposal and is fine with the reduced parking request.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • None during the hearing, but an email from a neighborhood resident is attached to this report.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Parking was affected by the new alignment of the street curving from State street and providing parking for the
       adjacent property just north of the project on State Street.
   • That the development team went through a series of layout and building options, but that the final proposed design
       works best for the area.
   • Explained the four-plex investment model to the Planning Commission, supported by his property management.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioners had questions for staff and applicant on definition of carpool parking spaces.
   • Discussed occupancy allowances for the apartments, and how that will affect parking on the site.
   • Asked developer about other building types and ability to charge for extra parking spaces.
   • Stated that the buffer from the railroad tracks needs to be addressed, but that the plans support from the
       neighborhood is important.
   • Dave Anderson voiced his concerns over the building type, location, site design, and parking strategy.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
