                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    August 28, 2024


    *ITEM #1      Development Services request an Ordinance Text Amendment to Section 14.38.030 (Signs and
                 Outdoor Advertising Exceptions) in order to amend language to sign code exceptions for temporary
                 election campaign signs. Citywide application. Scott Johnson (801) 852-6433 snjohnson@provo.org
                 PLOTA20240187

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
August 28, 2024:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Jonathan Hill
Votes in Favor of Motion: Adam Shin, Lisa Jensen, Andrew South, Jonathon Hill, Melissa Kendall, Barbara DeSoto, Jeff
Whitlock
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood District Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.




                                                        Page 1 of 2
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:

APPLICANT RESPONSE
This is a Staff Initiated application.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• General questions of clarification were asked and answered by city staff.
• Commissioner DeSoto suggested reformatting the proposed text to include bullet points as a potential for clearer
   reading of the text.




                 Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
