                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    January 08, 2025

    ITEM 2   A.L.M and Associates request Concept Plan approval for a 3-unit townhome development in a proposed
             LDR zone, located at 895 W 2000 N. Carterville Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801)852-6404
             aardmore@provo.org PLCP20200182


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
January 08, 2025:
                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Andrew South
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Andrew South, Adam Shin, Daniel Gonzales, Melissa Kendall, Barbara DeSoto,
Jonathon Hill, Anne Black, Jeff Whitlock
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission recommended approval for the related Rezone (1/8 PC agenda, Item 1, PLRZ20190204)

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
• 3 Total Units
• Type of occupancy: Family

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
•  9 Total parking stalls required
•  10 Total parking stalls provided
•  3 Required parking stalls per unit

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff also gave an overview of public feedback received since the report was written; and answered
Planning Commission questions regarding the proposal. Staff noted that due to infrastructure costs, zone standards, and
design regulations the three units proposed would be the most that could be built on the site, even though the LDR Zone
could theoretically have more units.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held in 2019.


                                                        Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was present and addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• An email from Sarah Asay to the Planning Commission noting concerns with due process in a neighborhood meeting,
        the streets’ ability to handle the increase in density, and fairness. Mrs. Asay also spoke at the hearing about
        concerns with costs to rezone and develop other properties on 2000 North and hoped the Commission would
        continue the item.
• An email from Marla Wait to the Planning Commission in support of the proposal, noting that the vacant land is
        currently being wasted.
• Kevin Asay shared concerns about the approval process and whether there would be sufficient parking.
• Sheryl Soelberg stated that the architecture looks nice but has big concerns about utilities; she would like the whole
        street rezoned at once.
• Tony Walters shared concerns about increased traffic from the proposal.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• Mark Greenwood gave a brief history of the project, recognizing that growth can be hard for neighbors, but the
       proposal should not cause any adverse impacts.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• The Commission noted that this seems like a good, small increase in density to make better use of the land. For-sale
       units help address the goals of the city.
• Commissioners encouraged the concerned neighbors to speak with Public Works staff to understand sewer and water
       limits, and costs with any other future developments; and that there are a limited number of properties on 2000
       North that have the same potential due to lot sizes.
• The Commission summarized that the concerns seem to surround future developments with other properties in the
       area, but that this proposal did not cause them any apprehension. The parking would be sufficient even if all three
       units ended up as rentals.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.


                                                       Page 2 of 3
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

               BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                    Page 3 of 3
