                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   November 11, 2020


 Item 3*      The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests a General Plan Amendment to Sections
              1.2.9 and 1.2.10 of the Provo City General Plan, relating to key land use policies and the annexation
              policy plan. Citywide application. Robert Mills (801) 852-6407 rmills@provo.org PLGPA20200357


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 11, 2020:


                                  RECOMMOMEND APPROVAL
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council continue the above noted application

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga, and Brian Henrie
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


 STAFF/APPLICANT PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following:
    • The Annexation Policy Plan and Map should be amended to show that land that is privately held should be in Area
        5 and land that is publicly held should be in Area 6.
    • Property in Area 6 should be incorporated into the city because it will immediately be assigned to the Open Space,
        Preservation, and Recreation (OSPR) Zone.
    • The amendment to the Annexation Policy Plan informs private property owners in Area 5 that their property will
        only be annexed into the city as OSPR zoned property.
    • The proposed amendment also updates the policy plan to remove the recommendation of property using the Project
        Redevelopment Option (PRO) Zone and the Specific Development Plan Overlay Zone so that applicants can meet
        with staff to understand what existing zones would be best for any proposed development.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • There was no neighborhood chair or public comment.


 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   •   Laurie Urquiaga asked if private property owners in, what will be Area 5, had been notified. Staff answered that
       they had not, other than the general notification of the hearing; however, staff also noted that those properties are
       not yet within Provo City.




                 Planning Commission Chair




       Director of Development Services Department

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
   application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community and Neighborhood Services
   Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).
             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
