                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 09, 2022


Item 1         Susan Palmer requests Concept Plan approval for two industrial buildings in a proposed Airport
               Industrial (AI), located at 3701 W Center Street. Provo Bay Neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801) 852-
               6414 dwright@provo.utah.gov PLCP20210292



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
March 09, 2022:


                                                 CONTINUED
On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to a date uncertain.


Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Peter Fife
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Peter Fife, Lisa Jensen, Dan Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga, Brian Henrie, Robert
Knudsen, Miles Miller
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. There are still issues being worked out and the staff recommended continuance of the item.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.
• Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:

                                                        Page 1 of 2
•   The neighborhood chair for Fort Utah said there was general support at the neighborhood meeting with the proposed
    use of the property. There were concerns about the truck traffic that this site would create. The preference would be
    to direct truck traffic to Lakeview Pkwy. instead of Center St. There are a lot of students that cross the street here and
    with that added traffic there are concerns about their safety.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The applicant was not present to comment or respond to the Planning Commission.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• The Commission asked about the parking ratio of the proposed use. There was a discussion about the amount of
   semitruck traffic that will be generated by this land use. The proposed streets were discussed and the standards that
   they would need to comply with. Public Works still has issues that are not addressed on the Concept Plan that could
   be addressed in a development agreement that is still in the works.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                        Page 2 of 2
