                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 22, 2023

     *ITEM 4   Nathan Turner requests approval of a Zone Map Amendment from the RC (Residential Conservation)
               zone to the MDR (Medium Density Residential) zone in order to make site improvements over multiple
               properties and convert a single-family home to a two-family home, located at 141 East 500 North. Joaquin
               Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20220343


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
22, 2023:

                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application
 and suggested that the concept plan amenities are guaranteed.

Motion By: Raleen Wahlin
Second By: Jeff Whitlock
Votes in Favor of Motion: Raleen Wahlin, Jeff Whitlock, Lisa Jensen, Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

 •     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
       noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the MDR Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The related concept plan (PLCP20220351) was approved by the Planning Commission (Item #3, March 22, 2023 hearing).

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*8Total Units

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*30 Total parking stalls provided

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • May apply with future approvals.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.


 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 11/29/2022.

                                                        Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Nathan Turner explained his desire for a cohesive community with future development potential. He stated that
       the duplex conversion allows him the funds to reinvest into amenities for the tenants.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission confirmed the parking count for the properties and that no buildings are being demolished
       initially with the concept plan. The parking supply will be an improvement.
   • The Commission had staff explain the nonconformities on the properties and that the zone change will help the
       property be able to improve and resolve nonconformities.
   • The Planning Commission will see the future Project Plan when the properties are redeveloped.
   • The request aligns with the General Plan and provides improved amenities. They are appreciative of the owner
       wanting to improve the existing property, he is essentially asking to improve the space and the possibilities of
       that are positive.
   • The surrounding properties are already at MDR-type densities and the zone should work well in the block without
       adverse impacts.
   • The Commission requested direction for how to guarantee the site improvements shown on the concept plan and
       made a strong recommendation to carry out amenities as shown at the hearing with the motion to recommend
       approval of the zone change.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services
See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
   City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS


                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 3
