                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                    February 26, 2020


PLOTA20200047       The Provo City Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests an Ordinance Text
                    Amendment to the Professional Office (PO) Zone (Section 14.16.020) to allow private educational
                    services as a conditional use. Citywide application. Robert Mills rmills@provo.org (801) 852-6407
                    PLOTA20200047




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of :


                                     RECOMMEND APPROVAL
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application,
with a spelling correction.

Motion By: Andrew Howard
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Andrew Howard, Maria Winden, Lisa Jensen, and Laurie Urquiaga
Maria Winden was present as Acting Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following:

 -   This amendment would allow the private school in the existing office building on Quail Valley Drive to continue
     operating.
 -   This would allow other private schools, such as the University of Phoenix or Stevens Henager to operate in the
     Professional Office zone.
 -   Staff has developed a list of specific conditions that any private educational facility would need to adhere to.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• Multiple Neighborhood Chair(s) were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
   - Marian Monnahan, Edgemont Neighborhood Chair, addressed the Planning Commission to explain that she had
     been informed by the neighbors of concerns regarding the non-enforcement by the City of the covenants and
     restrictions associated with the Quail Valley Property. They had sent a letter to councilmembers directly.
   - Sharon Memmott, Neighborhood Vice Chair for Edgemont, expressed concerns about parking.
   - Becky Bogdin, Lakewood Neighborhood Chair, raised concerns about conditional use permits that run with the
     land and not with the applicant.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
No other members of the public spoke.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
- Commission members mentioned the compatibility of school uses with other conditional uses.
- Generally, commission members felt this was a favorable addition to the PO Zone.




     Planning Commission Chair




     Director of Community and Neighborhood Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
