                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     August 12, 2020


 ITEM 8        Alex Nodich requests Project Plan approval for a new airport terminal building, located at approximately 1300
               S Lakeview Parkway in the Planned Industrial Commercial (PIC) zone. Provo Bay Neighborhood. Aaron
               Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPPA20200200



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of August
12, 2020:


                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Laurie Urquiaga, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Brian Henrie,
Robert Knudsen, Deborah Jensen
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Staff gave an overview of the project as shown in the staff report.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following: None.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
    •    Alex Nordich gave a brief overview of the project and addressed wetland disturbance issues and that no mitigation
         is required due to the site plan design. He noted that the project aims to meet the airport needs of the present and
         the future.
    •    James Knight (architect) went through the design and capacity of the proposed project.
    •    Steve Gleason (airport manager) gave answers to the Commission regarding the lifespan of the project and the
         demand for growth.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Lisa Jensen inquired on the use of the building, the location, and the use of the existing terminal.
   • Daniel Gonzales asked the applicant how long the project would be able to serve Provo.
   • The Commission asked about specific design issues regarding plane loading and landscaping.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
