                                     Provo City Planning Commission
                                         Report of Action
                                                 September 14, 2022


Item 3         Colby Anderson requests Project Plan approval for a new warehouse building in the PIC (Planned
               Industrial Commercial) zone, located at 3752 S Sierra Vista Way. Spring Creek Neighborhood. Dustin
               Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLPPA20220202



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 14, 2022:


                              APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

Conditions of Approval:
  1. Remaining CRC items are addressed, and CRC approval is received.
  2. The subdivision plat is recorded that creates this new lot.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales, Raleen Wahlin, Andrew South
Daniel Gonzales was present acting as Chair.


On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission approved a subsequent motion that was made to allow staff to send
the remaining industrial buildings in the Mountain Vista area in the future to an Administrative Hearing instead
of to the Planning Commission.
Motion By: Daniel Gonzales
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Daniel Gonzales, Robert Knudsen, Melissa Kendall, Raleen Wahlin, Andrew South

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


RELATED ACTIONS
There is a plat application (PLFSUB20220148) to subdivide this property under review by the CRC.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
Warehouse/manufacturing use including Standard Land Use Code 6370

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
168 Total parking stalls
                                                      Page 1 of 2
STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• Public comment was opened at the hearing; there were no comments made.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• Remaining CRC comments have been addressed and waiting final approval.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• The remaining CRC items are being addressed and there are no significant concerns.
• The proposed elevations are typical to the surrounding development in the area.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                                        Page 2 of 2
