                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 12, 2022


ITEM #5*      The Development Services Department requests to amend Title 14 of the Provo City Code for all
              references of the sign code. Citywide application. Javin Weaver (801) 852-6413 jweaver@provo.org
              PLOTA20220287



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 12, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Raleen Wahlin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Andrew South, Daniel Gonzales, Raleen Wahlin, and Lisa Jensen
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A and Exhibit B.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
• Staff explained Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code discusses the sign code, however, 23 zone chapters also have
    language discussing sign code.
• This application solely shifts any reference of signs to all be included in Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code.
• Staff explained that this assigns sign code language to each zone so that the Planning Commission will not have to
    determine what the appropriate size code would be.
• Staff explained that approval of a sign will be by the issuance of a building permit


CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.


NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• Citywide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.
                                                       Page 1 of 27
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods
• No members of the public spoke on this item.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Lisa Jensen asked about when a sign permit is warranted or not.
• Andrew South said it would be positive to have this located in one location
• Lisa Jensen said it would be a positive to have a sign code assigned to each zone.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 West Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 27
EXHIBIT A

                                               Chapter 14.38
                              SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING

Sections:
  ...
  14.38.070           Signs Permitted – Agricultural (A1) and Residential (R, RA, RM and RC) Zones.
  ...
  14.38.090           Signs Permitted in Neighborhood Shopping Center (SC1) Zones and, Community
                      Shopping Center Zones (SC2), and Professional Office (PO) Zones.
  ...
  14.38.100    Signs Permitted in Industrial (M and FI) Zones.
  14.38.101           Signs Permitted in the Manufacturing Park (MP) Zone.
  14.38.102           Signs Permitted in the Planned Industrial Commercial (PIC) Zone.
  ...
  14.38.106           Signs Permitted in Mixed-Use (MU, NMU, and CMU) Zones
  ...




14.38.010
General Requirements.

The following general requirements shall apply to all signs and outdoor advertising structures which may be
erected or maintained within the City of Provo.

(1) Sign Approval. Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful and a class C misdemeanor to erect or
maintain any sign or outdoor advertising structure in the City of Provo without first obtaining a building permit
the approval of the Planning Commission for said sign or advertising structure, the giving of which shall be
based upon the provisions of this Title.

(2) Permits. The approval of the sign Planning Commission shall be evidenced by a permit issued by the
Building Inspection Division. All signs shall be constructed and all permits shall be issued in accordance with
the provisions of the International Building Code. Permits for off-premises nonconforming signs shall be
renewed on an annual basis. Applications for permits, or for the renewal of permits, shall require the applicant
to disclose the owner of the sign and the owner of the property on which the sign is or will be located, all
                                                 Page 3 of 27
relevant dates in regard to expiration of any lease or lease option, the date and cost of construction of the
sign, the date and cost of any modification of the sign, the fair market value as appraised for property tax
purposes, the date the sign will be depreciated for federal income tax purposes, the cost of operating the sign,
and any other information reasonably required by the Building Division Planning Commission. A permit may
be revoked and a sign removed pursuant to Subsection (7) of this Section if the applicant for a permit makes a
false or misleading statement in the permit application or renewal.

...

(7) Violations.

      (a) It is unlawful to erect or maintain a sign contrary to the provisions of this Chapter. If a sign is erected
      or maintained in violation of this Chapter the Building Division Planning Commission may do the
      following:

          (i) Order the defect corrected within a fixed period of time, not exceeding thirty (30) days, if
          correction of the defect will bring the subject sign into compliance with the provisions of this Chapter;
          but

          (ii) If correction of the defect will result in a violation of the provisions of this Chapter, order that the
          subject sign be removed by, and at the expense of, the owner of the sign, within a fixed period of time
          not exceeding thirty (30) days.

      (b) If the owner of the sign contests the order of the Building Division Planning Commission, the remedy
      shall be an appeal to the zoning Board of Adjustment, which appeal shall be taken in the time and manner
      otherwise provided in this Title for appeals to the zoning Board of Adjustment.

      (c) If the owner of the sign fails or refuses to remove the subject sign at the order of the Building Division
      Planning Commission, the City may remove the sign at any time after the owner thereof exhausts the
      owner’s administrative remedies in relation thereto, unless otherwise ordered by a court of law. Removal
      by the City shall be at the expense of the owner, and the City may obtain judgment against the owner in
      an amount equal thereto, together with reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.


...



14.38.070
Signs Permitted – Agricultural (A) and Residential (R) Zones.

                                                      Page 4 of 27
No sign shall be erected in any agricultural or any residential zones except as provided within the provisions of
the respective zoning districts as established in this Title, except that certain special purpose signs may be
erected in all zones in compliance with the provisions of Section 14.38.050, Provo City Code.

(1) Signs permitted in agriculture (A1) zone are as follows:
    (a) Signs or name plates not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and displaying only the name and
    address of the occupant.

    (b) One (1) unlighted sign not exceeding four (4) square feet in area to identify the premises as being
    associated with a trade organization, or as producing products under a trade name or symbol.

    (c) Two (2) signs advertising the sale of products lawfully produced on the premises, provided said signs
    do not exceed ten (10) square feet each.

    (d) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum area of six (6) square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease,
    or rent of the particular building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other.

    (e) Signs or monuments identifying points of interest or sites of historic significance for properties on the local
    or national historic register. Signs under two (2) square feet are permitted. Signs greater than two (2)
    square feet or monuments must receive Landmarks Commission approval for size and location.

(2) Signs permitted in residential (R) zones (excluding RM and RC zones) are as follows:
    (a) Signs or name plates not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and displaying only the name and
    address of the occupant.

    (b) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum area of six (6) square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease,
    or rent of the particular building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other.

    (c) Signs or monuments identifying points of historic significance for properties on the local or national historic
    register. Signs under two (2) square feet are permitted. Signs greater than two (2) square feet or
    monuments must receive Landmarks Commission approval for size and location.

(3) Signs permitted in Residential Manufactured Home Park Zone (RM) are as follows:

   (a) Each Manufactured Home Park shall have a bulletin for the listings of each manufactured home site
       and the name of the occupant thereof. Said bulletin board shall be located in close proximity to the
       office or administration building, and it shall be lighted at night. Adequate signs and markings shall be
       maintained to provide directions to parking areas, recreation areas, telephones, and laundry facilities.
       Each such directional sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet in area. Signs or name plates with a

                                                     Page 5 of 27
            maximum area of two (2) square feet in area displaying only the name and address of the occupant of
            the manufactured home may be erected for each subdivision parcel or manufactured home space.

      (4) Signs permitted in Residential Conservation Zone (RC) are as follows:
            (a) One (1) unlighted sign or name plate not exceeding twenty (20) square feet placed upon a building
            or an ornamental masonry wall which identifies the name and/or address of an apartment structure or
            complex, of a professional office complex, or of a mixed apartment/office complex.

            (b) One (1) sign or name plate not exceeding two (2) square feet which identifies the name and/or
            address of the occupant of each one-family dwelling, and/or the occupant of each individual office.

            (c) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum of six (6) square feet which identify the name and/or
            address of the occupant of each one-family dwelling, and/or the occupant of each individual office.

            (d) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum of six (6) square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease or
            rent of the particular building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other.

            (e) Signs or monuments identifying points of historic significance for properties on the local or national
            historic register. Signs under two (2) square feet are permitted. Signs greater than two (2) square feet or
            monuments must receive Landmarks Commission approval for size and location.

      ...



14.38.075
Signs Permitted in Public Facilities (PF) and Open Space, Preservation and
Recreation (OSPR) Zones.
...

(4) Freestanding Signs over Five (5) Feet in Height. On-premises freestanding signs over five (5) feet in height
shall be allowed only with the issuance of a conditional use permit by the Planning Commission, and subject to
the conditions established therein. Said sign shall not exceed a height of twenty-five (25) feet. This sign type is
excluded in the PFS zone.


      ...



14.38.080
                                                         Page 6 of 27
Signs Permitted in Commercial (C) Zones.
      ...

(2) Freestanding Signs Over Five (5) Feet in Height. On-premises freestanding signs over five (5) feet in height
shall comply with the following provisions:

      (a) Area. Refer to Section 14.38.130, Provo City Code.

      (b) Number. There may be one (1) such sign on each street frontage and one (1) additional sign for any
      portion of each such frontage in excess of two hundred (200) feet (except for FC1, FC2, and FC3 zones).
      The size of any such additional sign shall be determined from Section 14.38.130, Provo City Code, by
      counting as frontage that portion of each frontage which is in excess of two hundred (200) feet.

      (c) Height. No such sign shall exceed thirty-five (35) feet in height.

      (d) Projection. No such sign shall project over a property line, nor more than five (5) feet into any required
      front yard.

      ...


...



14.38.090
Signs Permitted in Neighborhood Shopping Center (SC1) Zones and Community
Shopping Center Zones (SC2), and Professional Office (PO) Zones.

In neighborhood shopping center zones (SC1) and community shopping center zones (SC2), there may be
permitted for each place of business or occupancy, wall signs or painted wall signs in accordance with the
following provisions. There may, in addition, be one (1) freestanding sign over five (5) feet in height for each
street frontage of the entire shopping center complex. Said sign shall conform with the following provisions:

(1) Freestanding Signs Over Five (5) Feet in Height. Each shopping center facility established under the
provisions of the respective shopping center zones may have therein freestanding signs over five (5) feet in
height, in accordance with the following provisions:

      (a) Area. The main portion of said freestanding sign which identifies the name of the shopping center
      shall be in accordance with the provisions of Section 14.38.130, Provo City Code. In addition thereto, there
      may be an area on said freestanding sign not to exceed one-half (1/2) of the area allowed by the above-
                                                  Page 7 of 27
    referenced section, which shall identify one (1) or more of the tenants or business establishments in said
    shopping center.

    (b) Number. There may, in each shopping center, be one (1) such sign for each frontage within the
    shopping center. There shall be no other freestanding sign along said frontage.

    (c) Height. No such freestanding sign shall exceed thirty-five (35) feet in height.

    (d) Projection. No such sign shall project over any property line nor more than five (5) feet into any
    required front yard.

(2) Wall Signs and Painted Wall Signs. Each business establishment or tenant of a shopping center facility may
have wall signs or painted wall signs in conformance with the following:

    (a) Area. Refer to Section 14.38.140, Provo City Code.

    (b) Number. There shall be one (1) such sign for the front face of each business or tenant. There may, in
    addition, be one (1) such sign for each business establishment or tenant having a rear building face with a
    public entrance.

    (c) Height. No part of any such sign shall extend above the top level of a wall upon or in front of which it is
    situated.

    (d) Projection. No such sign, including any light box or structural part, shall project more than eighteen
    (18) inches from the face of the part of the building to which it is attached. No copy is permitted on the
    sides of any such sign.

(3) Freestanding Signs Under Five (5) Feet. Freestanding signs under five (5) feet in height may be permitted on
an individual development pad as follows:

    (a) The maximum area of sign space shall be as described in Section 14.38.120, Provo City Code.

    (b) The maximum height for each freestanding sign under five (5) feet shall be five (5) feet.

    (c) All signs must be architecturally compatible using similar building materials and colors.

    (d) Each sign must be in conformance with the setback requirements of the zone.

    (e) Signs shall be designed with an opaque pedestal which conceals any pole support. The opaque
    pedestal shall extend the entire width and length of the sign, and there may not be any exposed space
    between the pedestal and the ground or landscaped area.

                                                   Page 8 of 27
14.38.095
Signs Permitted in Regional Shopping Center Zones (SC3).

In the regional shopping center zones, there may be for each place of business or occupancy, wall signs or
painted wall signs and freestanding signs over five (5) feet in height as follows:

(1) Freestanding Signs Over Five (5) Feet in Height. Each shopping center facility established in an SC3 zone may
have a freestanding sign over five (5) feet in height as follows:

    (a) The area of the sign shall be as described in Section 14.38.130, Provo City Code.

    (b) If the frontage of the shopping center facility is more than two hundred fifty (250) lineal feet (see
    Section 14.38.130, Provo City Code) the planning commission may approve a freestanding sign with a total
    area exceeding three hundred twenty (320) square feet. The actual size of the larger sign shall be
    determined by the Planning Commission based on the following:

         (i) The degree to which the signs and the landscaping thereof architecturally and aesthetically blend
         with the shopping center facility and the landscaping thereof.

         (ii) The volume and speed of travel of vehicular traffic moving past the shopping center facility.

         (iii) The total number of tenants and the number of major tenants in the shopping center facility.

         (iv) The area of the larger sign shall not be increased more than thirty-two (32) square feet (in excess
         of three hundred twenty (320) square feet) for each twenty-five (25) lineal feet of frontage (in excess
         of two hundred fifty (250) lineal feet).

         (v) No sign shall exceed seven hundred twenty (720) square feet of sign space. A second sign, not
         exceeding seven hundred twenty (720) square feet of sign space may be allowed if the shopping
         center facility has more than five hundred (500) lineal feet of frontage; provided, that no more than
         two (2) signs may be erected.

    (c) No freestanding sign shall exceed forty (40) feet in height.

    (d) Notwithstanding the above provisions, a shopping center facility that has more than one thousand
    eight hundred (1,800) linear feet of frontage directly adjacent to Interstate 15 shall be allowed one (1)
    freestanding sign that meets the following criteria:

         (i) Shall not exceed one thousand four hundred (1,400) square feet of sign space.


                                                    Page 9 of 27
        (ii) Shall not exceed ninety (90) feet in height.

        (iii) Shall be located adjacent to Interstate 15.

        (iv) Transition time between each message shall comply with the requirements of Chapter 6.06,
        Provo City Code.

    (e) Large-scale developments of at least fifty (50) acres or more having no direct vehicular access to an
    arterial street shall be entitled to two (2) additional freestanding, development entrance signs subject to
    the following standards:

       (i) Sign copy shall be limited to the name, logo, on-premises advertising, and address of the
       development;

       (ii) Sign location sign shall be limited to the immediate area where a secondary road connects to an
       arterial road whether on private or public property;

       (iii) A sign may be located in a landscaped or concrete median in City-owned right-of-way subject to (i)
       issuance of an encroachment permit and (ii) resolution of all sight safety issues;

       (iv) Sign size shall be limited to five hundred (500) square feet;

       (v) Sign height shall be limited to forty-five (45) feet; and

       (vi) No more than two (2) such signs shall be permitted.

       (vii)For the purpose of this Subsection the phrase “no direct vehicular access to an arterial street” shall
       mean a development project that:

               (1) has no drive entrances directly from an arterial into the development, (ii) has no frontage on
       an arterial road, or,

               (2) must be accessed from a secondary road.

(2) Wall Signs and Painted Wall Signs. Each business establishment or tenant of a shopping center facility may
have a wall sign or painted wall sign as follows:

    (a) A wall sign may not exceed fifteen percent (15%) of the total wall area in square feet.

    (b) There may be only one (1) sign for each face of a business.

    (c) No part of any sign shall extend above the top level of the wall upon or in front of which it is situated

                                                    Page 10 of 27
    except for wall signs for independent pads in the zone where no part of any such sign shall extend more
    than five (5) feet above the top level of the wall or roof. The projection of such sign shall project no more
    than five (5) feet from the face of the building to which it is attached.

(3) Freestanding Signs under Five (5) Feet. Freestanding signs under five (5) feet in height may be permitted on
an individual development pad as follows:

    (a) The maximum area of sign space shall be as described in Section 14.38.120, Provo City Code.

    (b) There may be one (1) freestanding sign under five (5) feet in height for each individual pad in the
    shopping center facility.

    (c) The maximum height for each freestanding sign under five (5) feet shall be five (5) feet.

    (d) All signs must be architecturally compatible using similar building materials and colors.

    (e) Each sign must be in conformance with the setback requirements of the zone.



14.38.100
Signs Permitted in Industrial (M and FI) Zones.
    ...



14.38.101
Signs Permitted in the Manufacturing Park (MP) Zone.

(1) Signs. Unless otherwise prohibited by law, signs of a type and description listed below, but no others, may
be placed and maintained on a parcel of property in the MP zone:

    (a) One (1) free standing monument identification sign shall be permitted per lot frontage on a public
    street. Such sign shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in area. The maximum height above street
    grade shall not exceed five (5) feet. Such sign shall be set back from the street right-of-way at least five (5)
    feet;

    (b) Two (2) signs for each building not exceeding two hundred (200) square feet each, which shall be
    mounted flat on the wall of the building to identify the occupant of the building or a product, trade name,
    or trade symbol associated with said occupant, and no other. These signs may be illuminated only by an
    indirect light source;
                                                   Page 11 of 27
    (c) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum of six (6) square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease, or
    rent of a particular building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other;

    (d) One (1) temporary sign not exceeding seventy-five (75) square feet which announces the construction
    of a new building. Said sign may contain the name of owners, tenants, architects, engineers, builders,
    tradesmen, and others associated with the construction and planning of said building. Said sign shall be
    located on the same premises as the new building which it announces.



14.38.102
Signs Permitted in the Planned Industrial Commercial (PIC) Zone.
(1) Wall signs:

    (a) Wall signs located within the Mountain Vista Business Park shall comply with the following
    requirements:

        (i) Each building may have two (2) wall signs per face. No building shall be deemed to have more
        than four (4) faces;

        (ii) The total square foot area of wall signs may not exceed fifteen (15) percent of the wall area;

        (iii) No part of any sign shall extend above the top level of the wall for the first story of the building;
        and

        (iv) The projection of such sign shall be no more than eighteen (18) inches from the face of the
        building to which it is attached;

    (b) Wall signs located in the PIC zone in areas other than the Mountain Vista Business Park shall comply
    with the following requirements:

        (i) There shall be one (1) such sign for each face of a building which faces onto a public street. In the
        case of multi-tenant buildings, there may be one (1) such sign for each tenant, or major division of a
        business which occupies a separate building;

        (ii) No part of any sign shall extend above the top level of a wall upon or in front of which it is
        situated; and

        (iii) Identification only of the name and/or identifying symbol of said tenant. Signs may be illuminated
        only by an indirect or internal light source;

                                                   Page 12 of 27
(2) Free-standing signs under five (5) feet:

    (a) One (1) such sign per frontage, plus one (1) additional sign for each two hundred (200) foot increment
    of frontage in excess of two hundred (200) feet. Said signs shall be placed no closer than fifty (50) feet
    apart;

    (b) In no case shall said sign exceed sixty (60) square feet in size; and

    (c) Said signs shall be mounted flush to the ground and not mounted on a pole. Signs may be placed on a
    berm, but in no case shall such signs exceed five (5) feet in height above the finished grade. Said signs
    must be located fifteen (15) feet from the property line in the front yard, and five (5) feet from the
    property line in side yard corner lots, and shall not be located in the clear vision area as defined by
    Section 14.34.100, Provo City Code;

(3) Temporary signs:

    (a) Two (2) temporary signs announcing the construction of a new building or pertaining to the sale,
    lease, or rent of a building or property. Said signs shall be located on the premises of the building, or
    upon the property for sale or lease; and

    (b) No sign shall be larger than one hundred (100) square feet per sign; and

(4) Retail commercial areas as designated on the Preliminary Project Plan:

    (a) Free-standing signs:

          (i) One (1) such sign per frontage of a lot or parcel of property, plus one (1) additional sign for each
          three hundred (300) foot increment of each frontage in excess of three hundred (300) feet;

          (ii) In no case shall such signs exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet in size;

          (iii) No free-standing signs shall be higher than twenty (20) feet;

          (iv) Said signs shall have a setback of fifteen (15) feet in the front yard, and five (5) feet in side yard
          corner lots, and shall not block the clear vision area; and

          (v) Said free-standing signs shall be architecturally integrated with the associated building or
          shopping center.


    ...


                                                     Page 13 of 27
14.38.106
Signs Permitted in Mixed-Use (MU, NMU, and CMU) Zones.

Signs within the Mixed-Use (MU), and Neighborhood Mixed-Use (NMU), and Campus Mixed-Use (CMU) zones
shall be regulated by the following provisions. Any signs, or types of sign, not expressly allowed by this section
are prohibited.


...


EXHIBIT B

14.08.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). Unless otherwise prohibited by law, signs of the type and description
listed below, but no others, may be placed and maintained in the A1 zone:

      (a) Signs or name plates not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and displaying only the name and
      address of the occupant.

      (b) One (1) unlighted sign not exceeding four (4) square feet in area to identify the premises as being
      associated with a trade organization, or as producing products under a trade name or symbol.

      (c) Two (2) signs advertising the sale of products lawfully produced on the premises, provided said signs
      do not exceed ten (10) square feet each.

      (d) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum area of six (6) square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease,
      or rent of the particular building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other.

      (e) Signs or monuments identifying points of interest or sites of historic significance. The size of said signs or
      monuments shall be specifically approved by the Planning Commission.

...

14.09.150
Other Requirements.
                                                       Page 14 of 27
(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). Unless otherwise prohibited by law, signs of the type and description
listed below, but no others, may be placed and maintained in the RA zone.

      (a) Signs or name plates not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and displaying only the name and
      address of the occupant.

      (b) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum area of six (6) square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease,
      or rent of the particular building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other.

      (c) Signs or monuments identifying points of interest or sites of historic significance. The size of said signs or
      monuments shall be specifically approved by the Planning Commission.

...


14.10.150

Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). Unless otherwise prohibited by law, signs of the type and description
listed below, but no others, may be placed and maintained in the R1 zone.

      (a) Signs or name plates not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and displaying only the name and
      address of the occupant.

      (b) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum area of six (6) square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease,
      or rent of the particular building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other.

      (c) Signs or monuments identifying points of interest or sites of historic significance. The site of said signs or
      monuments shall be specifically approved by the Planning Commission.

...

14.11.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). Unless otherwise prohibited by law, signs of the type and description
listed below, but no others, may be placed and maintained in the R2 zone:

      (a) One sign or name plate not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and displaying only the name and/or
      address of the occupant.
                                                       Page 15 of 27
      (b) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum area of six (6) square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease,
      or rent of the particular building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other.

      (c) Signs or monuments identifying points of interest or sites of historic significance. The size and location of
      said signs or monuments shall be specifically approved by the Planning Commission.

...

14.15.210
Signs.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). Each Manufactured Home Park shall have a bulletin for the listings of
each manufactured home site and the name of the occupant thereof. Said bulletin board shall be located in
close proximity to the office or administration building, and it shall be lighted at night. Adequate signs and
markings shall be maintained to provide directions to parking areas, recreation areas, telephones, and laundry
facilities. Street names shall be established and maintained within the Manufactured Home Park in the
manner approved by the Planning Commission. Each such directional sign shall not exceed six (6) square feet
in area. Signs or name plates with a maximum area of two (2) square feet in area displaying only the name
and address of the occupant of the manufactured home may be erected for each subdivision parcel or
manufactured home space. Signs which identify or advertise the Manufactured Home Park or mobile home
subdivision may be erected, if approved by the Planning Commission as part of its action on the preliminary
project plan.

...

14.16.160
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the PO zone shall be in conformance with the sign
provisions of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code, and shall be in general compliance with the typical signing
program described in the provisions of Section 14.16.140, Provo City Code. Signs proposed to be erected in
the PO zone shall be placed in the same classification with signs permitted in shopping center zones (Section
14.38.090, Provo City Code).

...


14.17A.140

                                                      Page 16 of 27
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). See standards and provisions of Section 14.38.075, Provo City Code,
Signs Permitted in Public Facilities (PF) Zones, except that the maximum height for monument signs shall be
five (5) feet.

...


14.18.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the SC1 zone shall be in conformance with the sign
provisions of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code, and shall be in general compliance with the typical signing
program approved by the Planning Commission under the provisions of Section 14.18.140, Provo City Code.

...


14.19.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the SC2 zone shall be in conformance with the sign
provision of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code, and shall be in general compliance with the typical sign program
approved by the Planning Commission under the provisions of Section 14.19.140, Provo City Code.

...


14.20.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the SC3 zone shall be in conformance with the sign
provisions of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code, and shall be in general compliance with the typical sign program
approved by the Planning Commission under the provisions of Section 14.20.140, Provo City Code. Large-scale
developments of at least fifty (50) acres or more having no direct vehicular access to an arterial street shall be
entitled to two (2) additional freestanding, development entrance signs subject to the following standards:

      (a) Sign copy shall be limited to the name, logo, on-premises advertising, and address of the
      development;


                                                   Page 17 of 27
      (b) Sign location sign shall be limited to the immediate area where a secondary road connects to an
      arterial road whether on private or public property;

      (c) A sign may be located in a landscaped or concrete median in City-owned right-of-way subject to (i)
      issuance of an encroachment permit and (ii) resolution of all sight safety issues;

      (d) Sign size shall be limited to five hundred (500) square feet;

      (e) Sign height shall be limited to forty-five (45) feet; and

      (f) No more than two (2) such signs shall be permitted.

For the purpose of this Subsection the phrase “no direct vehicular access to an arterial street” shall mean a
development project that (i) has no drive entrances directly from an arterial into the development, (ii) has no
frontage on an arterial road, or (iii) must be accessed from a secondary road.

...


14.20A.090
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the FC1 zone shall be in conformance with the
commercial sign provisions of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code. One freestanding sign over five (5) feet in height
is permitted per street frontage, subject to Section 14.38.080(2), Provo City Code.

...


14.20B.090
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the FC2 zone shall be in conformance with the
commercial sign provisions of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code. One freestanding sign over five (5) feet in height
is permitted per street frontage, subject to Section 14.38.080(2), Provo City Code.

...


14.20C.090
Other Requirements.


                                                     Page 18 of 27
(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the FC3 zone shall be in conformance with the
commercial sign provisions of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code. One freestanding sign over five (5) feet in height
is permitted per street frontage, subject to Section 14.38.080(2), Provo City Code.

...


14.22.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the CG zone shall be in conformance with the sign
provisions of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code.

...


14.23.160
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the ITOD zone shall be mounted flat against the face
of a building, marquee, or canopy and shall be in conformance with the sign provisions of Chapter 14.38,
Provo City Code. All signs shall be approved by the Planning Commission prior to the issuance of a sign permit.

...


14.24.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the CM zone shall be in conformance with the sign
provisions of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code.

...


14.25.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the CA zone shall be in conformance with the sign
provisions of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code and shall be in general compliance with a signing program
approved by the Planning Commission for each sign under the provisions of Section 14.25.140, Provo City
Code.
                                                  Page 19 of 27
...


14.26.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). Unless otherwise prohibited by law, signs of a type and description
listed below, but no others, may be placed and maintained on a parcel of property in the MP zone:

      (a) One (1) free standing monument identification sign shall be permitted per lot frontage on a public
      street. Such sign shall not exceed thirty-two (32) square feet in area. The maximum height above street
      grade shall not exceed five (5) feet. Such sign shall be set back from the street right-of-way at least five (5)
      feet;

      (b) Two (2) signs for each building not exceeding two hundred (200) square feet each, which shall be
      mounted flat on the wall of the building to identify the occupant of the building or a product, trade name,
      or trade symbol associated with said occupant, and no other. These signs may be illuminated only by an
      indirect light source;

      (c) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum of six (6) square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease, or
      rent of a particular building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other;

      (d) One (1) temporary sign not exceeding seventy-five (75) square feet which announces the construction
      of a new building. Said sign may contain the name of owners, tenants, architects, engineers, builders,
      tradesmen, and others associated with the construction and planning of said building. Said sign shall be
      located on the same premises as the new building which it announces; and

      (e) Signs and monuments identifying points of interest or sites of historic significance. The size and location of
      said signs or monuments shall be specifically approved by the Planning Commission.

...


14.27.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the M1 zone shall be in conformance with the sign
provisions of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code.

...


                                                      Page 20 of 27
14.27A.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). Each sign erected in the FI zone shall be in conformance with the sign
provisions of Section 14.38.100, Provo City Code.

...


14.28.150
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). All signs erected in the M2 zone shall be in conformance with the sign
provisions of Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code.

...


14.29.150
Other Requirements.

The following development standards shall apply to all development and land uses conducted in the PIC zone:

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). Unless otherwise prohibited by law, signs of a type and description
listed below, but no others, may be placed and maintained on a parcel of property in the PIC zone:

      (a) Office/business/research areas, manufacturing, heavy commercial, and public facilities areas, as
      designated on the preliminary project plan approved by the Planning Commission and Municipal Council
      as specified herein:

          (i) Wall signs:

              (A) Wall signs located within the Mountain Vista Business Park shall comply with the following
              requirements:

                   (1) Each building may have two (2) wall signs per face. No building shall be deemed to have
                   more than four (4) faces;

                   (2) The total square foot area of wall signs may not exceed fifteen (15) percent of the wall
                   area;

                   (3) No part of any sign shall extend above the top level of the wall for the first story of the
                                                    Page 21 of 27
         building; and

         (4) The projection of such sign shall be no more than eighteen (18) inches from the face of
         the building to which it is attached;

    (B) Wall signs located in the PIC zone in areas other than the Mountain Vista Business Park shall
    comply with the following requirements:

         (1) There shall be one (1) such sign for each face of a building which faces onto a public
         street. In the case of multi-tenant buildings, there may be one (1) such sign for each tenant,
         or major division of a business which occupies a separate building;

         (2) Sign area shall be governed by Figure 14.29.150(a) at the end of this Chapter;

         (3) No part of any sign shall extend above the top level of a wall upon or in front of which it
         is situated; and

         (4) Identification only of the name and/or identifying symbol of said tenant. Signs may be
         illuminated only by an indirect or internal light source;

(ii) Free-standing signs under five (5) feet:

    (A) One (1) such sign per frontage, plus one (1) additional sign for each two hundred (200) foot
    increment of frontage in excess of two hundred (200) feet. Said signs shall be placed no closer
    than fifty (50) feet apart;

    (B) Sign area shall be governed by Figure 14.29.150(b) at the end of this Chapter. In no case shall
    said sign exceed sixty (60) square feet in size; and

    (C) Said signs shall be mounted flush to the ground and not mounted on a pole. Signs may be
    placed on a berm, but in no case shall such signs exceed five (5) feet in height above the finished
    grade. Said signs must be located fifteen (15) feet from the property line in the front yard, and
    five (5) feet from the property line in side yard corner lots, and shall not be located in the clear
    vision area as defined by Section 14.34.100, Provo City Code;

(iii) Temporary signs:

    (A) Two (2) temporary signs announcing the construction of a new building or pertaining to the
    sale, lease, or rent of a building or property. Said signs shall be located on the premises of the
    building, or upon the property for sale or lease; and

                                           Page 22 of 27
             (B) No sign shall be larger than one hundred (100) square feet per sign; and

         (b) Retail commercial areas as designated on the Preliminary Project Plan:

             (i) Free-standing signs:

                 (A) One (1) such sign per frontage of a lot or parcel of property, plus one (1) additional sign
                 for each three hundred (300) foot increment of each frontage in excess of three hundred
                 (300) feet;

                 (B) Sign area shall be governed by Figure 14.29.150(c) at the end of this Chapter. In no case
                 shall such signs exceed one hundred fifty (150) square feet in size;

                 (C) No free-standing signs shall be higher than twenty (20) feet;

                 (D) Said signs shall have a setback of fifteen (15) feet in the front yard, and five (5) feet in
                 side yard corner lots, and shall not block the clear vision area; and

                 (E) Said free-standing signs shall be architecturally integrated with the associated building or
                 shopping center and shall be approved by the Planning Commission as part of the project
                 plan as provided in Section 14.29.140, Provo City Code;

             (ii) Wall signs: (Same as other areas except size - see Figure 14.29.150(a) at the end of this
             Chapter, Retail Commercial Areas); and

             (iii) Temporary Signs: Same as other areas.


14.29.160
Guarantees and Covenants.
   ...

                    Figure 14.29.150(a). Wall Signs and Painted Wall Signs in the PIC Zone.




                                                   Page 23 of 27
Figure 14.29.150(b). Freestanding Signs up to 5 Feet High in the PIC Zone.




                             Page 24 of 27
Figure 14.29.150(c). Freestanding Signs Over 5 Feet High in the PIC Zone.




                            Page 25 of 27
...


14.32.140
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (See 14.38 Provo City Code). Unless otherwise prohibited by law, signs of the type and description
listed below, and no others, may be placed and maintained in the RC zone:

                                                 Page 26 of 27
      (a) One (1) unlighted sign or name plate not exceeding twenty (20) square feet placed upon a building or
      an ornamental masonry wall which identifies the name and/or address of an apartment structure or
      complex, of a professional office complex, or of a mixed apartment/office complex.

      (b) One (1) sign or name plate not exceeding two (2) square feet which identifies the name and/or
      address of the occupant of each one-family dwelling, and/or the occupant of each individual office.

      (c) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum of six (6) square feet which identify the name and/or
      address of the occupant of each one-family dwelling, and/or the occupant of each individual office.

      (d) Two (2) temporary signs with a maximum of six (6) square feet each, pertaining to the sale, lease or
      rent of the particular building, property, or premises upon which displayed, and no other.

(e) Signs or monuments identifying points of interest or sites of historic significance. The size and location of said
of signs or monuments shall be specifically approved by the Planning Commission.

...




                                                     Page 27 of 27
