                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    February 22, 2023


 ITEM #2     Dudley & Associates request Concept Plan approval for 225,000 square feet of phased office space in a
             proposed PO (Professional Office) zone, located approximately at 5515 N Edgewood Dr. Riverbottoms
             Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20220015


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 22, 2023:

                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, subject to the property being rezoned
 to the PO zone.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Raleen Wahlin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew South, Raleen Wahlin, Daniel Gonzales, Robert Knudsen, Jeff Whitlock
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The related Rezone (PLRZ20220005) was recommended for approval and the related Conditional Use Permit
 (PLCUP20220032) was approved at the February 22, 2023 Planning Commission hearing.

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • May apply with future approvals.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 02/03/2022.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were not present or did not address the Planning Commission.

                                                        Page 1 of 2
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jason White gave an overview of the vision for the project area and noted that the phases will be several years
       apart.
   • Jamie Chapman shared multiple renderings for the project and detailed the architecture for the proposal.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Daniel Gonzales inquired of staff how the adjacent building heights of existing structures compared with the
       proposal.
   • Robert Knudsen confirmed with staff that the residential home to the south of the proposal was staying and would
       still have access to 5600 North and 5200 North.
   • The Commission commented on the history and context of the proposals and that there were not any concerns
       with these latest submissions.
   • The Commission discussed the height of the buildings, relating that the location is a good fit without a lot of
       residential nearby to affected and that the landscaping against University Avenue will help to buffer the buildings.
       They also complimented the architecture as interesting and a good variety, stating that the plans offer quality
       offices that may keep new businesses in Provo.
   • Andrew South confirmed with staff that no precedent is being established in the area, as adjacent sites are in
       different zones and have different rules for height.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS

                                                       Page 2 of 2
