                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 24, 2021


 ITEM 2       Mykel Davis requests Minor Project Plan approval for expansion of the BYU Football Stadium
              scoreboard in the Public Facilities (PF) zone. University Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404
              aardmore@provo.org PLMPPA202120067



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
24, 2021:


                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Dave Anderson, Laurie Urquiaga, Brian Henrie, Daniel Gonzales
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was present and addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:


                                                        Page 1 of 2
    •   Paul Evans shared a map with the Planning Commission detailing concerns about light and sound pollution to the
        Pleasant View neighborhood.
    •   Jared, another Pleasant View resident, stated he has no concerns with the stadium scoreboard expansion and is
        excited for the upgrades.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Chris Bauer and Mykel Davis identified concerns raised and addressed them. The north scoreboard is not
       expanding in size, but the south scoreboard is going from a 63’x55’ board to a 131’x83’ board. However, the new
       technology will not increase light pollution to the surrounding area.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Lisa Jensen pointed to the email received by a resident of the Pleasant View neighborhood and wanted to confirm
       with the applicant that no additional light pollution would result from the expansion. She noted that the applicant
       has met the code conditions for the scoreboard.
   • Laurie Urquiaga asked what the size difference is with the expansion and asked about light adjustments with the
       new scoreboard.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
