                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     August 25, 2021


 ITEM 1       Dudley and Associates request Project Plan approval for office/warehouse space located at 1374 W 200 N
              in the Light Manufacturing (M1) zone. Dixon Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408
              jblarsen@provo.org PLPPA20200428


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of August
25, 2021:

                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Abstained: Brian Henrie (he noted a conflict of interest with this item)
Votes in Favor of Motion: Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, and Robert
Knudsen

Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •   Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 The Coordinators Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
A neighborhood meeting is not required for this item.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
Sam Oman, resident of the Maeser Neighborhood, called this an “ideal M-1 development.” He commended the applicants
for putting up masonry walls because they are a good benefit to neighbors. The applicants would gain some space if they
had a one-way driveway and angled parking. The parking is a little tight.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicants’ presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:


                                                        Page 1 of 2
   •   The applicants have a good relationship with the townhome complex to the east. They expressed a willingness to
       work with them on issues of trees and walls. The eastern vinyl fence (separating the applicants’ property with the
       adjacent townhome complex) will be replaced by a masonry wall that the applicants will construct).
   •   The applicants explained they worked with staff to resolve conflicts with parking requirements. Keeping the
       parking area large will be important to accommodate potential construction company owner tenants.
   •   Increasing the number of tree diamonds is a concern to the applicants because it would complicate the parking lot
       for future tenants.
   •   Citing desire to keep cash-flows up, the applicants were resistant to reducing the size of the east and west,
       proposed, flex space units—to open more land up for parking and landscaping on the east of the building.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission expressed that the proposed use is a good one for the subject property.
   • Commissioner Gonzalez applauded the applicants for the aesthetically pleasing design of the project, especially
       considering proximity to residential zones.
   • There was concern expressed about the lack of landscaping, especially trees, in the parking lot and on the eastern
       boundary of the project.
   • Support for a one-way driveway was voiced by Commissioner Jensen.
   • Commissioner Jensen moved that the Planning Commission approve the proposed project plan with the following
       condition:
            o That the applicants replace the smaller tree with a larger tree—on the more central portion of the eastern
                boundary, or add one additional smaller tree along the eastern boundary. The motion passed, 6-0.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS



                                                       Page 2 of 2
