                                Provo City Planning Commission
                                     Report of Action
                                             February 26, 2020

Item 5          The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests various Code Amendments to Titles
                14 and 15 to allow for permeable driveways and parking lot surfaces. Citywide application. Austin
                Taylor (801) 852-6423 ataylor@provo.org PLOTA20190411




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 26, 2020


                                RECOMMEND APPROVAL
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application

Motion by: Andrew Howard
Second by: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Maria Winden, Robert Knudsen, Andrew Howard
Maria Winden was present as acting Chair.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission
include the following.

- Pervious pavement options are not provided in the current City Code; however, there are options available that
    would allow better storm water infiltration.
- By creating specific standards for gravel, pavers, and other pervious pavement options we increase the options
    available to developers and residents.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• Multiple Neighborhood Chair(s) were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
None

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Robert Knudsen pointed out that he has seen the water table retreat because his West Provo wells are going dry and
the water table used to be almost at ground level. Andrew Howard liked that it offers flexibility. Lisa Jensen
expressed worries that people walking on sidewalks will trip on gravel that could come onto the sidewalk from the
driveway.
  Planning Commission Chair




  Director of Community and Neighborhood Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to
    the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this
    item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of
    Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).
           BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
