                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    January 26, 2022


ITEM #2        Andy Jones requests Concept Plan approval for a four-lot subdivision in a proposed R1.8 (One-Family
               Residential) zone, located at approximately 669 South 1600 West. Sunset Neighborhood. Aaron
               Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20210386



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
January 26, 2022:


                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Ally Jones
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Brian Henrie, Miles Miller, Daniel
Gonzales
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission recommended approval to the City Council for the related rezone with this request (Item #3).

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
 4 Total Units
 Type of occupancy approved: Family
 Standard Land Use Code: 1111

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.




                                                        Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were not present or did not address the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
  • Andy Jones spoke to the development and how it will help meet the goals for that area of the City.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission asked staff and the applicant about the frontage of the four lots and which direction
       the homes would face.
   • Lisa Jensen asked about the future street network for the area and plans for the adjacent properties.
   • The Commission determined that the plan is consistent with the General Plan.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
