                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    February 10, 2021


 ITEM 4       Zachary Steele requests Concept Plan approval for a residential subdivision, located at 1400 W 890 S in a
              proposed RA(A) zone. Sunset Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
              PLCP20200414



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 10, 2021:


                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Deborah Jensen
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Deborah Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Ally Jones, Lisa Jensen,
Russ Phillips, Robert Knudsen, Brian Henrie
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also forwarded a positive recommendation to City Council for the related zone change, Item
 5 at the February 10th hearing.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting will be held on February 11th.




                                                        Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Mr. Steele addressed the Planning Commission and noted that they have no intent to sell these lots, but that they
       will provide additional half-acre lots for family members as needed.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Planning Commission members asked staff details regarding the street frontage and accessory apartment overlay.
   • Commission members were happy with the concept plan and zone change and hoped that the area will develop
       as shown on the vicinity plan. Specifically, the Commission appreciated the diversity of housing the request would
       provide and the street and block pattern shown.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
