                                     Provo City Planning Commission
                                         Report of Action
                                                  October 28, 2020


*Item 3        Mike and Lauri Clark request an Ordinance Text amendment to Section 14.50(20).150 to increase the
               permissible lot coverage from 30% to 35%. Maeser Neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801) 854-6414
               dwright@provo.org PLOTA20200318




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 28, 2020:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted
 application with a recommendation.

 Recommendation: Increase the lot coverage to 40% instead of the 35% being requested.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga, Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Brian Henrie, Dave Anderson,
Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales.
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •   Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
     changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and
     determination.


RELATED ACTIONS
 This application was continued from the October 14, 2020 Planning Commission (Item 6).


TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations.




                                                      Page 1 of 3
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• No comment came from the public.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• 40% would be fine, but only 35% is needed.
• The architect was able to design a home that would fit on the lot, but to be more functional and meet building
   requirements there is a need to increase this to 35%.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• The setbacks for single-family homes in this zone were discussed.
• Most of the other residential zones that allow for 40% lot coverage. Having this same number for this zone would
   help with consistency.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
To allow the zone to be more consistent with the other single-family zones, the Planning Commission wanted the lot
coverage to be 40% instead of the request 35%. Their recommendation to the Council is for approval and that the
Council consider changing it to 40%.




               Planning Commission Chair




            Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff
    Report to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the
    decision of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted
    in this Report of Action.


                                                     Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a
   public hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following
   a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by
   submitting an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and
   Neighborhood Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the
   Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

               BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                    Page 3 of 3
