                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      June 22, 2022


ITEM #1         Planning Commission review and classification of a sign per Section 14.38.110, Provo City Code, for an
apartment building in the CMU (Campus Mixed Use) zone, located at 1902 N Canyon Road. Pleasant View
Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of June
22, 2022:


                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

 Conditions:
 1. That Section 14.38.085, North University Avenue Riverbottoms Design Corridor and Specialty Support Commercial
    (SSC) Sign Standards, be applied to the sign permit.
 2. That the size of the sign be no larger than eighty-seven (87) square feet.
 3. That the brightness of the sign does not exceed the Nits of a street light.

Motion By: Miles Miller
Second By: Dave Anderson
Votes in Favor of Motion: Miles Miller, Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Dave Anderson,
Melissa Kendall, Brian Henrie
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
    • Staff responded to questions from the Planning Commission regarding sign location, size, brightness, what other
        sign classifications would permit, and what drove staff to the recommendation in the staff report.
    • Due to concerns with the staff recommended Downtown Sign Standards, staff suggested that the North University
        Avenue Riverbottoms Sign Standards with additional conditions for size and brightness of the sign could be a
        possible solution.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
                                                    Page 1 of 3
    •   There were several written comments received from the public, including the Pleasant View neighborhood chair,
        subsequent to the Staff Report and prior to the hearing. Concerns raised in these written comments included sign
        size, light pollution, degradation of the neighborhood feel, and adverse impacts on neighboring properties.
    •   The neighborhood chair, Paul Evans, addressed the Planning Commission and restated his concerns from his
        correspondence that the sign should not be allowed. He gave some history on the apartment building original
        approval in 2019, stated concerns for the sign being incongruent with the neighborhood, and felt the staff
        justifications for the recommendation were inappropriate. He suggested the RC zone and requested the PC rescind
        the sign permit and follow up on other issues with the building.
    •   Eleven (11) other residents addressed the Planning Commission and shared concerns about the proposed sign
        size, brightness, downtown sign standard classification, and the negative impacts on the neighborhood.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant’s presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • David Hunter, the developer for the building, addressed the Planning Commission and stated his past
       compromises with the building and attempts to file for a building permit for the sign. He also noted that the
       previous building on the location had two large lighted signs, and that the proposed sign faces an alleyway
       between the condos and a church building to the west. He indicated that the process was followed for the sign and
       that the sign has been manufactured. He committed to hold down the brightness of the sign to a warm glow,
       nothing above a street light.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission discussed what would constitute a nuisance with the sign and different light allowances
       the city code allows for.
   • North University Sign Standards were discussed on what allowance that would give to the proposed sign.
   • Planning Commission confirmed with staff that this type of review is case by case and determined by similar
       characteristic and use. The Planning Commission responsibilities and limits of review were also discussed.
   • The Planning Commission addressed the staff error with the initial review of the permit and clarified with the
       applicant and staff on the proposed sign location.
   • Discussion on what zone matches the best to the CMU zone and the existing building led to the Planning
       Commission determining that the size of the sign is not an issue, but brightness should be addressed.
   • The Planning Commission discussed the accommodations the developer has made in the past and has offered
       with the sign brightness. They concluded that if the brightness is held down that there isn’t any adverse impact
       on the neighborhood with the proposed sign. No public from the west addressed the Commission, and those would
       be the most impacted by the proposed sign.
   • The size of the sign, what the sign is facing to the west, and the limit for the brightness don’t present any concerns
       for the Planning Commission.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
That the North University Riverbottoms Design Corridor and Specialty Support Commercial (SSC) Sign Standards,
Section 14.38.085, are more similar in use and characteristics to the building and use for the sign permit submittal.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

                                                       Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
