                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   December 08, 2021


 *ITEM 1       Matthew Griffiths requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Title 15, to add a new chapter establishing
               policies and procedures for the dedication of private streets and utilities. City-wide application. Aaron
               Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20210360



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
December 08, 2021:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Ally Jones
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga, Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen,
Dave Anderson, Peter Fife, Miles Miller
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
                                                        Page 1 of 2
    •   Mrs. Hatfield stated her support for the intent of the ordinance but is not in favor of the current version and would
        like to see some changes in the text.
    •   Ms. Gibbons stated her support for the Quail Valley HOA to be able to have their roads and utilities be public.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Provo staff clarified that Quail Valley HOA was the start of the proposed ordinance, but the language was written
       in a way that it will be able to apply to any future request.
   • Staff believes that the language gives the right amount of discretion to staff to use current City standards and staff
       judgement in determining that best choice for the City.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission asked staff about the ability to take aged infrastructure and what the costs to the City
       would be. They wanted to ensure that the City would not have the burden of up-front costs when roads or
       infrastructure go from private to public. They determined that if the Public Works and Legal staff are confident
       in the language, then they support it.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                        Page 2 of 2
