                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    August 14, 2024


    ITEM #3       David Cabanilla requests Project Plan approval for a new six-story, 86-unit apartment building in
                  the DT1 (General Downtown) Zone, located at 88 West 500 North. North Park Neighborhood.
                  Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLPPA20230321

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
August 14, 2024:


                               APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

Conditions of Approval:
    1. A final subdivision plat is approved and recorded.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Barbara DeSoto
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Barbara DeSoto, Melissa Kendall, Adam Shin, Daniel Gonzales, Jonathon Hill
Jonathon Hill was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*83 Total Units
*Type of occupancy approved: Family
*Standard Land Use Code 1150

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*143 Total parking stalls required
*148 Total parking stalls provided

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff noted that the total number of units is 83 and not the original 86 units mentioned in the item
language.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood District Chair.



                                                        Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• No public comments were made.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The property owner tried to purchase the home to the north of this property, but was unsuccessful.
• The market study calls for mostly one-bedroom units. These units also have the best parking requirements which
   helps make the project more financially feasible.
• The parking will be located underground and behind the building. This will help with the aesthetic of the development.
• The business center will be for the leasing office and for the tenants to use rooms and computers for their personal
   needs.
• The units will be for rent.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• This development is very close to the neighboring single family home. Staff explained that this adjacent home is in
   the DT1 zone and is not subject to any transitional standards like the other property that is in the RC zone adjacent to
   the project.
• This type of project will be good for the downtown area and is close to the library and UVX.
• The project will have the bike parking requirements met in addition to the vehicular parking requirements.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS



                                                       Page 2 of 2
