                                        Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     January 12, 2022


 *ITEM 2        Chris and Karen Knuttgen request a Zone Change from Residential Conservation (RC) to Low Density
                Residential (LDR) to allow for four (4) townhome units located at 152 E 500 S. Maeser Neighborhood.
                Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20180057.


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of January
12, 2022:


                                     RECOMMENDED DENIAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council deny the above noted application.

Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Brian Henrie
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen, Miles Miller, Laurie Urquiaga, Peter Fife, Lisa
Jensen, Daniel Gonzales

Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
The property to be rezoned to the LDR Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission denied the associated Project Plan (Item #1 on the agenda).

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • Important issues raised by City departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.


                                                        Page 1 of 3
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Sam Oman stated his concerns regarding space for garbage storage, parking and access issues, possible sewer
        pump issues, and a lack of open space for the future residents of the building.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Greg Cronin and Chris Knuttgen addressed the Planning Commission to respond to concerns. They feel that the
       project meets standards and will provide needed residences for people in Provo. They stated their intent to sell
       the units individually, and that development costs are the main reason to try for four units.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Laurie Urquiaga confirmed the size of the lot with staff to ensure it met code.
   • Lisa Jensen summarized the issues from the last hearing and which concerns were still not met. There was some
       discussion on what changes had been made since the previous hearing.
   • Dave Anderson shared his view of the project, insisting that three units would be better. He believes the project
       as shown is not very livable with no common areas on the site and still has concerns.
   • Peter Fife inquired of the applicant on their plans to rent or sell the units and why they insisted on four.
   • Robert Knudsen asked for more information on surrounding uses and whether they would pose any issues for the
       proposed project.
   • The Planning Commission shared concerns that had not been addressed since the previous hearing regarding
       livability, a lack of open spaces, and trying to fit too much on the site.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS



                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A

COM. 163 FT W OF NE COR OF BLK 3, PLAT B, PROVO CITY SURVEY; W 74.5 FT; S 232 FT; E 74.5 FT; N 232 FT TO BEG.




                                                   Page 3 of 3
