                                  Provo City Planning Commission
                                       Report of Action
                                               August 12, 2020

Item 2* Jeffrey Rands requests Ordinance Text Amendments to the Low Density Residential (LDR) and
        Very Low Density Residential (VLDR) zones to reduce the minimum lot depth from 90 feet to
        75 feet. Citywide Impact. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org
        PLOTA20200208


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting
of August 12, 2020:

                          RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Brian Henrie, Dave
Anderson, Robert Knudsen; Deborah Jensen did not vote

Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission
included the following: The applicant proposes a text amendment to facilitate his concept plan (reduce the
minimum lot depth in the LDR and VLDR zones from 90 feet to 75 feet). The lots proposed in his concept plan
do not meet the minimum lot depth requirement of the VLDR Zone. Staff presented alternative language at the
meeting that was proposed by the City Attorney’s Office.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
  • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • Staff is not aware of public comment on this item.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission recommended approval of this item—specifically the language proposed by
      the City Attorney’s Office, as presented at the meeting and attached herein as Attachments “A” and “B.”
      They noted other requirements in the LDR and VLDR Zone they would like considered for amendment,
      such as the minimum lot area. The Planning Commission even mentioned the idea of eliminating the lot
      depth requirement and reducing some setback requirements. They also questioned whether some of the
      Lot Standards in the LDR and VLDR should be varied from one another.
             Planning Commission Chair




          Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the
Staff Report to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the
record of the decision of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff,
those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following
a public hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council
following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed
by submitting an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the
Development Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of
the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m.).

           BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS



   Attachment “A”: Reduction to Minimum Lot Depth Requirement for the LDR Zone—Language
                          Recommended by the Planning Commission


  Attachment “B”: Reduction to Minimum Lot Depth Requirement for the VLDR Zone—Language
                          Recommended by the Planning Commission
Attachment “A”: Reduction to Minimum Lot Depth Requirement for the LDR Zone—Language
                       Recommended by the Planning Commission
Attachment “B”: Reduction to Minimum Lot Depth Requirement for the VLDR Zone—Language
                        Recommended by the Planning Commission
