                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      April 28, 2021


 ITEM 2        Shawn Poor, on behalf of Brighton Development, requests Project Plan approval for 173 condo units
               located at approximately 2300 N University Pkwy in the ITOD zone. Carterville Neighborhood. Aaron
               Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPPA20200434



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of April
28, 2021:


                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
     1. That all remaining CRC comments are resolved prior to Building Permit approval.
     2. That the developer address maximum percentage of rental units between 25%-50% in CC&Rs.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Deborah Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Deborah Jensen, Dave Anderson, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga,
Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
173 Total Units

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
318 Total parking stalls required.
419 Total parking stalls provided.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.




                                                        Page 1 of 3
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: No public comments were made during the hearing.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Shawn Poor gave an overview of the variety of the buildings of this proposal and how they connect to the overall
       Mix project. In response to questions from the Planning Commission, Mr. Poor stated the there will be a set of
       CC&Rs that will typically address a percentage of maximum rental units. He also noted in response to the
       Commission that the east fence will be open but that the north wall will remain.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Deborah Jensen noted that she enjoys having the CRC reports as part of the staff report.
   • Brian Henrie asked about the fencing around the development and the central condo units design.
   • Deborah Jensen appreciated the site plan designs, specifically the orientation towards the river and the thru-ways
       for pedestrian traffic.
   • Ally Jones stated she likes the project overall but would like to see more open green space for recreation.
   • Dave Anderson started a discussion regarding percentage of owner-occupied units in the condos and if that can
       be addressed through CC&R’s.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.




                                                      Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
