                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 22, 2023

 *ITEM 6     Janet Dolan requests approval of a Zone Map Amendment from the CM (Heavy Commercial) zone to the
             R1.8 (One Family Residential) zone for a portion of residential property in order to complete a lot line
             adjustment, located at 737 S State Street. Provost neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404
             aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20230019


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
22, 2023:

                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Melissa Kendall
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Melissa Kendall, Lisa Jensen, Raleen Wahlin, Jeff Whitlock
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the R1.8 Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 02/09/2023.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
     • Katherine Hall stated support from the neighborhood district via an email.
     • Jenny Peterson stated her support for the request.



                                                        Page 1 of 3
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Janet Dolen gave an overview of the history for the properties and the reasons for the request.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission confirmed with staff that the residential lot would not be able to be subdivided due to lot
       standards; they also confirmed that the setbacks would not cause any issues.
   • The Commission appreciated the request and noted that it will set clear boundaries between the residential and
       commercial areas.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
   City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 3
