                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 28, 2020


 *ITEM 4      Ryan Livingston requests a Zone Change from R1.10 to Low Density Residential (LDR) for
              approximately 1.7 acres, located at 1320 S 1080 E to accommodate single-family and twin homes. Spring
              Creek Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20200319



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 28, 2020:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Deborah Jensen
Second By: Brian Henrie
Votes in Favor of Motion: Deborah Jensen, Brian Henrie, Lisa Jensen, Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson,
Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the LDR Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
18 Total Units

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff gave an overview of the staff report highlighting the updated drawings and elevations.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 10/03/2020.




                                                         Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was present and addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.
    • Mary Millar stated there were no negative comments at the neighborhood meeting for this application and that
        she welcomes the proposed project.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Mr. Livingston highlighted the changes and addressed a “front-porch focus” for the development.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission had a brief discussion about the house types and making them work on the site. Overall,
       they like the proposed development with the zone change, noting it will be a great addition to the area.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
