                                        Provo City Planning Commission
                                             Report of Action
                                                    September 27, 2023

 *ITEM 1      Development Services requests Ordinance Text Amendments to Chapter 15.20.060 Design Standards.
              Citywide Application. Hannah Salzl (801) 852-6423 hsalzl@provo.org PLOTA20230206

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of September
27, 2023:
                                                   CONTINUED
On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.
Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Raleen Wahlin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Raleen Wahlin, Lisa Jensen, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Jonathon Hill,
Melissa Kendall, Andrew South, Barbie DeSoto.
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.
 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.
TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.
STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • Citywide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • This item was Citywide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
 • One member of the public commented. They expressed the opinion that the proposed amendment seemed overly
    broad. They have neighbors with artificial turf and have not seen a problem.
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
 • Jeff Whitlock thought the proposed amendment was overly broad and infringed on personal property rights.
 • Lisa Jensen suggested that artificial turf should be permitted to make up the up to 60% of non-vegetative coverage
     permitted in landscaping. She also expressed the concern about the imbalance that the proposed amendment permits
     artificial turf in large athletic fields but prohibits it in small residential patches, which would be less environmentally
     harmful than the field. Would prohibiting the small patches be enough to make a measurable difference?
 • Raleen Wahlin said that her home has artificial turf. They have not had a problem with heat. The only problem is
     small pieces of bushes get stuck into the artificial turf.
 • Melissa Kendall agreed with Lisa Jensen. She also expressed that artificial turf could be a good solution for places
     where other plants could not grow.
 • Andrew South said that he had done some research and thought that artificial turf was environmentally harmful,
     despite the aesthetic benefits. He expressed that if the City has tried it for four years and it has not been beneficial,
     then perhaps the prohibition should be considered.
 • Barbie DeSoto agreed with Andrew South and added that she agrees with the proposed amendment because of the
     negative effects of artificial turf on native flora and fauna.
                                                          Page 1 of 3
 •   Jeff Whitlock said that some new versions of turf are marketed as non-toxic, and the technology is catching up with
     the problem. The largest concern is those who have old artificial turf, not those installing new, better versions.
 •   Dan Gonzales agreed with Lisa Jensen and wondered what other alternatives could be considered. They both agreed
     with removing artificial turf from (6)(a) which counted it toward vegetative coverage.
 •   Jonathon Hill suggested limiting it further if it were permitted, maybe to 40% coverage.
 •   Jeff Whitlock suggested adding restrictions like prohibiting low-quality types with greater pollution shedding and
     requiring certain installation standards for drainage, which are currently in code.
 •   Dan Gonzales asked staff to address installation and enforcement. The responses are summarized below:
     • Despite the installation standards in code, most artificial turf has not been installed correctly. The City does not
          require a permit for installation and staff are not trained in how to recognize incorrect installations, so there is
          no means of enforcing the standards.
     • Development Services, Public Works, Parks and Recreation, and Energy unanimously recommended the
          amendment. When asked about other alternatives or compromises, the departments’ recommendation was not to
          consider other alternatives and to simply prohibit it.
     • Public Works said that it had not had the desired effect on water use. The Stormwater Division also expressed
          concern about microplastics and the lack of permeability in incorrectly installed turf.
     • Parks’ primary concern was the heat and how that affected people and animals who used the artificial turf.
     • Energy, especially the Forestry Division, had seen increased tree damage and death due to the heat islands,
          especially in parkstrips. They shared Public Works’ concern about the lack of permeability.
 •   Lisa Jensen suggested that the Planning Commission request staff to return with a new proposal that treated artificial
     turf like other non-vegetative ground covers and found a middle ground between the benefits of artificial turf and its
     negative environmental impacts.
 •   Jonathon Hill requested more data about recorded negative effects on tree health within Provo. He also suggested
     reconsidering the allowance for athletic fields.
 •   Jeff Whitlock and Dan Gonzales noted that artificial turf has been used well on rooftop gardens and dining patios,
     and so staff should also consider that in the revision.
 •   Lisa Jensen and Dan Gonzales asked staff to revise the proposed amendment and consider the following:
     • Addressing artificial turf like other non-vegetative ground coverage and considering a percent limit,
     • Installation standards,
     • And a provision for areas that would not allow for other plants.
 •   Jonathon Hill also asked for more information from the four departments recommending the prohibition, especially
     if they agree that allowing artificial turf in small areas would still create problems.



                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services
See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to
    the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this
    item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
   application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W Center St.,
   Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are
   Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).
                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS


                                                         Page 2 of 3
                                              EXHIBIT A

15.20.060 Design Standards.

…

(6) Xeric landscaping and water wise landscaping is encouraged in all yards if the landscaping plan for yards
adjacent to a street meets the following criteria:

       (a) Living vegetation including turf grass, shrubs, perennials, or ornamental grasses or artificial turf
       grass shall cover a minimum of forty percent (40%) of the unbuilt surface area within three (3) years of
       planting. Tree canopy and weeds may not count toward this percentage;

       (b) The remaining unbuilt area not covered by living vegetation or artificial turf grass shall be covered
       by bark or wood mulch, decorative rock, hardscape or any combination of these materials. Living plants
       should be grouped aesthetically throughout the yard;

       (c) Living plants in the parkway area shall not be included in the minimum coverage requirement.
       Landscaping requirements for parkways shall be followed as defined in Section 15.20.120, Provo City
       Code.

       (d) Artificial turf grass is prohibited except in athletic fields and public recreation spaces. may be used
       in landscaping so long as it meets the following requirements:

              (i) Artificial turf grass in yards adjacent to a street must have a blade length between two (2)
              inches and three (3) inches, have a natural green color, and be water permeable;

              (ii) Artificial turf grass must be installed on top of a minimum of three (3) inches of sand, rocks,
              gravel, or similar product for drainage. Rocks, gravel or similar products shall range in size from
              three-eighths (3/8) inch to three-fourths (3/4) inch;

              (iii) Artificial turf grass used for landscaping may not include rubber infill in a yard adjacent to a
              public street;

              (iv) Outdoor green carpet shall not be used in landscaping;

              (v) Upon request, specifications for installed artificial turf grass shall be provided to the
              Development Services Department.

       (e) Outdoor carpet shall not be used in landscaping.




                                                    Page 3 of 3
