                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                       July 28, 2021


Item 1 Community and Neighborhood Services requests a General Plan Amendment to clarify the existing Westside
Development Policies and Future Land Use Map with a Southwest Plan Intent Statement. Citywide. Hannah Salzl (801) 852-
6423 hsalzl@provo.org PLGPA20210242

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of July
28, 2021:


                                        RECOMMEND DENIAL
 On a vote of 6:1, the Planning Commission recommended the Municipal Council deny the above general plan amendment
 and recommended that the City consider applying the policies of the Intent Statement citywide with language and example
 artwork more suited to Provo.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Dan Gonzales, Ally Jones, David Knudsen, and Laurie Urquiaga
Votes Opposed to the Motion: Brian Henrie
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 STAFF/APPLICANT PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following:
    • A Southwest Plan Intent Statement was proposed to supplement the Westside Development Policies and Southwest
        Area Future Land Use Map.
   •   The Intent Statement would change the maximum density limit on the westside from four units per acre net to four
       units per acre gross.
   •   The Intent Statement would strongly encourage more granular integration of the different housing types.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • Comments from six westside residents were opposed to the general plan amendment because they do not want the
     feel of the neighborhood to change, property values to decrease, and landowners and developers being limited in
     what they could do with their land.
  • Two developers and a real estate broker were in favor of greater density, explaining that the market needs more
     inventory to meet demand; however, they were not in favor of mandating more granular integration and preferred
     the flexibility to make those decisions themselves.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
Commissioner Jensen did not think increasing the granularity of the integration of housing types was necessary and that
it made development requirements more difficult for landowners and developers to understand.
Commissioner Urquiaga suggested that the requirements in the Intent Statement would make more sense if they were
applied only to larger developments (e.g., over 20 acres) and were incentivized rather than required. She requested that
the artwork in the Intent Statement be changed to be less busy and more appropriate for Provo.
Commissioner Gonzales stated that he supported increased density and integration, referencing a development in
northwest Provo as an example of high-quality density and diversity.
Commissioner Jones shared the opinion that Provo needs more homes at a wide variety of prices.
Commissioner Henrie explained that a variety of incomes and demographics in a neighborhood makes it more resilient
and reduces the risks of decline and crime; however, not all types of housing belong on all blocks.
Commissioner Anderson stated that he could support flexibility within a range of required density levels and that the
success of a more granular mix would largely depend on design. He agreed that Provo needs a range of housing types
(especially nicer “move up” homes) and suggested that the Intent Statement’s policies could be applied citywide.




                 Planning Commission Chair




Planning Supervisor Community & Neighborhood Services Department


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West
100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office
hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).
        BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
