                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                   September 09, 2020


 Item 1       KKL Architects request Project Plan approval for a warehouse, located at 564 W 600 S in the Heavy
              Commercial (CM) Zone. Franklin Neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org
              PLPPA20200026




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 09, 2020:


                                                   APPROVED
On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Brian Henrie
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Brian Henrie, Laurie Urquiaga, Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen,
Dave Anderson, Robert Knudsen.

Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


 APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
 • Land Use Code #5200 and #6627

 APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
 • Total number of parking stalls required is 6.
 • Total number of parking stalls provided is 7.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 CRC approved the project plan.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair about a meeting, but the Chair did inform staff of concerns
 and they were included in the staff report.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
Public comment was opened during the hearing and no comments were made.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The building will be used to store scaffolding and fork lifts.
• There will be no storing of hazardous materials or manufacturing of stucco at the warehouse.
• They will not be paving the entire site with asphalt; they will use a permeable road base in most areas.
• They will use pick-up trucks and trailers with a larger truck used occasionally.
• Any change of use in the future would have to be permitted and would be reviewed by the City.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• There was a discussion about the public right-of-way and if there would be widening of the narrow street and if
   landscaping, sidewalk, and curbs would be installed. Public Works informed the Commission that they would have
   the applicant sign an agreement to have those installed at a future date if needed.
• The fire marshal reviewed the plans and there was no mention of hazardous materials.
• The use of the building as a stucco warehouse could change in the future and another permitted use would be able to
   use the site for that business.
• Landscaping in the front will go in at the time that sidewalk, curb and gutter are required.
• No outdoor storage is being proposed for the use and will conform to the zoning requirements.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
