                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 24, 2021


 Item 1        Alan Poulson requests Project Plan approval for renovation of the commercial building located at 655 E
               300 S in the General Commercial (CG) zone. Maeser Neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414
               dwright@provo.org PLPPA20200423



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
24, 2021:


                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 5:1, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Dave Anderson, Robert Knudsen, Brian Henrie
Votes Against the Motion: Daniel Gonzales
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


RELATED ACTIONS
 This item was continued from the March 10, 2021 Planning Commission hearing.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*Standard Land Use Code 5711

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*60 Total parking stalls required.
*60 Total parking stalls provided.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. A memo was provided to the Planning Commission outlining the updates that have been made since
the item was continued at the March 10, 2021 hearing. Staff explained that the land use code was discussed the Assistant
City Attorney and that it was determined that the proposed use would fit under SLU Code 5711 for the architectural
woodworking business to make and sell the products. The updated site plan now shows the dust collection relocated to the

                                                        Page 1 of 2
front of the building, away from residential homes and placed in an enclosed structure to reduce concerns for noise. The
location of the dust collection system displaced some of the parking from the original site plan. This parking was added in
the rear of the property to keep sufficient parking to meet the parking requirements of the code.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held prior to the original Planning Commission hearing.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • No neighbors or other interested parties addressed the Planning Commission.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
 • No additional comments

 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
 • Commissioner expressed gratitude to the applicant for moving the location of the dust collection and for enclosing it
    to reduce concerns over the noise.
 • The added landscape to the site will be a great improvement to the site. Having the trees will help reduce the heat
    from the parking lot in the summers.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

 See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
     to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
     of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
     Report of Action.
 Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
     hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
     hearing.
 Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
     an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
     Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
     Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                        Page 2 of 2
