                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   December 11, 2024


    ITEM 7      David Bragonje requests Concept Plan approval for 16 townhomes in a proposed MDR (Medium Density
                Residential) Zone, located approximately at 5568 N Canyon Road. North Timpview Neighborhood.
                Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20240265

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
December 11, 2024:
                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Adam Shin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Anna Allen, Andrew South, Melissa, Kendall, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Barbara DeSoto,
Adam Shin
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
Planning Commission recommended approval of the related Zone Map Amendment (Item #6, 12/11/24 Planning
Commission agenda, PLRZ20240266).

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
•  48 Total parking stalls required
•  58 Total parking stalls provided
•  3 Required parking stalls per unit

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Applies - referred applicant to Council Attorney.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff responded to Planning Commission questions regarding sewer availability, zone standards
for MDR and LDR Zones, and details of the draft development agreement.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.
• Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 10/10/2024.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

                                                        Page 1 of 2
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• Sharon Memmott gave an overview of the neighborhood meeting and expressed concern over doing a MDR Zone
    with development agreement and stated she would be more supportive of a LDR Zone with adjustments to the height
    regulations.
• Marian Monaghan stated she likes the project but is not in favor of the zone proposed and doesn’t believe the
    development agreement would hold.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• David Bragonje spoke of the several soil studies that have been done on and near the site to confirm it would be a
   buildable area. He also pointed out that the current zone is not useful and that his proposal will be a good fit.
• Mr. Bragonje also responded to Planning Commission questions regarding access, traffic, and development of the
   site.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• The Planning Commission spoke about past concerns with grading and access to the site, and past support to MDR
   with 66 units.
• The Commission discussed the possibility of a much denser development coming to the site but based on sewer
   constraints and the development agreement, they did not share that concern.
• The Commission noted that the plan fits with the future land use map of the proposed Northeast Neighborhoods Plan.
• They shared that there was more comfort in the MDR than trying to make a LDR Zone work with text amendments
   or variances, and that additional delays would not be fair to the applicant.
• The motion referenced the conclusion of the staff report (Item #6, pg. 5) as being a part of the recommendation for
   approval, addressing needed infrastructure and owner-occupancy.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                                       Page 2 of 2
