                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  September 13, 2023


 *ITEM #1     Development Services proposes the Gateway Standards (General Plan Appendix AA). Citywide
              Application. Jantsen Teuscher (801) 852-6405 jteuscher@provo.org PLGPA20230190

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of
September 13, 2023:
                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Andrew South
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Raleen Wahlin, Lisa Jensen, Dan Gonzales, Melissa Kendall, Jonathan Hill,
Jeff Whitlock, and Andrew South.
Dan Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
   • Staff explained the outcome of what was discussed at the Planning Commission Study Session (July 26th, 2023)
       and the key changes made. This included the separation of all gateways, the addition of 3700 North as a gateway,
       the introduction of gateway themes, and a discussion on maintenance.
   • Staff verbalized the changes to the document between publication of the staff report and the hearing. The changes
       primarily consisted of cosmetic and grammar changes and any feedback received from any Planning Commissioner
       prior to the hearing.
   • Staff vocalized the purpose of this document is to provide a ‘toolkit’ of potential standards to be used as needed
       throughout Provo and the gateways.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • There was no neighborhood meeting.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • One public comment, given by Javin Weaver, questioned the tier of Geneva Road and 2000 North but overall
    supported the document.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:

                                                        Page 1 of 3
•   Staff said that grammar/phrasing and tier layout would be addressed, additionally staff addressed concerns with design
    corridors and gateway inclusion.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Lisa Jensen had comments on grammar/phrasing, the addition of 3700 North, additional gateway themes, and the tier
   layout.
• Jeff Whitlock also agreed with the layout and questions on the length of the design corridors.
• Robert Knudsen had a comment on whether this document would change the underlying zone or try and influence the
   development of the gateway areas.
• Dan Gonzales commented on the wording around trellis, ensuring if it’s not landscaped it still has a appeasing visual
   element.
• Lisa Jensen and Dan Gonzales praised the applicability of the document, allowing it to be used to help individualize
   each gateway.
• Jonathan Hill questioned why some gateways were included and others not.



                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
                              Exhibit A
          The full text of the Gateway Standards can be viewed at this link:
https://www.provo.org/home/showpublisheddocument/23042/638296117412735679




                                 Page 3 of 3
