                                     Provo City Planning Commission
                                         Report of Action
                                                September 23, 2020

*Item 3   Jeffrey Rands requests a Zone Change from Residential Conservation (RC) to Very Low Density Residential
          (VLDR) to subdivide the lot to create one 5,000 sf, single-family lot, located at 189 S 500 W. Franklin
          Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org PLRZ20200124


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 23, 2020:

           RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the above noted application with
 conditions.

Motion By: Deborah Jensen
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Brian Henrie, Dave
Anderson, and Robert Knudsen

Laurie Urquiaga was present and acted as Chair.


 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the Very Low Density Residential (VLDR) Zone is described in the attached
 Exhibit “A.”

 RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also approved the associated concept plan for the subject property (Item 4,
 PLCP20200184).

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
 conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission
 included the following: Staff gave an overview of the proposal and staff recommendation as read in the Staff
 Report.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
   • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification. An alternative method to a
      neighborhood meeting (social media post) was used to gathering feedback from the public. Development
      Services did receive an email from citizens that live adjacent to the subject property. The citizens were
      concerned about the density of the proposal, neighborhood stability, and maintaining the historic and
      architectural character of the Franklin Neighborhood.
 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
   • No comments or questions for this item were received from the public at this meeting.
APPLICANT RESPONSE
The following are key points the applicant made during the meeting:
   • His current plan is to build a single-family dwelling on the proposed lot.
   • The new dwelling would not be kept as a rental; his intent is for single-family, owner-occupancy.
   • He does not believe this proposal squeezes in another dwelling site; the proposal fits with the built
       environment.
   • A new home that embraces the historic nature, including architecture, of the neighborhood could add
       value to the neighborhood and attract a better feel to the area.
   • He does not believe the welfare and safety of the area would be negatively impacted by a new home.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioner Lisa Jensen stated that she appreciates the first goal of the Future Land Use section of
      the Franklin Neighborhood Plan, which states: “Replace existing RC (Residential Conservation) zoning
      with new zones to allow positive change in the Franklin Neighborhood.” She believes this goal supports
      the proposal. She appreciates the new concept plan. Commissioner Jensen also noted that it appears the
      applicant listened to the recommendations of the Planning Commission in revising his concept plan.
   • Commissioner Deborah Jensen stated that she believes the proposal is in-line with the stabilization of
      the Franklin Neighborhood objectives. The proposal allows for in-fill, single-family housing. She
      expressed that compatible, in-fill development could occur on the subject property.
   • Commissioner Urquiaga questioned whether there are design requirements that ensure that new
      construction would harmonize with the existing neighborhood style. Staff stated they were aware of no
      such requirements.
   • Commissioner Lisa Jensen wanted to know if the existing home was on an historic registry or historic
      overlay zone. Staff stated that it was not.
   • The proposal was recommended for approval according to the conditions listed in the staff report.




                Planning Commission Chair




            Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West 100
South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are
Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                    EXHIBIT “A”


             LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
COM. AT SW COR OF BLK 49, PLAT A, PROVO CITY SURVEY; N 5 RODS; E 8 RODS; S 5 RODS; W 8
RODS TO BEG.
