                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    August 14, 2024


    ITEM #2        Rachel Dressel requests Project Plan Approval for a new four-unit townhome development in the
                   West Gateway (WG) zone, located at 1010 West Center St. Dixon Neighborhood. Dustin Wright
                   (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLCUP20230236

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
August 14, 2024:


                               APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

Conditions of Approval:
    1. That a final subdivision plat is approved and recorded.

Motion By: Adam Shin
Second By: Daniel Gonzales
Votes in Favor of Motion: Adam Shin, Daniel Gonzales, Melissa Kendall, Barbara DeSoto, Lisa Jensen, Jonathon Hill
Jonathon Hill was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
Conditional Use Permit PLCUP20230236 August 14, 2024 Planning Commission was approved with conditions.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*4 Total Units
*Type of occupancy approved: Family
*Standard Land Use Code 1112

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*9 Total parking stalls required
*9 Total parking stalls provided


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.




                                                        Page 1 of 2
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• The Neighborhood District Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• A neighbor stated that it will be nice to have this property developed and a good addition to the area.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The applicant was not present to speak about the item.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Parking access looks like it will be tight. Maybe if the property was not smaller than the minimum requirement of the
   zone then this would be less of an issue. The spacing is typical of that seen in a parking lot.
• Snow removal will be handled by the applicant. There is some space available at the end of the drive aisle where snow
   could be pushed.
• Garbage collection will be handled by each tenant using city cans that are taken to the curb and stored in the individual
   garages.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS

                                                       Page 2 of 2
