                                    Provo City Planning Commission
                                         Report of Action
                                                    June 10, 2020

Item 5*         The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests an ordinance text amendment to Section
                15.20.110(3)(d) to allow mulch and rock ground cover in landscaped buffers. Citywide application. Austin
                Taylor (801) 852-6423 ataylor@provo.org PLOTA20200143




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of June
10, 2020


                                          Recommend Approval
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application

Motion by: Laurie Urquiaga
Second by: Dave Anderson
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Andrew Howard, Deborah
Jensen
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission:
• Landscaped buffers are sometimes required between two properties with dissimilar uses, such as manufacturing
   bordering residential
• Current code requires a 10- foot wide buffer with a hedge, shade trees, and plant groundcover
• This ordinance text amendment will change tree spacing from 30 feet to 25 feet and allow mulch and stone ground
   cover instead of only planted material
• The purpose is to reduce landscaping water use

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
None

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Dave Anderson shared his experience with non-residential developers; he said they sometimes plant ornamental trees
instead of shade trees because they are cheaper. Mr. Anderson recommends we find a way to specify what a shade tree
is so people plant trees that grow big enough to actually provide shade.
                   Planning Commission Chair




                Director of Development Services


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).
             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
