                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                     January 08, 2020


*ITEM 1           Quinn Peterson, Downtown Neighborhood Chair, requests an ordinance amendment to allow approval of
restaurants with ancillary microbrewing as a permitted use in the SC3, DT1, and DT2 zones. Citywide application. Aaron
Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20190378




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of January
08, 2020:


                                     RECOMMEND APPROVAL
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew Howard
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Dave Anderson, Deborah Jensen, Robert
Knudsen
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDED TEXT AMENDMENT
 The text of the proposed ordinance amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Overview of proposed amendment and the purpose and objectives of allowing the use.


 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
• Rich Nelson stated he supports the amendment and hopes to see new establishment’s downtown.
• Joel Raken stated support for the amendment and hopes it will boost tourism for Provo.
• Jordan, a restaurant owner, hopes the amendment will pass so he can look into new opportunities.
• The public discussed the heavy State regulations that will ensure clean, well-run establishments.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Quinn Peterson stated that this amendment will help build the momentum of the downtown restaurant culture and
       attract new businesses that have had to be turned away in the past.
   • Quinn stated that there are currently 15 restaurants that already can serve alcohol in Provo, and that the two bars
       are the only that the City can have due to City regulations.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission discussed how the microbrewery restaurants will be regulated, and what the current
       rules are for restaurants that serve alcohol.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

              BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGIN
