                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   November 10, 2021


 *ITEM #4       Tim Metler requests a Zone Change from the Residential Conservation (RC) zone to the Campus Mixed
                Use (CMU) zone, located from 46 W to 90 W 800 N, to allow for a 65-unit apartment complex. North
                Park Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20210112



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 10, 2021:


                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.


Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission. Commission determination is not generally
      consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also continued the related concept plan (Item #3) at the November 10 hearing.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff made note of the additional concerns noted in the Public Works memo, stated that approval
of a TDM is needed, and recommended that a Development Agreement may be needed with the zone change request.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.
 • Traffic study may be required with future stages of approval.
 • Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required. However, feedback from
    the neighborhood Facebook page and Open City Hall is included in the Staff Report.



                                                        Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was present and addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Eric Chase stated support for the zone change, but preferred earlier concept plans without the expansion of 800
        North. Mr. Chase has concerns about the I-15 corridor study and widening of 800 North.
    • Terry Cirac stated concerns for his adjacent building during excavation for the proposed concept. Mr. Cirac also
        noted that there is no concept for the existing Foxwood Apartments, but that it is part of the requested zone
        change. He also is concerned about parking and congestion issues that could come with the proposal.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Mr. Metler responded to concerns about parking counts with information about his other apartment complex
       working with a 1:1 ratio for parking stalls and managing that with permits. He also stated that he will be sure
       caution is used during future excavations to not disturb surrounding properties, and that no changes to the
       Foxwood apartments are projected.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission discussed details of the 800 North expansion with David Day (Public Works Engineer) in regard
       to timing, need, and financial responsibility. Mr. Day noted that the 800 North expansion would be a system
       improvement, and therefore would not be paid for by developers. Mr. Day also responded to Planning
       Commission concerns, stating that there is still room for more traffic in 800 North, but that study has called for a
       future five-lane street. It was also stated that there are no other limiting factors with other utilities in this area.
   • Setbacks and amenity space were discussed, it was noted that the amenity space had been altered from the previous
       design, but the concept still met zone standards. The five-foot to ten-foot front setback would come only after the
       800 North expansion and could be approved by the Department Director.
   • Dave Anderson shared his concern for reduced parking and thought that the developer should share in costs for
       the 800 North expansion. He noted his frustration with the change in amenity space and the proposed number of
       units; questioning whether the CMU zone fits.
   • Brian Henrie noted that 800 North does not seem very busy and probably has room for more traffic. Mr. Henrie
       did note his concern about parking and hoped staff could provide additional detail on student parking habits. He
       was supportive of keeping the street trees during construction.
   • Lisa Jensen thought that the permits mentioned in the TDM would be a helpful way to control parking, but that
       careful attention to the architecture would be important with the minimal front setback. Ms. Jensen did not feel
       comfortable using the CMU zone in the way proposed by the applicant, including the existing Foxwood
       apartments to meet density regulations. She suggested that the proposal could lose units and/or find a different
       zone.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation: Though the
Planning Commission was generally supportive of the proposal, they were concerned that the CMU zone regulations did
not necessarily match the concept without the inclusion of the adjacent apartment complex. The reason for continuance




                                                         Page 2 of 3
is to allow the applicant and staff to examine other zoning alternatives that would be more fitting for just the development
site (south parcel) and to get more detail on student parking demand.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                        Page 3 of 3
