                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   September 09, 2020


 *ITEM #3      Dudley and Associates request Zone Changes from Residential Agriculture (RA) to R1.10 for 2.31 acres,
               located at approximately 4100 N Canyon Road and 3.42 acres, located at 3956 N Canyon Road. North
               Timpview Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20200217




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 09, 2020:


                                POSITIVE RECOMMENDATION
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Brian Henrie
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Brian Henrie, Deborah Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales,
Dave Anderson, Robert Knudsen
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the R1.10 Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

 RELATED ACTIONS
 The related concept plan was continued by the Planning Commission to resolve code issues (Item 4 – PLCP20200223).

 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • A Development Agreement is not anticipated as part of this zone change.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Staff reviewed the zone change request and concept plan, indicating they still need to go through a subdivision
 approval.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • David Day from Provo Engineering responded to questions regarding street connections, block lengths, driveways on
    collectors, and street cross-sections.
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing and expressed support for
   the zone change.
• Neighbors or other interested parties addressed the Planning Commission. No opposition to the zone change was
   expressed.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Bonnie Morrow stated that the layout works for the area, appreciates the cul-de-sac for traffic calming, and
        supports the proposal.
    • Cindy Reed wanted more information on the concept plan to evaluate the proposal.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Mr. Dudley addressed concerns with the Canyon Drive improvements, stating that an HOA will maintain the
       parkway and sidewalks. He also updated staff and the Commission, stating that a redesign of the layout has
       occurred that will get rid of the northern cul-de-sac.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • There was a lot of discussion regarding support for the R1.10 zone in the area, but that better connections could
       be made through the concept plan for the subdivision.
   • Laurie Urquiaga introduced the idea of pedestrian connections through the developments where roads were not
       an option.
   • Commission members agreed that being between two collectors does pose access and layout difficulties, so cul-
       de-sacs were an acceptable option for this area.
   • Deborah Jensen stated that the zone fits with the neighborhood and General Plan, but would hope for better
       connections in the future.
   • Commission members were concerned with the double-frontage lots, and thought rear access driveways or open
       fence ideas could improve the corridor.
   • Brian Henrie wondered what could be done in the cul-de-sacs to improve their appearance and cut down on
       asphalt; and if the extra space on Canyon Road could be used for improved bike paths.
   • Deborah made a more general statement that Provo roads need to be more than just “car-movers” and that the
       City should look at being more neighborhood friendly with streets.
                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
