                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   December 08, 2021


 ITEM 6*       Community and Neighborhood Services requests a General Plan Amendment to clarify the existing
               Westside Development Policies and Future Land Use Map with a Southwest Plan Intent Statement.
               Citywide. Hannah Salzl (801) 852-6423 hsalzl@provo.org PLGPA20210242



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of December
08, 2021:


                                                  CONTINUED
On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.


Motion By: Brian Henrie
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Ally Jones, Lisa Jensen, Brian Henrie, Daniel Gonzales, Dave Anderson, Peter
Fife, Miles Miller, Laurie Urquiaga
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
 • Staff reviewed the history and purpose of the intent statement and shared a list of changes to the document since it
     was last presented for a public hearing, including changes made by the Planning Commission in a previous study
     session.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • No Neighborhood Chairs or other members of the public were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
 • Brian Henrie tried a mock development on the west side using these policies and found it difficult to avoid extremes
    in density while staying under the overall density limit of four units per acre.
 • Dave Anderson reiterated that these policies should be an encouraged option but not mandated in any way.



                                                        Page 1 of 2
•   The Planning Commission changed the document to clarify that the density bonus applies only to developments
    greater than 10 acres, though Brian Henrie raised the concern that 10 acres might be too large and a smaller number
    could be considered.
•   Lisa Jensen expressed concerns about it making financial sense for developers to follow the policies in the intent
    statement.
•   Brian Henrie shared the idea that a flexible visionary plan, such as those in Vineyard and Daybreak, might send a
    clearer message to developers and get the city better big-picture developments.
•   Laurie Urquiaga suggested a working group to further explore the best way to encourage the development of the
    appropriate housing types on the west side.
•   Brian Henrie and Dave Anderson agreed, saying it was worth taking the time to get this right.
•   The following Planning Commissioners volunteered for the working group:
    • Miles Miller
    • Brian Henrie
    • Peter Fife
    • Robert Knudsen
    • Daniel Gonzales




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
