                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 27, 2024

 *ITEM 2     Development Services requests Ordinance Text Amendments to Chapter 15.20.120 Parkways. Citywide
             Application. Hannah Salzl (801) 852-6423 hsalzl@provo.org PLOTA20230206

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of February
28, 2024:
                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Barbara DeSoto
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen, Jonathon Hill, Babara DeSoto, Jeff Whitlock
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • This item was city-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
 • No members of the public chose to address the Planning Commission.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
 • Commissioner Jensen asked several questions about the wording, which was not ultimately changed in the
     recommendation to the Council. These questions include:
    • Whether the sentence “Outdoor carpet shall not be used in landscaping” in both subsections a and b should be
        replaced with a subsection c.
    • Whether subsection a should read “shall” or “may.” Because landscaping is required, “shall” is most appropriate.
    • Whether the added text in subsection b should be restructured or be kept as is and use the same language as the
        15.20.060 update.
 • The Commission agreed that the update was consistent with the 15.20.060 amendment for which they had already
     forwarded a positive recommendation.
                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center St., Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
   office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                          EXHIBIT A

15.20.120 Parkways.

…

(1) Parkway Landscaping.

      (a) Parkways less than four (4) feet in width shall be landscaped with materials including bark,
      decorative stone, brick pavers, concrete pavers, permeable pavers, poured concrete, artificial turf or
      vegetative ground cover. Outdoor carpet shall not be used in landscaping.

      (b) Parkways four (4) feet or more in width shall be landscaped. Living vegetation including turf
      grass, or vegetative materials, or artificial turf grass shall cover a minimum of forty percent (40%) of the
      unbuilt surface area within three (3) years of planting. Tree canopy, artificial turf and weeds may not
      count toward this percentage. Artificial turf shall not exceed sixty percent (60%) of the unbuilt surface
      area and shall comply with the installation requirements in 15.20.060(6)(d). Outdoor carpet shall not be
      used in landscaping.
