                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     August 26, 2020


*ITEM 4         Robert Steele requests a Zone Change from A1.1 to R1.10 for 3.75 acres of land, located at approximately
                1487 W 990 S. Sunset Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
                PLRZ20200209



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of August
26, 2020:


                           RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Robert Knudsen, Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen,
Brian Henrie, Russell Phillips
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the R1.10 Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.


 RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also approved with conditions the related preliminary subdivision for the property (Item 5,
 PLPSUB20200209).


 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Staff gave on overview of the proposal and reasons for approval.


 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.


CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None


APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The applicant responded to questions about timing, stating that he has no timeline for buildout on the subdivision.


PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission asked questions of staff and the applicant regarding timeline for lots, road completion and
       access, and road standards.
   • The Commission determined that the proposed R1.10 zone makes sense for the property and meets the goals of
       the Southwest Future Land Use Plan.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
