                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  November 09, 2022


*ITEM #1       Provo City Public Works requests approval of an Ordinance Text Amendment to Section 15.03.020(3),
               Provo City Code, to update 2022 standards to 2023 standards. Citywide application. David Day (801)
               852-6735 dday@provo.org PLOTA20220333



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 09, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Jeff Whitlock
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Jeff Whitlock, Lisa Jensen, Melissa Kendall, Raleen Whalin, Andrew South
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.



                                                        Page 1 of 3
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • David Day explained the changes and showed some examples of what is being adopted as referenced in the City
       Code.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission asked staff to go through several pages of the changes while staff explained some of
       the major changes being made.
   • Lisa Jensen clarified that the ordinance change was just updating the references to the Public Work standards
       from 2022 to 2023.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                                  EXHIBIT A

Section 15.03.020. General Development Standards.
 ...

   (3) Provo City adopts and incorporates by reference into this section:

      (a) The following nationally recognized, industry standards:

          (i)     Manual of Standard Specifications, 2017, American Public Works Association;

          (ii)    Manual of Standard Plans, 2017, American Public Works Association;

          (iii)   Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways (the
                  “MUTCD”), 2009 Edition, Federal Highway Administration;

          (iv)    A Policy on Geometric Design of Highways and Streets, 6th Edition, American
                  Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials;

          (v)     Trip Generation Manual, 10th Edition, Institute of Transportation Engineers; and

      (b) The following local standards, which supersede those standards adopted by Subsection (3)(a)
          of this Section to the extent there is any conflict:

          (i)     2023 Provo Standard Drawing Details;

          (ii)    2023 Provo City Public Works Department Development Design Standards;

          (iii)   Utah Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, For Streets and Highways,
                  (FHWA’s MUTCD 2009 Edition as amended for use in Utah), 2011, Utah Department
                  of Transportation;

          (iv)    2017 Standard Specifications for Road and Bridge Construction, 2017, Utah
                  Department of Transportation;

          (v)     2017 Standard Drawings for Road and Bridge Construction, 2017, Utah Department
                  of Transportation; and

          (vi)    Utah Administrative Rules Titles R305-R317




                                                  Page 3 of 3
