                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                       July 26, 2023

 ITEM #1     Ryan McCoard requests Concept Plan approval for approximately 100,000 square feet of new warehouse
             space in a proposed AI (Airport Industrial) Zone, located at 3155 West Center Street. Provo Bay
             Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20230169

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of July
26, 2023:
                                                   APPROVED
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.
Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew South, Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales, Melissa Kendall, Jeff Whitlock, Barbie
DeSoto
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation on the related rezone request at the July 26 th hearing
 (PLRZ20230166).

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff also reminded the Commission that Center Street is a truck route and mostly a State street, so
it may be difficult to address some of the traffic concerns from the public.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 07/20/2023.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
     • Sam Eyre (of Beehive Homes) related concerns about increased traffic, noise, and safety; and hoped that the plans
         will be able to mitigate these impacts.



                                                        Page 1 of 2
APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
    • Mr. McCoard related that he is hopeful of creating warehouse spaces to lease on the site, but wanted to make sure
        the zone change was achieved before developing more specific plans.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
    • The Commission clarified the area of the zone and what the potential uses could be on the site.
    • Commissioners confirmed with staff and the applicant that the details of the concept plan can and will change to
        meet the zone.
    • The Commission discussed how the proposal meets the General Plan and that the future Project Plans should be
        able to address any of the concerns.




                 Planning Commission Chair



              Director of Development Services

 See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
     to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
     of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
     Report of Action.

 Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing.

 Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
    an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
    Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
    City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                        Page 2 of 2
