                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     January 17, 2024

 ITEM 1     Josh Arrington requests Project Plan approval for a new 75,000 square foot office building on a three-acre
            campus in the R&BP (Research and Business Park) Zone, located at 388 W River Bend Lane. Riverbottoms
            Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPPA20230180

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of January
17, 2024:
                                                   APPROVED
On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Jonathon Hill
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Jonathon Hill, Robert Knudsen, Raleen Whalin, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Jeff Whitlock,
Melissa Kendall, Andrew South, Barbara DeSoto
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*107 Total parking stalls provided

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff responded to questions regarding the parking, reuse of the building, and site design.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
     • Nancy Rushforth (Orem resident) shared concerns for construction of the building, hillside stability, and noise
         from the new office building (specifically with HVAC noise).
     • Tina Anderson (Orem resident) shared concerns about building operation noise and construction noise.
     • Francis Patterson (Orem resident) asked about holes being dug on the site and when the application process
         started.

                                                        Page 1 of 2
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following: The applicant
was not in attendance.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission asked additional questions of staff regarding the type of business, use of the building, and details
       on parking for the building.
   • The Commission discussed the design and architecture of the building and parking for the site, noting that there
       is sufficient parking for the office spaces, and that the design was very nice.
   • The Commission found that noise is a concern so the builders/owners should make efforts to minimize operational
       noise from the building. Keith Morey (staff) noted that Title 6 of the City Code will regulate noise emanating
       from the building.
   • The Commission also noted that slope stability will be addressed by engineering and building review.
   • Staff confirmed with the Planning Commission that there is no risk on the City to allow the building to move
       forward, the applicant bonds for the improvements.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 West
   Center St, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
   office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
