                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      May 13, 2020


Item 6          Brent Tippets requests Project Plan approval for the Provo City Center Building, to be located at 495 W Center
                Street in the General Downtown (DT1) zone. Downtown Neighborhood. Brian Maxfield (801) 852-6429
                bmaxfield@provo.org PLPPA20200106




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of May
13, 2020:


                                 APPROVED with CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:
  1. All requirements of the Coordinator’s Review Committee (CRC) are met.
  2. Allow staff approval of a Final Landscaping Plan after further review by the City’s Design Review Committee
 (DRC)

Motion By: Maria Winden
Second By: Russ Phillips
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard; Maria Winden; Laurie Urquiaga; Lisa Jensen; Russ Phillips; Dave
Anderson; Deborah Jensen.
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
 conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission
 included the following: Staff gave a brief introduction to the project and stated that with 336 proposed parking spaces,
 the project met the minimum requirement of 313 parking spaces. For security reasons, floor plans for the buildings were
 not included in the staff report. The presentation was then turned over to the architect, Brent Tippets.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 None

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 Due to open houses being held regarding this project, the Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting
 would not be required.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
No neighborhood comments were received by staff prior to the meeting, or were expressed by the public during the
meeting.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
None

APPLICANT PRESENTATION AND RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The design elements and the exterior materials to be used
   • The design of the plaza areas
   • A description of the parking areas

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The belief that the building design and building materials are well done.
   • Assurance that the eastern parking area will be properly landscaped if it does not otherwise develop.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item.
    Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
   application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
   West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
   City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
