The Pleasant View Neighborhood is actively involved in planning for the constantly changing
development of Provo City. 2230 North is a street through a one family housing area and a
apartment/condominium/medium density area in the Pleasant View neighborhood. We held a
neighborhood meeting last night on the proposed language for 2230 North in this 2020 Provo City
Transportation Master Plan. After 8 years of meetings with the Mountainland Association of
Government, Provo City, and consultants, the neighborhood is supportive of further study to consider
safety and capacity. The neighborhood is earnestly opposed to the road being converted to a 5 lane
street. The plan for a 5 lane development needs to be removed from the Mountainland Association of
Government Transportation Improvement Plan (TIP) and the Mountainland Association of Government
TransPlan50 Regional Transportation Plan. The budget of $3.2 million for a 2230 North project is
based on a 5 lane road. The budget needs to be changed to “to be determined” or “TBD” until further
study to consider safety and capacity.

First of all capacity. Making no changes on 2230 North, the year 2040 model shows no change in
capacity needs. In the year 2000 Provo City Transportation Master Plan, the traffic count on 2230
North was over 20,000 vehicles per day. The use of 2230 North has decreased 15% over the past 20
years, not increased. There are some future changes that may impact capacity. First, the Church of
Jesus Christ is building a temple in Orem commencing this summer on Geneva Road at the west end of
University Parkway. It is thought that some traffic decrease on 2230 North will be seen in two years
when patrons from Orem use the Geneva location. Second, BYU will be increasing enrollment by 500
students each year for the next 6 years. This will result in a 10% increase in students from roughly
32,000 to 35,000. We hope that this increased housing need will be met by the high density housing
development envisioned for the south side of BYU campus. Third, BYU has announced a plan to build
a 170,000 square foot Music Building on the corner of 1100 North and 900 East in the parking lot east
of the J. Reuben Clark Law School and south of the Creamery on 9th. The new music building will
include a 1000 seat performance hall. Parking for both the Law School and Music Building will be
reduced to about 250 stalls losing over half of the current capacity. Furthermore, patrons of the Music
Building will not be able to access the building from Cougar Boulevard on the west side but will be
funneled to the north and south sides of BYU campus and universally routed onto 900 East. The traffic
routing impacts and adjacent parking impacts on residential streets are of great concern and we look
forward to continued discussion on solutions before the BYU Music Building Project Plan comes
before the Planning Commission. Is this the right time to plan a UVX stop at the BYU Wilkinson
Student Center on the round about or alternatively on 900 East as was once envisioned? Transportation
Master Plans require master planning with federal, state, municipal, and private entities, and, may take
some time but certainly incredible effort.

Second, safety. A traffic warrant study technically justifies a traffic light at the intersection of 2300
North and 2230 North. The same traffic conditions exist for the intersection of North Temple Drive
and 900 East. I am not so certain about the warrant for the traffic light on University Parkway south of
the Church of Jesus Christ Missionary Training Center at the east side of the intersection of the Marriott
Center parking lot. Pedestrians, particularly school children, require safe passage across 2230 North in
the vicinity of the intersection with 2300 North. A traffic light at that intersection would certainly
increase safe passage for pedestrians. The neighborhood looks forward to working with Provo City
Public Works on the planning for safety on 2230 North. There are areas that no street parking could be
considered, particularly flanking the 2300 North/2230 North intersections and at elevation transition
points on the road. The design of the intersection and the long term plans for 2230 North should be
explored before Provo City invests in a traffic signal, an action that will preclude open considerations
for the long term viability of the neighborhood and 2230 North as a tree lined residential area. We look
forward to further discussion. We are willing and ready to work for a strong neighborhood and a strong
Provo City. Thank you to Public Works and Parametrix for developing a Transportation Master Plan
that will, overall, take us by walking, or bicycles, or scooters, or private vehicles, or autonomous
vehicles and public transportation into a strong future.
