                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     August 14, 2024


     ITEM #6    Scott Doscher requests Concept Plan approval for a two-lot subdivision in a proposed R1.8 (One
                Family Residential) Zone, located at 484 North 2760 West. Lakeview South Neighborhood. Mary
                Barnes (801) 852-6408 mabarnes@provo.org PLCP20240186

Scott Doscher requests Concept Plan approval for a two-lot subdivision in a proposed R1.8 (One Family Residential)
Zone, located at 484 North 2760 West. Lakeview South Neighborhood. Mary Barnes (801) 852-6408
mabarnes@provo.org PLCP20240186

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of
August 14, 2024:


                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
 1. NO CONDITIONS.

Motion By: Daniel Gonzales
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Jonathon Hill, Melissa Kendall, Daniel Gonzales, Barbara DeSoto, and Adam Shin.
Jonathon Hill was present as Chair.

 •     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
       noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
The property to be rezoned to the R1.8 Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
August 14, 2024, Planning Commission Item 5, rezone application PLRZ20240184

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*2 Total Units
*Type of occupancy approved: Family
*Standard Land Use Code 1111

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

                                                        Page 1 of 4
    •   On the final CRC report, the engineers made the applicant aware of issues and requirements that will be brought
        up during the final subdivision application. This includes utility issues, grading issues, and dedicating a small
        sliver of a right-of-way easement along the western property line for a possible future cul-de-sac, to provide a
        way for the property owner to the west to subdivide in the future if interested.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
   • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
This application affects the Lakeview South Neighborhood in District 3. This item was presented in the August 7th District
3 meeting. There were no questions from the residents present at the meeting.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
   • The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Tina Carter, Lakeview South Neighborhood. The property owner has said that he is only planning on two lots.
        The engineer (applicant) seems to be thinking about more than two lots. It’s a little unclear what is happening
        here. Lakeview South would like to be included in any future decisions regarding development in the area.
    • John Hales, Lakeview South Neighborhood. In favor of two lots on this property and appreciates information
        from the property owner.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The property owner has attempted to work out an agreement for the development of the subject property and the
       property to the west. The property owner to the west did not want to entertain the idea of development or give an
       easement for access.
   • There is no way to develop this property without a flag lot. The final plat will meet R1.8 zoning standards.
   • The best way for this property to progress and improve is with a subdivision that requires improvements to the
       property.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioner Hill spoke for the group, stating that allowing a flag lot on this land would severely impact future
       use, and possible future building lots that could exist on the property. Commissioner Hill expressed a wish to see
       different potential ways that this property could be reconfigured to fit more lots, assuming that a cul-de-sac or
       other road is built into the property to the west. A flag lot is not the ideal configuration of this property and could
       create a bad situation in the future.
            o Commissioner Gonzalez pointed out that the R1.8 zoning would limit future development possibilities.
                R1.8 caps density and provides lot standards.
            o Commissioner Hill stated that it is important to look to the future of the properties instead of planning for
                the current situation. This subdivision could be a good idea at the moment, but would it be a bad idea for
                the future development of the subject property and the property to the west. Flag lots are something to
                avoid, the city is settling for something that is far less than ideal.
   • Commissioner Jensen stated that she does not have an issue with flag lots, other than they can be an inefficient
       use of land. An extra driveway simply means that there is a larger setback between adjacent homes. While flag
       lots aren’t ideal, they will have lower nuisance value and potentially less impact on the neighborhood.
   • Commissioner Shin agreed, these lots are larger and have the potential to have beautiful new homes. This will
       only be single family homes with an R1.8 zoning. Any change to that zoning will have to be brought before the

                                                         Page 2 of 4
        planning commission and City Council, which will allow the neighbors to have another chance to voice their
        concerns.
    •   Commissioner Gonzalez said that flag lots are not something that he appreciates, but it makes sense in this
        instance. To make this a green space as mentioned by the residents, take the proposal to the City Council.
    •   Commissioner DeSoto finished the discussion by stating that private property rights are important, and
        agricultural uses behind an existing subdivision can change.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 4
Exhibit A




 R1.8




Page 4 of 4
