                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                       June 9, 2021


 *ITEM 6       Jason Bennett requests a Zone Change from A1.10 and A1.5 to R1.8 for 68 single-family lots, and from
               A1.5 and A1.10 to the RA Zone for 1 lot, located at approximately 200 N Lakeshore Drive. Fort Utah
               Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org PLRZ20210049



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of June 9,
2021:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, and Robert Knudsen

Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
The property to be rezoned to the R1.8 Zone (One-Family Residential) and RA Zone (Residential Agricultural) is described
in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also approved the related Concept Plan, Item 5, at the June 9, 2021 hearing.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • Two (2) neighborhood meetings were held (one on May 6, 2021, and the other March 25, 2021).



                                                        Page 1 of 5
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
   • Jonathon Hill, Fort Utah Neighborhood Chair, noted that his neighborhood was polled twice concerning the
     proposal and the neighborhood was overwhelmingly in favor of it.
   • He noted the following reasons for neighborhood support of the proposal:
         o Adheres to the Southwest Plan
         o Proposal improves the housing mix in Provo
         o Preserves open feel of the area near proposal
         o Minimizes impacts on Center Street traffic and local schools
   • Staff read or summarized comments from the following members of the Public:
         o Dean Griffin: He is opposed to the proposed R1.8 rezone because of the potential of smaller lots, as
              opposed to the R1.10 lots in the area. Dean expressed concerns about the affect a new development (built
              with an R1.8 zoning designation) would have on the property values. An R1.10 zoning designation is
              more preferably to Mr. Griffin, but he would rather not see any development take place on the subject
              property.
         o Kristen Zimmerman: Expressed support for the proposal.
         o Sara Hill: Sara noted the lack of westside infrastructure for development and Center Street being near
              capacity. She would like new homes to fit in with existing homes and enhance the natural beauty of the
              area. We need more single-family homes to give people the option to stay in Provo when they want to
              purchase a new home. The proposal fits well with the Southwest area map.
         o Rick Smith: Mr. Smith appreciated the developer being attentive to the neighborhood’s desires. He noted
              the larger size of lots in the vicinity of subject property. Proposed lots fit well with nearby neighborhoods.
         o Christian Vom Lehn: He is supportive of high or mixed density housing, but feels the City has not given
              a clear vision for how this should look. The City has an existing vision for this area and the proposal is
              consistent with that vision. He supports the proposal.


APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
  • Mr. Jason Bennett clarified that his proposal includes dedication of access trails to the adjacent walking trail near
      the river. They will bring fill onto the site to facilitate sewer service. Tony Trane, the project engineer, stated a
      willingness to coordinate with the City on trail issues.


PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission was supportive of the proposal. Commissioner Anderson said it was easy to support
       this proposal from every perspective.
   • Commissioner Lisa Jensen does not believe the R1.8 and R1.10 zones are incompatible next to each other.
   • Commissioner Lisa Jensen made the following motion: Recommend approval of the proposed zone map
       amendment. The motion passed, 5-0.




                                                        Page 2 of 5
                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 5
                                     EXHIBIT A


Property to be rezoned to R1.8 Zone (One-Family Residential):




                                      Page 4 of 5
                               EXHIBIT A, continued


Property to be rezoned to RA Zone (One-Family Residential):




                                      Page 5 of 5
