                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                      June 8, 2022


ITEM 2        Atlas Tower requests a Conditional Use Permit for a telecommunications monopole tower, located at
              1499 N 2200 W, in the Agricultural (A-15) Zone. Grandview North Neighborhood. Melissa McNalley
              (801) 852-6164 mmcnalley@provo.org PLCUP20220126



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of June
8, 2022:


                                          Recommend Approval
On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the Conditional Use permit for Atlas Tower to
construct a monopole communications tower on parcel 19:048:0025.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Miles Miller
Votes in Favor of Motion: Miles Miller, Brian Henrie, Melissa Kendall, Dave Anderson, Robert Knudsen, Laurie
Urquiaga, Daniel Gonzales, and Lisa Jensen.

Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF/APPLICANT PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following:
   • The property is located in the A1.5 Zone, which allows monopole structures as a conditional use.
   • Atlas Towers meets the conditions for a monopole tower outlines in Provo City Code 14.34.250 (11).
   • All items related to this code will be met prior to installation of the pole.
           o Monopole site will be moved 150 feet to the north of the initial proposed location to satisfy the 160-foot
              distance required from the residential zone boundary.
           o Final set of plans will be approved by a Utah State licensed Engineer.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • There were a few members of the neighborhood who voiced their concerns of having a cell tower in the
    neighborhood. Concerns were expressed both over the appearance of the tower and the potential health risks of 5G
    transmission. Concern was also raised about noticing to the neighborhood. The applicant pointed out that there
    was a neighborhood meeting and notices were sent out to addresses within 1000 feet of the proposed site. There
    were 78 notices sent in total.
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
  • There were general questions about the appearance of the cell tower as well as the height of surrounding trees.
      Concern was expressed over the removal of some of the existing trees on the property.
  • There was discussion over 5G transmission and whether it is a danger to health. Commissioner Kendall pointed
      out that a brief internet search did not bring any negative health information related to 5G. She also reminded
      Commissioners that their job is to review the conditions.
  • Commissioner Jensen asked about additional conditions that should be added to the permit. After discussion,
      commissioners added the following to the conditions of the approval of the permit:
          o The appearance of the pole tree should be close to the native vegetation in Utah.
          o The natural vegetation on the site should be preserved as much as possible and be replaced as needed.




                 Planning Commission Chair




       Director of Development Services Department


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West
    100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office
    hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
