                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 12, 2022


ITEM #6*       The Development Services Department on behalf of the Parking Manager requests to amend Section
               14.37.100 of the Provo City Code relating to parking garage standards. Citywide application. Javin
               Weaver (801) 852-6413 jweaver@provo.org PLOTA20220288



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 12, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Andrew South
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Andrew South, Daniel Gonzales, Raleen Wahlin, and Lisa Jensen
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
• Staff explained that the purpose of the text amendment is to make it easier for people to park and access their vehicles
    in a parking garage.
• Staff explained that an analysis of the City code and existing garages occurred and staff saw that a revision to these
    standards was warranted.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• One member from the public asked the question if this would be applied to existing structure


                                                        Page 1 of 3
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• This would only be applicable to any new parking structure, no retrofitting would be required.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Lisa Jensen praised staff to continuously updating the code to improve it and make it better.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 West Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A

14.37.100
Parking Design Standards.
...

(15) Parking located adjacent to walls or columns (e.g., parking structures) shall must be one (1) foot wider to
accommodate door opening clearance and vehicle maneuverability except for columns placed within four (4)
feet of the front or back of a stall (excluding when adjacent to a wall). Parking located in a corner adjacent to a
parking row must be two (2) feet wider. The stall width shall must be clear width measured from inside
column to inside column. The backup area in carports and parking structures shall must be twenty-six (26) feet
minimum from supporting column to supporting column. Parking spaces must be free of obstructions. The
Development Services director may modify this requirement at their discretion.

...




                                                    Page 3 of 3
