                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   November 8, 2023


*ITEM 1        Development Services proposes the Hillsides and Canyons Plan be adopted. Citywide Application.
               Hannah Salzl (801)852-6423 hsalzl@provo.org PLGPA20230273


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of
November 8, 2023:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen, Dan Gonzales, Jonathan Hill, Barbara DeSoto, and Andrew
South.
Dan Gonzales was present as Chair.

   •   Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
       changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and
       determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
   • Staff summarized the key points of the document.
   • Staff highlighted that this document fulfills a request from the City Council, and it supports the General Plan in
       addition to compiling additional goals from other plans that relate to the hillsides and canyons into one cohesive
       document.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
  • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
  • There was no neighborhood meeting.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • There was no public or neighborhood comment.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   •   This plan focuses on the long-term stability and sustainability of development and recreational uses for the land in
       the project area.
   •   Many of the suggestions for future improvements and uses come from the statistically valid survey and reflect the
       desires of the citizens.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
  • Andrew South stated that previous discussion in Study Session on October 25 addressed any questions around the
      content for the plan.
  • Lisa Jensen said that she felt excited about the content of the plan and felt it was ready to be turned over to the
      Council.

                Planning Commission Chair

             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours
   are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                                         Exhibit A


Due to the size and length of the document, a link to the current draft has been provided instead of the full text.

https://www.provo.org/home/showpublisheddocument/23418/638344432546030000
