                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  September 28, 2022


*ITEM #1       The Provo City Council Housing Committee is requesting approval of an Ordinance Text Amendment
               in Chapter 14.30, Accessory Dwelling Units. Citywide Application. Melia Dayley (801) 852-6136
               mdayley@provo.org PLOTA20220263


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 28, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 4:2, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Jeff Whitlock
Second By: Raleen Whalin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Jeff Whitlock, Raleen Whalin, Robert Knudsen, Andrew South
Votes Against the Motion: Melissa Kendall, Lisa Jensen
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
   • Melia Dayley gave an overview of the proposed changes and answered previous questions regarding current ADU
       allowances, potential ADU numbers, Provo rental rates, enforcement rates, and comparisons to other cities.
   • Scott Johnson (Zoning Administrator) defined the process for ADUs and answered questions regarding
       enforcement procedures.
   • Marcus Draper (Provo Attorney) detailed family definitions and parking regulations.
   • David Day (Provo Engineering) responded to questions regarding increased infrastructure needs for detached
       ADUs, but had no issue with the current proposals.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• Multiple Neighborhood Chair(s) were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
                                                       Page 1 of 10
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Becky Bogdin stated that the changes would be okay if enforced, but shared opinion that the westside needs more
        “move-up” housing.
    • Leo Lines shared concerns of high rental rates and a lack of enforcement, as well as parking concerns.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Melia Dayley responded to questions regarding occupancy of the ADUs, locations of ADUs, and reasons for
       proposals.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission agreed that the questions from the previous hearing had been answered.
   • Melissa Kendall shared concerns of the effect on single-family neighborhoods and affordability. She hoped that
       an approval with a smaller percentage on the westside could be brought forward.
   • The Planning Commission discussed the need to balance General Plan goals of affordability and housing stock
       with diverse housing options in neighborhoods. They found comfort that a rental license for ADUs would need
       to be renewed annually, which would help enforcement. They also recognized that the proposed limits are related
       to infrastructure limitations and trying to meet the goals of the City. There was concern expressed by some of
       enforcement driven by neighbor complaints and other existing sections of 14.30 (temporary leave, description of
       permitted areas, and occupancy limits).




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 10
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 10
Page 4 of 10
Page 5 of 10
Page 6 of 10
Page 7 of 10
Page 8 of 10
Page 9 of 10
Page 10 of 10
