                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 28, 2020


 ITEM 8       Paul Washburn requests Project Plan approval to convert the existing Super 8 motel to married student
              housing in a proposed Campus Mixed Use zone, located at 1555 N Canyon Road. Carterville
              Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPPA20200150



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 28, 2020:


                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 6:1, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Deborah Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen
Votes against the Motion: Daniel Gonzales
Dave Anderson Abstained
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The related Rezone and General Plan Amendment application were advanced to the City Council at the August 26th, 2020
 Planning Commission hearing.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
86 Total Units
One Family/Three Singles per unit

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
111 Total parking stalls provided

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff presented the staff report and changes the applicant made since the previous PC hearing.

                                                         Page 1 of 3
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Paul Washburn responded to questions regarding the units being furnished and provided with cooktops, the
       parking sticker plan, and the added commercial space. He also stated that the amenities and location set this
       project apart from other hotel conversions.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Laurie Urquiaga questioned whether the apartments will be furnished.
   • Lisa Jensen asked about visitor parking, commercial parking, and the ability to provide cooking in the units. She
       also stated her concerns of the exterior elevation and if the TDM is still acceptable.
   • Brian Henrie confirmed that the trees provided in the plan were to meet a parking lot landscaping requirement
       and wondered how many parking stalls would be used by the commercial addition.
   • Dave Anderson asked why the CMU was chosen and asked what was different between this proposal and other
       converted hotels in Provo.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.



                                                      Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
