                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  September 11, 2024


    *Item 1      Provo City Council Office requests a General Plan Amendment to add an appendix to The Hillsides
                 and Canyons Plan, addressing city owned properties outside of city boundaries. Citywide
                 application. Hannah Salzl (801) 852-6423 hsalzl@provo.org PLGPA20240230

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 11, 2024:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Conditions of Approval: None

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Adam Shin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Adam Shin, Lisa Jensen, Dan Gonzales, Jonathon Hill, Melissa Kendall, Andrew South
Johnathon Hill was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.
•    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
     Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood District Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• Neighborhood District Chairs were not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.




                                                        Page 1 of 3
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• No members of the public made comments either in writing or during the public hearing.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Commissioner Jensen asked how Provo came to own these properties outside of its jurisdiction. The lands were
   purchased for parks owned and operated by the City on land managed by the Forest Service or for water rights.
• Commissioner Jensen asked staff to clarify that this statement is not legally binding.
• The Commission considered adding language referencing Provo’s Open Space and Recreation Zone (OSPR), but
   decided to leave it at the Hillsides and Canyons Plan policies and not to reference bring Zoning code.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                                      Appendix A

Proposed Language to be added as Appendix D of the Hillsides and Canyons Plan:


The Provo Municipal Council acknowledges and recognizes the existence of City-owned parcels that are outside of Provo
City limits, especially in the Provo, South Fork, and Bunnels Canyon region, which are outside the scope of the Hillsides
and Canyons Plan. A map of these and other City owned properties can be found at the City-Owned Property Outside
Provo Map.

We commit to working collaboratively with relevant stakeholders including neighboring jurisdictions, state and federal
agencies, and local conservation groups to ensure that these properties are preserved for the public in perpetuity and are
managed in a manner that reflects the guiding principles of the Hillsides and Canyons Plan and other goals of the
Municipal Council, including:
   1. Conservation of Environmentally Sensitive Areas: Prioritize the preservation and restoration of natural habitats,
       landforms, and ecological features.
   2. Enhancement of Recreational Opportunities: Encourage the development and maintenance of recreational
       facilities that interact with the natural environment while minimizing impact.
   3. Mitigation of Hazards: Address and manage potential natural hazards such as wildfires, seismic activity, water
       contamination, and soil erosion to ensure public safety.
   4. Water Resource Management: Strategize for responsible water resource infrastructure development for these
       properties, ensuring adequate water supply for current and future residents of Provo City

We call on the governments or agencies that hold land use authority over these properties to develop land use statements
for said properties that align with the spirit of the Hillsides and Canyons Plan’s principles and goals to ensure that the
value of these lands is preserved for current and future generations.




                                                       Page 3 of 3
