                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    December 8, 2021


 ITEM 7*       Community and Neighborhood Services requests a complete revision of the Provo General Plan to guide
               growth and development for the next 10 to 20 years in Provo. Citywide application. Hannah Salzl 801-
               852-6423 hsalzl@provo.org PLGPA20210364



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
December 8, 2021:


                                                   APPROVED
On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Miles Miller
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Ally Jones, Lisa Jensen, Brian Henrie, Daniel Gonzales, Dave Anderson, Peter
Fife, Miles Miller, Laurie Urquiaga
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff’s presentation included the following key points:
    • A brief overview of the General Plan’s purpose and role in city planning,
    • A list of what was and was not included in the General Plan,
    • A list of what changes had been made to the plan since it was last presented to the Planning Commission on
        November 10.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission
 • The Public Works Department had sent a memo with a list of changes and concerns, all of which have been addressed
    in the most recent updates to the General Plan.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.




                                                        Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• No Neighborhood Chairs or other members of the public were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
   • Lack of mention of protections for single-family neighborhoods and
   • Use of the word “equity.”
Both of these concerns have been addressed in the most recent updates to the General Plan.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Laurie Urquiaga had a minor formatting edit that has since been made in the document.
   • Lisa Jensen asked if the concerns raised by Public Works had been addressed, and they had.
   • The Commissioners expressed their thanks to staff and the consultants for their work on the General Plan.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
