                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 22, 2023


 *ITEM 2      Provo City Development Services requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Section 17.03.100
              (Prohibition Against Issuance of Municipal Permits) to add language for administrative approvals.
              Citywide application. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20230048


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
22, 2023:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Jeff Whitlock
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Jeff Whitlock, Lisa Jensen, Raleen Wahlin, Melissa Kendall
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following: None



                                                        Page 1 of 3
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following: The Planning Commission discussed the
proposal, stating it was logical and will be helpful for staff to better enforce city codes. Lisa Jensen also had staff provide
an example of how the language would be applied.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
   City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                         Page 2 of 3
                                                       EXHIBIT A

17.03.100 Prohibition Against Issuance of Municipal Permits and Administrative Approvals.

The City shall withhold business licenses; permits for kennels; anyor permits or approvals for any alteration, repair, or
construction pertaining to any existing or new structures or signs on the property;, or and any permits or approvals
pertaining to the use and development of the real property or the structure where a violation is located. Where a notice
of violation has been issued, the City shall not process any requests or applications, proceed with any review or approval
process, or grant an approval of any type in relation to the property, business, use, or structure with which the violation
is associated. The City shall withhold such permits and approvals until a notice of compliance has been issued by the
Director. The City shall not withhold permits or approvals when necessary to obtain a notice of compliance or to correct
serious health and safety violations.




                                                       Page 3 of 3
