                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 9, 2022


Item 5*        Development Services requests a General Plan Amendment to clarify the existing Westside
               Development Policies and Future Land Use Map with a Southwest Plan Intent Statement. Citywide.
               Hannah Salzl (801) 852-6423 hsalzl@provo.org PLGPA20210242


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of March
9, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the above-noted application.


Motion By: Brian Henrie
Second By: Daniel Gonzales

Votes in Favor of Motion: Miles Miller, Peter Fife, Dave Anderson, Robert Knudsen, Brian Henrie, Daniel Gonzales,
Lisa Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga

Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
• Staff reviewed the history and purpose of the intent statement. They shared a list of changes to the document since it
    was last presented in the Study Session on February 23, including adding an introduction statement, updating the
    graphics, changing all instances of the word “requirements” to “recommendations,” and removing the former Point
    Three about density bonuses. The subject matter of Point Three will be more carefully considered by staff and brought
    as a separate item at a future date.
• Staff shared the input received from members of the development community. They were generally supportive and
    did not see the new policies as burdensome.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• Citywide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• Jonathon Hill, Chair of the Fort Utah Neighborhood, reported that he had shared the new intent statement on the
   neighborhood Facebook page. Those who commented liked the new version better than the original and appreciated
   their input being considered.
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Lisa Jensen pointed out that the less-than sign in the second table was actually a greater-than sign and recommended
   using a combined greater-than-or-equal-to sign for the sake of clarity.
• Laurie Urquiaga and Brian Henrie appreciated that the statement was simple and clear; they thought it could be a
   benefit for the city.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
