                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    August 14, 2024


    ITEM #8*     Jon Jensen requests Concept Plan approval for a 25-acre flex-industrial campus in a proposed AI
                 (Airport Industrial) Zone, located approximately at 3450 West Center Street. Fort Utah
                 Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20240111

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
August 14, 2024:


                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Adam Shin
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Adam Shin, Lisa Jensen, Jonathon Hill, Daniel Gonzales, Melissa Kendall, Barabara DeSoto
Jonathon Hill was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission recommended approval for the related rezone (Item #7 on the August 14th, 2024, agenda).

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff also answered questions from the Planning Commission regarding the future of the Provo
River, possible negative impacts for residential use on the site, and the history of the site and surrounding uses.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 05/15/2024.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
                                                        Page 1 of 2
    •   Christine Halladay (subject property owner) indicated support for the proposal, and that the time to farm the
        property has passed.
    •   Thomas Halladay (subject property owner) gave a brief history of the decisions that have been made for the
        property and gave his support for the proposal.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jon Jensen and Eric Jorgensen presented their proposal and gave an overview of the request. Mr. Jensen indicated
       that the trail with public access is part of a working development agreement and that the plan fits with the General
       Plan. Mr. Jorgensen addressed questions about possible tenants and the number of potential users.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission discussed competing goals in the General Plan and other adopted planning documents and how
       they relate to this proposal. Staff also confirmed that the housing units initially proposed for this property will
       still be able to be built in a different area, so that the city is not necessarily losing housing units because of this
       proposal. The Commission spoke about support for ensuring that the trail against the river is open to the public.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                         Page 2 of 2
