                                   Provo City Planning Commission
                                       Report of Action
                                                August 12, 2020

Item 6   Robert Sunderlage requests Concept Plan approval for a 40-lot, single-family development,
         located at approximately 1164 S 1600 W in a proposed R1.7 Zone. Sunset Neighborhood.
         Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org PLCP20200118


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting
of August 12, 2020:

                                               APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:2, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the above noted application.

Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Ally Jones
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Ally Jones, Brian Henrie, Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, and
Deborah Jensen
Votes against the Motion: Lisa Jensen and Robert Knudsen

Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission approved the related zone map amendment as Item #5*

RECOMMENDED DENSITY
4.3 units/acre

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission
included the following: The applicant is proposing 40 lots. Most of the lots are 9000 SF or larger in area (29 of
the 40 lots). Only about six (6) lots would have an area and/or lot width commensurate with R1.7 zoning. The
14-acre subject property is located in an area that appears to be transitioning to residential use.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
This application has been in process for quite a while and the applicant has worked to try to bring it’s
development plans in harmony with City plans and the Neighborhood’s (Sunset) vision for the area. He spoke
to concerns related to providing sewer to the property and noted that he has identified a solution that he believes
is workable now—raise the property to get depth to lay sewer lines. The applicant spoke to the aesthetics of
raising the development site and asserted that grades would be dealt with in a gradual manner. The raised site
would give opportunities for daylight basements. Homes will front on collector roads (1150 South and 1600
West). Lots would not be accessed from the collector roads, but from the rear.
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
  • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • No comments or questions for this item were received from the public at this meeting.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission approved the concept plan. It appeared that those who voted in favor of this
      application were sympathetic to concerns with narrow roads and challenges to provide sewer to the area,
      but felt the benefits of the development out-weight the costs. Some Commission members expressed
      concerns with the safety of children traveling to and from school on 1600 West.




             Planning Commission Chair




          Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the
Staff Report to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the
record of the decision of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff,
those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following
a public hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council
following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed
by submitting an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the
Development Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of
the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m.).
