                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 14, 2020


 ITEM #4       Evan Child requests a Variance from the Provo City Planning Commission to intrude on 30% slope for
               construction non-habitable accessory structure to accommodate a gym/basketball court, located at 1507 N
               1450 E in the R1.10 zone. Oak Hills Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404
               aardmore@provo.org PLCUP20200315



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 14, 2020:


                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 7:1, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Deborah Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Deborah Jensen, Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Brian Henrie,
Robert Knudsen
Votes Against the Motion: Ally Jones
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following: NONE.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
                                                         Page 1 of 2
    •   Mr. Evans stated that the necessary studies will be completed if the variance is granted and that the building will
        need to retain the uphill slope. He also mentioned that he spoke with his neighbors and that they have no concerns.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Robert Knudsen asked if the plan would require cut and fill and how that would affect the neighboring properties.
   • Lisa Jensen asked details about the plan including setbacks, building type, and if there are concerns of sliding.
   • Brian Henrie stated that the new building may even improve the stability of the property.
   • Laurie Urquiaga wondered about fault lines in the area and hoped that those issues would be explored down the
       line.
   • The Planning Commission felt comfortable with the variance, knowing that necessary geotechnical studies would
       be completed prior to any building.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
