                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    January 17, 2024

 *ITEM 3     Jay Roberts requests approval of a Zone Map Amendment from the SDP1 (Village at Riverwoods SDP
             Overlay) Zone to the SC3 (Regional Shopping Center) Zone in order to construct a new mixed-use office
             and commercial building, located at 4981 N Edgewood Drive. Riverbottoms Neighborhood. Aaron
             Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20230267

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of January
17, 2024:
                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Melissa Kendall
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Melissa Kendall, Jonathon Hill, Raleen Whalin, Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales,
Jeff Whitlock, Andrew South, Barbara DeSoto
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the SC3 Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also approved with conditions the related Project Plan (PLPPA20220393, January 17, 2024
 PC hearing, Item #2)

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*87 total parking stalls provided on site.
*55 additional parking stalls to be provided on adjacent parcel through a parking agreement.

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 08/17/2023.



                                                         Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were not present to address the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Brittany Call sent an email to note her concerns for the project, specifically in regards to the pathway along the
        river being maintained, congestion of the parking lot, and what value would be added to the city by approving the
        rezone.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jay Roberts (representing the owner) detailed issues that kept the building from being south of the AMC movie
       theater, and the owners intent to beautify and improve the area.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission confirmed that all the surrounding SC3 properties were under the same ownership,
       this gave them comfort in allowing a shared parking agreement (in addition to compatible uses with hours for
       parking demand).
   • The Commission inquired about site details and setback from the residential units to the north.
   • The Commission confirmed parking use and details with the applicant to ensure that there will be sufficient
       parking for all users in the Shops at Riverwoods.
   • The Commission believes the new use will be an improvement and is a complimentary use to what exists around
       the site. The project will make use of a underused piece of land with an attractive building.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 West
   Cener St, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
   office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS

                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                                EXHIBIT A

LOT 2, PLAT B, VILLAGE NORTH SUBDV. AREA 1.038 AC.




                                                 Page 3 of 3
