                                  Provo City Planning Commission
                                      Report of Action
                                               February 26, 2020

ITEM # 1        The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests an ordinance amendment to Section
                15.20.090 of the Provo City Code, relating to Parking Lot Landscaping. The request seeks to increase
                the minimum canopy coverage and landscaping arrangement within new parking areas. Citywide
                application. Austin Taylor (801) 852-6423 ataylor@provo.org PLOTA20190433




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 26, 2020


                                              CONTINUED
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to revise the list of approved
trees.

Motion by: Andrew Howard
Second by: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Maria Winden, Robert Knudsen
Maria Winden was present as acting Chair.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission
include the following.
- Large amounts of paved parking area contribute to increased temperatures within the City.
- Increased tree canopy coverage can help to mitigate the effects of increased parking areas.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
One member of the public commented that the diamond-shaped planters may make it difficult for her to park her
large truck in a parking space.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Members of the planning commission liked the idea of increasing the tree canopy to cool parking lots and
surrounding areas. Maria Winden said that shaded parking spots are usually the first to be taken because parking
lots get so hot in the summer. Robert Knudsen raised concern about trees being destroyed by cars if curbing is no
longer required. Lisa Jensen and Laurie Urquiaga said that they don’t like berries, leaves, and tree pollen falling on
their cars and some of the approved trees may shed those things. The commission asked that staff revise the list of
trees.
      Planning Commission Chair




      Director of Community and Neighborhood Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to
    the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this
    item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of
    Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
    an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community and Neighborhood
    Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
    Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).
           BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
