                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      July 13, 2022


*ITEM 2       Brad Mackay requests approval of a General Plan Map Amendment to Appendix C6, in relation to
              adjustments of development standards in the SDP-5 (Villages at Celebration Specific Development Plan
              Overlay) zone. Lakeview North Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
              PLGPA20220207



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of July
13, 2022:
                                                 CONTINUED
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.

Motion By: Daniel Gonzales
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Daniel Gonzales, Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen, Raleen Wahlin, Andrew South, Melissa
Kendall
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission also continued the related Ordinance Text Amendment at the July 13 th hearing (Item #3, file
#PLOTA20220107)

MAP AMENDMENT
The proposed map amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff gave a verbal overview of the staff report and responded to questions from the Planning
Commission.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval with the condition
   that the traffic flow map will need to be updated prior to construction.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.




                                                        Page 1 of 4
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Brad Mackay responded to questions regarding the concerns listed in the staff report. He stated that he is happy
       to revise his proposal to address the concerns of Planning staff and the Planning Commission.
   • In regard to the open space elements on the proposed map, Mr. Mackay stated that the same open space is still
       planned, if not more, and could overlay that on the new proposed General Plan Appendix.
   • Mr. Mackay also responded to questions regarding other landowners within the map area, that villages 3 and 5 on
       the proposed map are owned by other parties but will still be bound by the zone code as they are now. He also
       mentioned that the majority of villages one and two are already built.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Robert Knudsen asked the applicant why the open spaces shown on the existing General Plan Appendix C6 map
       were not carried over to the proposed new map.
   • The Planning Commission discussed and agreed that the open spaces are important elements to show on the new
       map and should be revised to do so.
   • The Commission discussed the different villages ownership and progress. There was some concern that the areas
       owned by others on the map would be bound by the applicants proposal, but were satisfied that has already been
       the case since 2008 and that they would still have options of their own for text or map amendments.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
   • That the proposed changes to the map to show the open space occur and be brought back to the Planning
       Commission for approval.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.




                                                      Page 2 of 4
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 4
EXHIBIT A




Page 4 of 4
