                                         Provo City Planning Commission
                                             Report of Action
                                                        May 27, 2020


Item 1        QRVE Investments LLC requests a Conditional Use Permit for a private school, located at 890 E Quail Valley
              Drive in the Professional Office (PO) zone. Edgemont neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414
              dwright@provo.org PLCUP20200119




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of May
27, 2020:


                                  APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
   1. Provisions in 14.34.520 of the Provo City Code shall be continually complied with;
   2. Any future expansion of grades taught or number of rooms that would impact parking will need a new parking
       plan to be approved by the City.

Motion By: Andrew Howard
Second By: Dave Anderson
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Dave Anderson, Deborah Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Robert
Knudsen
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 •       Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
         changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and
         determination.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
 conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission
 included the following:

 •       Proposed land use for a private school is now listed as a conditional use in the PO zone following a text
         amendment earlier this year.
 •       Parking on-site meets the parking requirements for the use and has adequate queuing space for student drop-off
         and pick-up.
 •       Future building expansion or addition of grades taught would require a new parking plan to be approved as that
         would increase the parking requirements.
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• Received approval from CRC.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• No comment was received from the public.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The applicant stated that he originally was going to put housing on this site and that was not received well by many
   neighbors. With the school being proposed, the applicant felt that the neighbors were much happier.
• The school has a ten year lease of the property and additional vacant land that can be used for additional parking or
   playground.
• There are comparable uses next to this use and the school fits in well.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• The private school would function very similarly to a charter school that would have been approved as a permitted
   use.
• Many neighborhood meetings have been held in the past about the use of this property; the neighborhood chair did
   not hold a meeting for this CUP application.
• If there are plans to grow in the future, there is an area that is vacant that would be used.
• There is a gate that is open during the drop-off and pick-up to allow to vehicles to turn around; this is managed by
   the school.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item.
    Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
    City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
