                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  December 11, 2024

    ITEM 1*    Jeff Knighton requests Ordinance Text Amendments to Sections 14.21A.070 (Building Height) and
               14.21A.090 (Minimum and Average Residential Unit Size) to adjust standards in the DT1 (General
               Downtown) Zone. Citywide Application. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
               PLOTA20240308


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
December 11, 2024:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application
with the following recommendations.

Recommendations of Approval:
1. That the language includes stronger protections around owner-occupancy beyond the initial sale of units.

Motion By: Adam Shin
Second By: Barbara DeSoto
Votes in Favor of Motion: Anne Allen, Andrew South, Melissa Kendall, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Barbara DeSoto,
Adam Shin
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff also responded to questions regarding downtown zones standards, building heights, and
definitions of for-sale housing. Staff agreed that stronger language to address a one-year owner-occupancy requirement
to the proposal would be a beneficial addition to the proposal.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• Neighborhood meetings were held on November 11th and 20th, 2024 for Districts four and five, respectively.




                                                        Page 1 of 4
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jeff Knighton gave additional context for the proposal and stated that the ideas of increased owner-occupancy
       regulations discussed by the Commission would not be an issue and would be acceptable to the applicant.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission agreed that the proposal was a good idea and could be an effective tool to get more
       ownership downtown.
   • The majority of the Commission stated their support for higher building height allowances through both
       downtown zones and expressed interest in having future discussions with staff on building heights.
   • The need for increased language and standards for owner-occupancy was discussed and included in the motion
       to recommend approval to the City Council.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 4
                                                    Exhibit A

14.21A.070 Building Height.

Except as otherwise provided in Section 14.21A.080, Provo City Code, building height, measured from the top
of the street curb, isshall be determined by the following standards:


                                (1) Total Maximum Building         100 feet*
                                Height:


                                (2) Minimum Number of              2 stories
                                Building Stories:


                                (3) Maximum Parapet/Cornice        5 feet
                                Height:


                                (4) Commercial.


                                (a) Maximum Main Floor             1 foot above
                                Elevation:                         curb


                                (b) Minimum First Story Height:


                                (i) One Story Buildings:           12 feet floor
                                                                   to ceiling


                                (ii) Two or More Story Buildings: 14 feet floor
                                                                   to ceiling


                                (c) Maximum First Story Height:    20 feet floor
                                                                   to ceiling


                                (d) Maximum Upper Story            14 feet
                                Height:




                                                     Page 3 of 4
                                   (5) Residential.


                                   (a) Maximum Main Floor                  3 feet above
                                   Elevation:                              curb


                                   (b) Minimum First Story Height:         10 feet floor
                                                                           to ceiling


                                   (c) Maximum Story Height:               14 feet


(6) Roof mounted mechanical equipment isshall be permitted so long as it is completely screened behind an
architectural feature of the primary structure.

(7) Section 14.34.090, Provo City Code, Height Limitations and Exceptions, mustshall be adhered to within the
DT1 zone.

*Building Height may exceed 100 feet with the following percentages of units guaranteed by means of a
written agreement with the City as for-sale housing with individual owner-occupancy required for the first year
of ownership in a residential project:

        10-20% for sale housing:         up to 120 feet
        21-30% for sale housing:         up to 140 feet
        31-40% for sale housing:         up to 160 feet
        41% and above:                   up to 180 feet
...



14.21A.090 Minimum and Average Residential Unit Size.

(1) Except as provided in Subsection (2) of this Section, each development that includes a residential use
mustshall provide a minimum unit size of no less than five hundred (500) square feet and a minimum average
unit size of no less than eight hundred (800) square feet. This requirement doesshall not apply to institutional
housing units (i.e., elderly housing, assisted living facilities, etc.).

(2) Mixed-use developments with ground floor commercial fronting Center Street or University Ave mustshall
provide a minimum residential unit size of no less than five hundred (500) square feet and a minimum
average unit size of no less than six hundred (600) square feet.




                                                        Page 4 of 4
