                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 14, 2020


 *ITEM #7      Ryan Livingston requests a Zone Change from R1.10 to Low Density Residential (LDR) for
               approximately 1.7 acres, located at 1320 S 1080 E to accommodate single-family and twin homes.
               Spring Creek Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20200319



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 14, 2020:
                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales,
Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
      Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the LDR Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 10/03/2020.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following: None.
                                                        Page 1 of 2
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Gordon Livingston described the architecture of the future units and stated he can revise the site plan to address
       concerns with the north units facing a wall.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Brian Henrie asked if there would be access to the property to the north and confirmed that the open spaces would
       be maintained by an HOA.
   • Dave Anderson stated concerns with the twin-homes facing a wall to the north, stated the zone is a good fit for
       the property but would like more detail on the concept.
   • Lisa Jensen addressed the PC that they would see more detail at Project Plan approval stage and that the LDR
       zone makes sense. She confirmed that the roads, garbage and maintenance would be done by an HOA. She would
       like to see a more pedestrian friendly design through the project.
   • Laurie Urquiaga said she would like to see elevations and more detail with the concept but likes the open spaces
       shown on the site plan.
   • Deborah Jensen appreciated the variety of housing being offered to this area of the City and thinks that the housing
       types are a need missing element in Provo.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
   • The Planning Commission wanted more details of the buildings and a revised site plan to feel comfortable moving
       forward with the zone change.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS

                                                       Page 2 of 2
