                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    January 08, 2025

    ITEM 4   Chase Freebairn requests Concept Plan approval to construct and sell 32 townhome units in a proposed
             MDR (Medium Density Residential) Zone , located 1122 South 900 East. Spring Creek Neighborhood.
             Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLCP20240192


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
January 08, 2025:
                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Anne Black
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew South, Anne Black, Barbara DeSoto, Jonathon Hill, Melissa Kendall, Adam Shin, Jeff
Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen
Votes Opposed to the Motion: None
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•     New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
      Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
Item 3, Planning Commission January 8th, 2025, PLRZ20240193

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
•  32 Total Units
•  Type of occupancy approved: Family

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
•  72 Total parking stalls required
•  73 Total parking stalls provided
•  2.25 Required parking stalls per unit

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 07/31/2024.

                                                        Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• A neighbor was in support of this project.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The applicant discussed the proposed development agreement and that they have recently revised it from 50 percent
   to 35 percent of units being allowed to be rented within the development with a deed restriction.
• The proposed development would be closer to the LDR zone than the MDR zone. The development agreement would
   limit the density to 20 units per acre. This is more than the 12 allowed in the LDR but is less than the 30 allowed in
   the MDR.
• The applicant tried to find out what staff needed to see for how many units should be for sale. Staff directed to ask
   the Planning Commission and City Council because a number has not been established, but that it is a goal of the city.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• It is nice to see a developer come with an offer to deed restrict some of the units from being rented.
• Being next to the railroad is not the best location but would possibly keep units more affordable.
• The current renter/owner split is 60/40. To reach the city’s goal of 50/50, new developments are going to need to be
   less than 50% renter occupied.
• The deed restriction and the HOA would be the tools used restrict the number of units being rented at any one time.
• The Planning Commission discussed what the right percentage would be. It is challenging and may need to be
   evaluated each time, but two-thirds seemed like a reasonable number.
• Commissioner Gonzales felt that there needed to be more time (3-5 years) before a buyer could rent their unit. If it is
   a short period of time, then they may just simply wait until that time is over and then rent it out.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
• The staff report did not recommend approval because they did not recommend approval of the rezone request. The
   Planning Commission found that the rezone would be appropriate because the applicant is proffering a development
   agreement that would limit the density and would deed restrict the number of units within the project that could be
   rented at any given time to 35% and that this would help towards meeting the goal of more owner occupancy.




               Planning Commission Chair



            Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.


                                                      Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
