                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    February 12, 2025

 ITEM 1      Provo Development Services requests a Conditional Use Permit Revocation of PLCUP20190309 for a
             dance hall in the CG (General Commercial) zone, located at 1700 N State Street. Carterville Neighborhood.
             Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.gov


The following actions were taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 12th, 2025:

             CONDITIONAL USE PERMIT REVOKED / MODIFIED
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission voted to grant the revocation of a conditional use permit (PLCUP20190309)
 for a dance hall on parcel #19:064:0027.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Melissa Kendall
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew South, Melissa Kendall, Jeff Whitlock, Adam Shin, Barbara DeSoto, Jonathon Hill
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.
 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

Additionally, on a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission voted to approve a modified conditional use permit
(PLCUP20190309) for an event center on parcel #19:064:0027, with the following conditions:
        1. A copy of a shared parking agreement from the property owner is provided to staff for the 151 parking stalls
           to be shared out of the 219 stalls;
        2. Requirements and Standards in 14.34.250 shall be followed;
        3. That the hours of operation are followed per 6.15.060;
        4. Without an approved grease trap, no on-site cooking is allowed; food warming only; and
        5. That the only business that shall operate on the conditional use permit is Enigma Events LLP.
Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Adam Shin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Adam Shin, Jeff Whitlock, Andrew South, Barbara DeSoto, Jonathon Hill
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. After an overview of the staff report from planning staff, Provo Police Department gave additional
background and updates on Police calls to the site associated with the dance hall and responded to questions from the
Commission.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
                                                        Page 1 of 3
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
     • Luis Castro (owner of Afuego Fridays) shared his thoughts about the ability to control what happens in the parking
         lot or when people are leaving his events. He wants to create a safe and clean establishment for the youth in the
         area and stated there are no issues in the dance hall, but only outside. He noted that his business opened past 1am
         due to a lack of patrons when he tried to close earlier.
     • David Alders shared he has noticed an increase in noise and nuisance activities since the Afuego Fridays opened
         at this location.
     • Kristen Kramer shared feedback from the neighborhood page regarding concerns about loud music and noise
         from the establishment; as well as one comment from a patron of the dance hall that enjoys it and wants it to stay.
         She then shared her thoughts, stating concern that a lot of police resources are having to address issues with
         Afuego Fridays, and the amount of DUIs that come from the business.
     • Victor Ortega (security for Afuego Fridays) shared his experience of breaking up fights outside of the dance hall,
         and the reasons why they have handcuffed minors in these situations.
     • Kweku Hill shared his thoughts about Afuego Fridays being a clean and safe space for dancing, and concerns
         about what will happen if the dance hall is shut down.
     • Augustine Alberita shared his experiences at Afuego Fridays and concerns for the city if the business is shut
         down. He doesn’t believe they are being treated fairly.
     • Emily Mackley shared her experience of attending Afuego Fridays, stating that it is a safe venue and would be
         sad to lose it.
     • Mauricio shared his belief that Afuego Fridays is a safe place, that the owner insists on providing a safe place,
         and that there are no other similar venues.
     • Camilo Solazo does marketing for Afuego Fridays and noted the owner insists on a clean establishment, and that
         no other latin dance clubs are available nearby.
     • Angie Lopez shared her experience at Afuego Fridays, noting that it is a safe place and that the issues stated by
         the city are not anything that the owner can control.
     • Staff noted the emails sent to Planning Commission from Hillary David and Robert Hammond, supporting the
         revocation of the CUP, and read in another letter of support from Sarah Asay.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
    • Officer Hutchinson responded to questions from the Commission regarding the nature of the calls and ties to the
        Afuego Fridays business, he also clarified that the history of issues related to the business have drawn more
        intense patrolling to that business.
    • Planning Staff clarified what standards the conditional use is held to and reminded the Commission that the
        parking lot control was brought up in past hearings with direct motions to the business owner to maintain safety
        in the parking lot.
    • Planning Staff gave input to the Planning Commission on ways to revoke or modify the conditional use permit to
        disallow Afuego Fridays from operating at this location but keep Enigma from having to start a new conditional
        use permit process and maintain their events.

 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
    • The Commission asked questions regarding the use and how many of the police calls are directly tied to the use,
        asked PD to clarify some of the statistics presented, and shared concerns that the PD may be focused on this dance
        hall more than others in the city.
    • The Planning Commission verified that there is not any concern with Enigma Events at the same location and
        identified that there should be efforts made to maintain that business license and conditional use.



                                                        Page 2 of 3
    •   Barbara DeSoto shared her thoughts that the call numbers may be skewed because PD pays more attention to this
        business, and that some of what she heard is questionable. However, under the city standards for CUP, there is
        reason to revoke the CUP. There may be a better location for the club.
    •   Planning Commission clarified with staff on what code standards are not being met and explained conditional use
        regulations and process. The decision is not whether it is a good venue, but whether the conditions established
        have been met or not.
    •   The Commission noted that there is a history of violations of the conditions and that explicit direction to the
        owner on how to resolve these issues has not been acted upon, and in the end the conditions have not been met.
    •   The Commission discussed options for approving a conditional use permit for Enigma Events, including asking
        the Enigma Event business owners and staff for direction.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
   • That Afuego Fridays has violated the conditions of their conditional use permit and should be revoked, but that a
       conditional use permit for Enigma Events should be maintained.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
