                                     Provo City Planning Commission
                                         Report of Action
                                                 November 18, 2020


Item 2         Jake Black request Concept Plan approval for a residential subdivision in a proposed R1.8 zone, located at
               35 S 2530 W. Provo Bay Neighborhood. Dustin Wright 801-852-6414 dwright@provo.org
               PLCP20200157




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 18, 2020:


                              APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended approved the above noted application, with the following
 conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
    1. Rezone application PLRZ202000156 is approved by the Municipal Council;
    2. CRC final approval is given.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Debora Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Debora Jensen, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Dave Anderson,
Brian Henrie
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •   Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
     changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and
     determination.


RELATED ACTIONS
PLRZ20200156 Planning Commission Item 1 November 18, 2020

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) is reviewing the application.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.

                                                      Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
 • No comments were made from the public.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
 • The existing homes will be rented until the last phase of the subdivision.
 • All the existing homes will be removed at final buildout of the subdivision.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
 • The zone and subdivision fit well and are appropriate in the neighborhood.
 • The connectivity of the subdivision with the surrounding neighborhood is important.
 • There are other grocery stores that fit on this size of property. This property is on the corner of what may become a
    busy intersection that will attract commercial interest.
 • This project and zone fit within the General Plan and Southwest Area Plan.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

 See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff
     Report to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the
     decision of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted
     in this Report of Action.

 Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a
    public hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following
    a public hearing.
 Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by
    submitting an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and
    Neighborhood Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the
    Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                                      Page 2 of 2
