                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      April 28, 2021


 *ITEM 1        Brittany Johnson requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to add cannabis production as a permitted or
                conditional use in the Freeway Commercial (FC1) zone. Citywide Application. Aaron Ardmore (801)
                852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20210000262



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of April
28, 2021:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 7:1, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

 Conditions of Approval: That the amendment is the proposed language recommended proposed by staff.

Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Daniel Gonzales
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Daniel Gonzales, Dave Anderson, Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Robert
Knudsen, Brian Henrie
Votes Against the Motion: Lisa Jensen
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.




                                                        Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: There was no public comment.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jarman Montgomery represented the applicant and gave background and reasoning for the application.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission asked some general questions to staff and the applicant regarding the zone regulations
       and neighborhood response. There was an overall feeling that the distribution of cannabis was more of a concern
       than the production, but that was not what was being reviewed in the hearing.
   • Lisa Jensen stated her concerns that cannabis does not help economic development based on her experience in
       other States.
   • Deborah Jensen noted that there is a difference between recreational cannabis in different States and medical
       cannabis in Utah, and that she sees no concerns with the use here in Provo. Ally Jones agreed with this and thought
       it could be an economic development plus for the City.
   • The Commission discussed the options of permitted use versus conditional use for production and distribution of
       cannabis in the future, but in the end agreed with the findings of the staff report.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                           EXHIBIT A


SECTION 14.20A.020(6) Conditional Uses

2830 Drugs (cannabis production establishments only) only when the establishment is an accessory
ancillary and adjacent to a cannabis distribution facility.




                                           Page 3 of 3
