                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                       June 24, 2020


 *ITEM 2       Daniel La Fontaine requests a Zone Change from R1.10 to Low Density Residential for 1.07 acres for a
               townhome development, located at 50 E 3900 N. Riverbottoms Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-
               6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20190265




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of June
24, 2020:


                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Dave Anderson
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Dave Anderson, Deborah Jensen, Russ Phillips, Laurie Urquiaga, Maria Winden,
Robert Knudsen
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 RELATED ACTIONS
 The related concept plan (PLCP20190266), item 3 on the agenda, was also continued.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Staff gave a brief presentation on the changes the applicant had made since the last Planning Commission
 hearing, and explained the staff recommendation.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 03/25/2020.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties addressed the Planning Commission.
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • The Planning Commission and Planning staff received numerous emails prior to the hearing in opposition to the
        zone change, and three in favor of the zone change. The main issues addressed in the opposition emails included
        too many units, not enough green space, design concerns, and traffic issues.
    • Dave Rosen addressed the Commission stating his desire for detached, single family homes on the property.
    • Dave Horne shared his concerns regarding the design and stated he would prefer the new VLDR (very low density
        residential) zone.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • In response to initial questions about the possibility of a Development Agreement, Mr. La Fontaine said he is
       open to the idea of such an agreement.
   • Mr. La Fontaine related to the Commission that he met with staff after the last hearing to help reduce the number
       of units on the property and try to address design concerns expressed at that meeting. He believes that the LDR
       zone provides consistency along University Avenue, similar to the north and south of his property.
   • In response to questions about further reducing the unit count, Mr. La Fontaine stated that ten units is the least he
       can reduce his plan to.
   • As design concerns were raised by the Commission, Mr. La Fontaine stated that he is open to dressing up the
       architecture and look at different layouts.
   • Mr. La Fontaine related that the current concept has 3.500 square feet units.
   • In response to design suggestions, Mr. La Fontaine stated his willingness to alter design to have more doors to
       the street; specifically facing units #1 and #8 toward 3900 North.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Dave Anderson asked the applicant if he would be willing to enter into a development agreement.
   • Deborah Jensen asked the applicant if the new VLDR zone would work for the property.
   • Parking for the project was discussed and found to meet code.
   • Design element concerns of the alley to the garages and units not facing the street were raised by the Commission.
   • The commission members agreed that different treatments in the architecture can help the project, but the
       renderings shown do not provide the look deemed appropriate for the neighborhood.
   • The majority of the Commission agreed that the LDR zone seems like a good fit for the property, but that revisions
       in the site design and architecture are needed for the application to progress.
   • Design ideas were brought forward by Commission members including:
            o Separating the four-unit products to two- or three-unit products,
            o Creating a mansion home design with multiple units in one building,
            o Facing more units to 3900 north and adjusting access into the property, and
            o Using architecture features and colors to break up the mass of the structures.
FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:

The zone is appropriate for the property, but the design needs work before the Commission feels comfortable forwarding
a recommendation to the City Council. The finding was that the concept plan layout needs to be more conducive to the
style of the neighborhood.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
