                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     January 27, 2021


 *ITEM 5       DR Horton requests a Zone Change from A1.5 and Residential Agriculture (RA) to Low Density
               Residential and General Commercial for 55.48 acres, located at 1562 S 1100 W. Lakewood and Sunset
               Neighborhoods. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20200394


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of January
27, 2021:
                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to a date uncertain.

Motion By: Brian Henrie
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Brian Henrie, Ally Jones, Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
      Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
 Planning Commission also continued the related Concept Plan, Item 4, at the January 27th Hearing.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.
 • Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 01/14/2021.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • Multiple Neighborhood Chair(s) were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
     • Jonathon Hill raised awareness of the importance of the Southwest Future Land Use Map and commented on the
         importance of following that plan with Dry Creek trail and density. He also stated that he would prefer open space
         and open fences along the trail if homes are put against it.

                                                        Page 1 of 2
    •   Becky Bogdin stated her preference to sticking to the General Plan for the area and how she would like to see a
        trail along Dry Creek. She also stated she likes putting the density along Lakeview Parkway.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Krisel Travis responded to staff concerns addressed in the Staff Report and presentation and to Planning
       Commission questions regarding proposed density, utility connections, and site layout. She stated she would like
       the proposals continued so she can try to work on the issues raised at the hearing and by staff.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Dave Anderson shared his thoughts that the proposal is not ready for a decision, and more time needs to be given
       to work on the plan to address major concerns. He likes some aspects of the plan but can see that there are concerns
       that need to be worked out.
   • Lisa Jensen agreed with Mr. Anderson and would like to see a plan that can meet the codes.
   • Laurie Urquiaga understands why staff would want to bring items to hearings rather than going through multiple
       reviews but feels like in this case the plan has not come far enough and can be improved with some more time to
       address the major concerns of the City.
   • There was a lot of discussion regarding the value and regulations of the Southwest Future Land Use Map,
       culminating in the thought that proposals need to be consistent with the standards developed in the southwest
       planning efforts. It was also noted that the main reason for the density maximum of four units per acre net was
       driven mostly by Public Works infrastructure. The Planning Commission believes that after a density reduction
       the plan has value and should be given more time for the applicant to work on revisions.
   • Planning Commission wanted to see the mix of housing types and the commercial corner stay in future revisions,
       but would like to see the open space, connectivity, and access to dry creek improved; as well as the housing types
       improved, specifically the front-loaded townhomes.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
   • More time needs to be given to the applicant and staff to try to find solutions for the major concerns with density,
       open space, and utility connections.




                Planning Commission Chair

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
    an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
    Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
    Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS


                                                       Page 2 of 2
