                                         Provo City Planning Commission
                                              Report of Action
                                                        August 12, 2020


 ITEM 1*           The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Provo
                   City Code Section 14.50(9).020(d), relating to accessory dwellings as a permitted accessory use in the PRO-
                   R-9 LDR zone. Citywide Application. Austin Taylor (801) 852-6423 ataylor@provo.org PLOTA20200162



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of August
12, 2020:


                                       RECOMMEND APPROVAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen, Deborah Jensen, Lisa Jensen,
Laurie Urquiaga, Ally Jones
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 •       Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
         noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following:

     -     The amendment is applicable only to the subject PRO Zone area.
     -     The amendment provides clarification to the text of the zone and reduces inconsistencies.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • No public comment was received during or prior to the Planning Commission meeting.

 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   - Planning Commission members felt the amendment was straight forward and helped to add clarity to the text.
                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
