                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     August 28, 2024

  ITEM #3      Ryan McCoard requests Project Plan approval for two new flex industrial warehouses in the AI
               (Airport Industrial) Zone, located at 3155 West Center Street. Provo Bay Neighborhood. Mary Barnes
               (801) 852-6408 mabarnes@provo.org PLPPA20240015


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of
August 28, 2024:
                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
On a vote of 7:0 the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

Conditions of Approval:
  1. That a final subdivision plat is approved and recorded;
  2. A flat roof is permitted after Planning Commission review; and
  3. That Public Works evaluate a sidewalk along Lakeview Parkway.


Includes facts of the case, analysis, and conclusions outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes noted. Administrative
Hearing Officer determination is consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
Design Review Committee recommended approval on this item on August 22, 2024.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
Standard Land Use Code 6370 - Warehousing

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
236 Total parking stalls required (97 for office, 139 for warehouse).
237 Total parking stalls provided, including 7 ADA parking stalls.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
- A neighborhood meeting was not held.
- The Neighborhood District Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during the
public hearing included the following:
 - Quinn Peterson, Design Review Committee and citizen of Provo. This application came before the DRC last week,
    and we are happy with how the design corridor standards have been implemented on this site.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
- Lakeview Parkway chopped off the subject property from the rest of the applicant’s property. This isolated the subject
    property, necessitating these warehouses.
- The traffic circulation shown in the site plan was engineered and accepted by the Provo City engineering department.
- This space is not meant to be heavy industrial warehouses, it is going to be a flex space for all types of businesses.
    Not anticipating heavy uses, the uses will be geared towards e-commerce, or lighter industrial use.
- There is considerable landscaping on this site.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   - The sidewalk along Lakeview Parkway was omitted on the landscaping plan. It was decided to add a condition of
       approval to ask the engineering department to review the sidewalk and possibly require the sidewalk on the final
       project plan.
   - A concern was brought up regarding traffic circulation for semi-trucks around the site.
   - Commissioner Jensen requested clarification on the flat roof condition of approval. The design corridor code states
       that flat roofs with decorative front parapet walls may be permitted upon review of the Planning Commission and
       Design Review Committee. The DRC approved this project with a condition of approval allowing a flat roof. The
       Planning Commission agreed that a flat roof was acceptable for this project.
   - The commission agreed that the amount of landscaping helps to buffer the surrounding residential and agricultural
       properties.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where the findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions may be appealed by submitting an application/notice of appeal, with the required application
   and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 445 West Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen
   (14) calendar days of the Hearing Officer's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00
   a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
