                                    Provo City Planning Commission
                                         Report of Action
                                                 September 23, 2020

*Item 1       The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Chapter
              15.06 of the Provo City Code, relating to condominiums. Citywide application. Robert Mills (801) 852-6407
              rmills@provo.org PLOTA20200228




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 23, 2020:


          RECOMMEND APPROVAL WITH REVISED LANGUAGE
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application

Motion by: Deborah Jensen
Second by: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Deborah Jensen, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzalez, Brian Henrie
Laurie Urquiaga was present as acting Chair.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission include the following.

-   This amendment streamlines the process of condominium development and conversions, making it quicker and easier
    to develop.
-   Condominium projects would still go through the Planning Commission for project approval, but the plats would no
    longer be reviewed by the Planning Commission

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
- No comments from the public

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
- None

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
- Lisa Jensen and Robert Knudsen asked about how the approval process for condominiums would change for the
  planning commission. They would no longer need to review plats for plat approval, but would still review projects as
  a whole for project approval.
- Laurie Urquiaga said that taking administrative tasks away from the Planning Commission is a great thing for speeding
  up the development process.
- Deborah Jensen said that the amendment would streamline the process for condominium development and
  conversions and would help Provo City achieve its goals of increasing access to affordable owner-occupied housing.
                                                    Planning Commission Chair




                                                 Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item.
    Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
