                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                      May 13, 2020


 ITEM 3         Mykel Davis requests Project Plan approval for a four-story School of Music building (171,000 sf), located
                at approximately 800 E 1060 N in the Public Facilities (PF) zone. University Neighborhood. Aaron
                Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPPA20200056




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of May
13, 2020:


                                                 CONTINUED
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.


Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Andrew Howard, Deborah Jensen, Maria Winden, Russ Phillips
(Laurie Urquiaga abstained)
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

•    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission; Planning Commission determination is
     not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following: Staff gave an overview of the proposal, including an analysis of the Transportation Demand Management
program and proposed parking.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• This project is still going through review from the Coordinator Review Committee.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 03/12/2020 with the Wasatch and Foothills neighborhoods.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • David Acheson (Wasatch Neighborhood Chair) stated several concerns with the proposed building due to parking
        related issues. He stated the neighborhood is concerned that parking will spill onto the neighborhood streets, that
        events are not accounted for in the parking plan, and that a new UVX stop would not be received favorably by
        the Wasatch residents.
    • Paul Evans stated concerns with the parking counts for the proposed building, that event attendees will have to
        cross streets to the building; and suggested that a new UVX stop could be helpful.
    • Pam Jones expressed concerns with the building due to spillover parking in the tree streets.
    • Lucinda Camp asked why the applicant is not proposing a parking structure on campus.
    • Mikah Wheatley stated he likes the alternatives in the BYU plan to building more surface parking.
    • Tessa Santiago believed that the parking plan was not considering other events on campus using open stalls.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Eric Davis presented first and introduced the project, stating that the primary use is for classrooms; that events
       are a secondary use for the building. He stated that performance schedules will be managed to not conflict with
       other campus events. Ticket holders are given maps to help them find the available parking and route to the music
       events. The TDM is provided to show a complete system for parking that can meet peak demands.
   • Ryan Hales presented the content of the Transportation Demand Management Program (TDMP). The campus has
       more than sufficient parking for the number of vehicle trips. BYU uses several strategies to reduce parking
       demand including UVX, shuttles, active transportation, and on-campus housing.
   • Ray Bernier responded to questions from the Planning Commission and the public. He detailed the parking
       adjacent to the proposed building, the three drop-off zones around the building, and the messaging efforts made
       by BYU to handle parking on events. He stated that recent data on parking is not available, but that they are
       interested in continuing data collection and research on parking numbers and strategies. Some strategies could
       include parking wayfinding signs on campus, valet parking for events, and adding parking south of the proposed
       music building. He stated that there are signals and crosswalks for pedestrian safety as they walk to events. Mr.
       Bernier also gave background on the years of planning for the new music building, looking at other locations on
       campus, and how the proposal is the best option.
   • Lance Shields described that uses were moving from an old building to a new building, so increased parking
       should not be of much as a concern as access to that parking.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Deborah Jensen asked if comparable code standards were applied, what the requirement for the building would
       be. Staff responded with a comparable standard from 14.37.060 for amusement halls, which would require 855
       stalls.
   • The Commission shared concerns regarding the proximity and access of the parking stalls available on campus
       in relation to the music building for events. Several stated concerns that the elderly people that attend need close
       parking.
   • Russ Phillips wondered how BYU will keep event attendees from parking in the neighborhood streets east of 900
       East.
   • Lisa Jensen and Dave Anderson both stated that they believe available parking is not adequate for performances
       at the music building, specifically those in close proximity to the building.
   • Questions were asked of the applicant regarding data on parking during events, wayfinding signage, options for
       UVX stop on 900 East, and where the parking removed for the project will be relocated.
    •    Some Commission members liked the idea of a parking structure to deal with the concerns, that the TDMP was a
         good study, but does not show specific strategies for the proposed building and its uses. They like the proposed
         design and intent of the building, but feel that the parking strategies shown are insufficient.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
   • That the applicant needs to come back with more specific parking management options and strategies to address
       concerns of parking for events at the proposed building.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
