                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   November 11, 2020


 *Item 8       R. Jay Henrie requests a Zone Change from Residential Conservation (RC) to Very Low Density
               Residential (VLDR) for property located at 590 W 300 S. Franklin Neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801)
               852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLRZ20200287



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 11, 2020:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 4:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Daniel Gonzales
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Dave Anderson
Abstain: Brian Henrie
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the VLDR Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on Facebook.




                                                        Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• No public comments were made at the hearing.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• This property is very unique and would fit in better with the neighborhood if it is rezoned and the shop is taken down.
• With the shop removed, the side of the 1874 home will need some work done on it, but it was all built prior to the
   1949 shop addition so it is all still intact.
• The plan is to build a duplex and maintain ownership. The duplex will fit in with the neighborhood better. The
   applicant will continue to live in the existing home on the other lot and maintain both properties.


PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• The proposal is a nice fit in the neighborhood.
• A concept plan would have been nice to have to be able to see exactly what the new duplex would look like and the
   type of architecture.
• Garages would look best if side-loaded instead of both facing the street. Most homes in the area do not have forward
   facing garages so the duplex would fit better if it follows this in the design layout.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                                       Page 2 of 3
Exhibit A




Page 3 of 3
