                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    February 10, 2021


 *Item 7       The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests a Zone Change from the A1.20 Agricultural
               zone to the Freeway Commercial Two (FC-2) Zone for approximately 75 acres, located at approximately 500
               W Lakeview Parkway. Lakewood Neighborhood. Melissa McNalley (801) 852-6164 mmcnalley@provo.org
               PLRZ20210025


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 10, 2021:


                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission continued the item to allow for further information.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Brian Henrie
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Dan Gonzales, Ally Jones, Russell Phillips, David Knudsen,
Deborah Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga, and Brian Henrie
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 STAFF/APPLICANT PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following:
    • A zone change from agricultural to FC-2 is proposed on two parcels in the Lakewood neighborhood just north and
        south of Lakeview Parkway.
    • The future land use map for the southwest area of Provo designates these parcels as Commercial with a space for
        LDR in between the proposed commercial and existing residential zone.
    • The proposed changes to the FC-2 (Freeway Commercial Zone) were written specifically with the Lakewood
        Neighborhood in mind.
    • Specific parcels pertinent to the zone change were presented to the planning commission.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • Comments from Becky Bogdin, the Lakewood neighborhood chair: The neighborhood does not care to have LDR
     or any residential between the neighborhood and FC-2 Zone. There is neighborhood concern over the parcel south
     of Lakeview Parkway being developed as the neighborhood was told there would be no development there.
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
  • Ally Jones expressed concern over the success of the businesses that may move into this zone as East Bay has
      plenty of business that has struggled over recent years.
  • Lisa Jensen feels this is a general plan amendment that should happen and would like to see this item continued.




                 Planning Commission Chair




       Director of Development Services Department

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West
    100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office
    hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).
             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
EXHIBIT 1 – CURRENT ZONING
EXHIBIT 2- PROPOSED ZONING
