                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      April 28, 2021

 *Item 8        The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests a Zone Change from the A1.20
                Agricultural zone to the Freeway Commercial Two (FC-2) Zone for approximately 75 acres, located at
                approximately 500 W Lakeview Parkway. Lakewood Neighborhood. Melissa McNalley (801) 852-6164
                mmcnalley@provo.org PLRZ20210025


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of April
28, 2021:


                                     RECOMMEND APPROVAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended the Municipal Council approve the above zone change.


Motion By: Brian Henrie
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Dan Gonzales, Ally Jones, David Knudsen, Deborah Jensen,
Laurie Urquiaga, and Brian Henrie
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 STAFF/APPLICANT PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following:
    • A zone change from agricultural to FC-2 is proposed on two parcels in the Lakewood neighborhood just north and
        south of Lakeview Parkway.
    • The future land use map for the southwest area of Provo designates these parcels as Commercial with a space for
        LDR in between the proposed commercial and existing residential zone.
    • The proposed changes to the FC-2 (Freeway Commercial Zone) were written specifically with the Lakewood
        Neighborhood in mind.
    • Specific parcels pertinent to the zone change were presented to the planning commission.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • Comments from Becky Bogdin, the Lakewood neighborhood chair: The neighborhood appreciates the efforts of
     staff to be mindful of the neighborhood and neighborhood desires while crafting these zone changes. She also
     expressed her desire that the City and staff be mindful of the 65-foot set-back requirements abutting the
     neighborhood and not change those requirements in the future.

 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioner Jensen stated with this zoning this area will be better defined and may encourage more serious
       development offers.
                 Planning Commission Chair




       Director of Development Services Department

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West
    100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office
    hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
EXHIBIT 1 – CURRENT ZONING
EXHIBIT 2- PROPOSED ZONING
