                                        Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    February 9, 2022


 ITEM 1       Jennifer Hall requests Project Plan approval for self storage units, located at approximately 1765 S
              Colorado Ave in the M1 (Light Industrial) zone. East Bay Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-
              6408 jblarsen@provo.org PLPPA20190339


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of
February 9, 2022:

                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Peter Fife
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Brian Henrie,
Peter Fife, and Miles Miller

Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •   Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 The Coordinators Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
A neighborhood meeting is not required for this item.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
None was received.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicants’ presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The applicant addressed some questions about siting planning, phasing, and security issues.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION

 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
                                                        Page 1 of 2
    •   The proposed uses seem appropriate for the zone.
    •   One commissioner lamented that another storage facility would be located in the area.
    •   The landscaping, open space, and trees will be much nicer than the gravel pit (that has existed on the subject
        property) for future residents of the Remington development and the students at Treeside Charter School.
    •   Commissioner Anderson moved that the Planning Commission approve the proposed project plan with the
        following conditions:
            o Completion of the annexation process with the City and Lieutenant Governor’s Office
            o Approval of the final subdivision application (PLFSUB20210304)
            o Completion of CRC comments (landscape plan, stormwater, and road vacation corrections).
        The motion was seconded by Commissioner Fife, and passed, 8-0.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
