                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                  November 13, 2024


    ITEM 3       Tyson Reynolds requests Concept Plan approval for a 100-unit apartment building in a proposed
                 MDR (Medium Density Residential) Zone, located at 2000 N Canyon Road. Pleasant View
                 Neighborhood. Nancy Robison (801) 852-6417 nrobison@provo.org PLCP20240215



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 13, 2024:


                               APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

Conditions of Approval:
    1. Subject to zone change approval

Motion By: Adam Shin
Second By: Melissa Kendall
Votes in Favor of Motion: Adam Shin, Melissa Kendall, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Jeff Whitlock, Jonathon Hill,
Andrew South, Barbara DeSoto
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


RELATED ACTIONS
Planning Commission recommended approval of a zone change from R1.8 to Medium Density Residential (MDR) to be
forwarded to Provo City Council, with a development agreement. This took place in the same meeting on November 13th,
2024.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
93 Total Units
Type of occupancy approved: Family
Standard Land Use Code 1150

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
201 Total parking stalls required
240 Total parking stalls provided
Required parking stalls per unit twelve- one bedroom units x 1.5 = 18
Required parking stalls per unit eighty-one two plus units x 2.25 = 183


                                                       Page 1 of 8
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Applies - referred applicant to Council Attorney.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.


CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.


NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 12/7/2023 and 7/17/2024.


NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present and addressed the Planning Commission.


CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • The existence of a canal running through the property and wanting to make sure that was properly addressed with
        engineering.
    • The building height and whether there would need to be a retaining wall behind the building.
    • The suggestion was made that if there were any parking costs those should be included in the rent and not an extra
        fee.
    • There should be some kind of bond for landscaping so that the property is not left as a graded hill if they decide
        to not move forward on the project plan.
    • What the grading of the slope would be.
    • Two members of the public had a handout for the planning commission. Those are attached as item 1 & 2 below.


APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The slope would be 2:1 which was more than sufficient after testing the soil.
   • The canal system will be addressed and moved properly if necessary and during an off season.
   • The applicant is willing to provide a bond for landscaping the property if the project does not move forward after
       grading.
   • The applicant asked what number or percentage or for sale units would be appropriate. The planning commission
       did not have an answer but advised the developer to run the numbers to see what would be feasible.


PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The project gets rid of problematic terrain.
   • It is a good location for MDR on a collector road.
                                                        Page 2 of 8
    •   The proposed shape and interior parking makes it a nice looking building.
    •   Having three-bedroom units for single families does address a need that is lacking in current housing options in
        Provo.
    •   They feel like the developer is listening to the neighbors’ concerns and addressing the issues of the canal and
        height, as well as landscaping.
    •   The question was raised on how feasible it would be to have both rental and for sale units in the same building.
    •   By having stacked units available for families that relieves some of the stress on the need for single-family lots.
    •   They would like to make sure there is a development agreement that runs with the land.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 8
Handout #1

Statement by Dee V. Jacobs, Garden Villa Condo neighbor
Before the Provo Planning Commission Hearing November 13, 2024


The “Elephant in the Room” has finally been recognized by dedicated neighborhood opponents to Reynold’s first and
third large apartment house proposals, thanks to Paul Evans and homebuilder Boyd Nuttall.
It is the 23-mile-long Upper East Union Canal Pipeline which runs from Provo Canyon to Spanish Fork almost entirely
through a steel pipe 7 to 12 feet in diameter on a restricted right of way. It carries 400 million gallons of water a season.
Reynolds can no longer act like it doesn’t exist, because it significantly impacts their proposal. The canal is there. Homes
and apartments cannot be built on top of it. It cannot be left dangling in the air. This means that Reynolds could only
excavate the hill down to the pipeline, which is some 60 feet east of Canyon Road and approximately 7 feet higher in
altitude.
Ignoring this, Reynold’s latest proposal would have the pipeline running through apartments. Driveways for 240 cars also
have to be changed.
Why has Reynolds presented the City and us neighbors with an inadequate, time wasting proposal?




                                                        Page 4 of 8
Handout #2




             Page 5 of 8
Page 6 of 8
Page 7 of 8
Page 8 of 8
