                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     April 13, 2022


 *Item 2        Quinn Peterson requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Section 14.21D.140 in order to change the
                design standard regulations for the West Gateway Zone. Citywide application. Dustin Wright. (801)
                852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLOTA20220010


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of April
13, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Conditions of Approval:
N/A

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Ally Jones
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Ally Jones, Peter Fife, Miles Miller, Daniel Gonzales, Brian Henrie, Laurie
Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •   Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is located in attachments 1 and 2 of the Staff Report for this item.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
 • This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

                                                        Page 1 of 2
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• No comment received from the public

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• Other projects that have come through the city for consideration in this gateway area would have benefited from better
   design standards like the ones in the downtown areas. The proposed standards are not too strenuous and will help
   provide better developments in the area.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• This is good to see this happening now to help improve this gateway into the City.
• The existing developments in the zone would not need to be retrofitted to meet these new design standards. This
   would only be applied to new work being done in the zone.
• Some wording in the proposed language was clarified that it was intended to say what was written.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
