                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                       June 10, 2020


 Item 3           Mykel Davis requests Project Plan approval for a four-story School of Music building (171,000 sf),
                  located at approximately 800 E 1060 N in the Public Facilities (PF) zone. University Neighborhood.
                  Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPPA20200056



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of June
10, 2020:


                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 4:1, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
   1. That a Transportation Demand Management (TDM) agreement is approved and signed by the applicant and the
       Mayor prior to building permit approval.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Andrew Howard, Deborah Jensen
Votes Against the Motion: Dave Anderson
(Laurie Urquiaga abstained)
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Staff gave a brief overview of the history of the proposal and the updates since the May 13 Planning
 Commission hearing, including the new recommended condition of approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 03/12/2020.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The adjacent Neighborhood Chair was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
 • Multiple Neighborhood Chair(s) were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Dave Acheson shared concerns about parking numbers spilling into the neighborhood.
    • Ruth Thomas stated BYU strategies have helped, but wondered why some parking would be paid.
    • Sharon Memmott stated appreciation of the BYU strategies, but wondered if the Commission could condition a
        UVX stop on 900 East.
    • Parker Howell stated he is against any idea of a parking garage on BYU campus.
    • Paul Evans likes the BYU proposals and supports a new UVX stop on 900 East.
    • Andrew Maxfield desires a UVX stop on 900 East.
    • Mary Wade supports the proposal and wants a UVX stop on 900 East.
    • Jamin Rowan wondered if BYU could look at additional parking in the Taylor building parking lot and the
        Wasatch Elementary parking lot.
    • Aaron Skabelund supports approval of the music building and wants a UVX stop on 900 East.
    • Mary Miller wants a UVX stop on 900 East.
    • Pat Ihler wants a UVX stop on 900 East.
    • Tanner Thompson wants a UVX stop on 900 East.
    • Emily Craig supports using Wasatch Elementary parking lots for night time events at the music building.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Ray Bernier stated BYU is supportive of a UVX stop on 900 East, if the City and neighborhood are in favor of
       pursuing the additional stop. He also reviewed the seven strategies approved by BYU to relieve event parking
       issues related to the music building. BYU will work to incorporate the strategies into a TDM agreement.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Lisa Jensen believes that the strategies presented by BYU addressed the parking concerns brought up at the last
       hearing.
   • Robert Knudsen followed up with a discussion of possibly tearing down a building east of 900 East for more
       parking (BYU confirmed that is not in the plans). Robert also expressed a history of lack of parking at BYU as a
       concern, and thought that evenings with multiple events on campus could still show issues. (BYU stated they will
       manage those situations as they arise).
   • Laurie Urquiaga appreciated the Museum of Art parking access, but wondered about strategies to stop parking in
       the neighborhoods.
   • Dave Anderson stated concerns that BYU strategies will still push parking into the neighborhoods, and that a
       UVX stop would be very helpful. (Staff stated that BYU shouldn’t be held up for UVX, and that station locations
       and funding have been discussed at a City level).
   • Deborah Jensen appreciated the strategies offered by BYU and believes UVX needs to come to 900 East. She
       encouraged Provo City and BYU to work together to alleviate parking issues in the neighborhoods.
                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
