                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  September 14, 2022


*ITEM #4       Dudley & Associates requests a General Plan Map Amendment from a Mixed-Use designation to a
               Commercial designation as part of an overall development plan to establish professional office uses on
               the site, located approximately at 5515 N Edgewood Drive. Riverbottoms Neighborhood. Aaron
               Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLGPA20220004




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 14, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Raleen Wahlin
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Raleen Whalin, Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales, Andrew South, Melissa Kendall
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE AMENDED
The property to be amended to the Commercial Designation is described in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
A future zone map amendment and concept plan will come to the Planning Commission for these properties.

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.
• May apply with future approvals.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff gave an overview of the report and related the swap of commercial for residential land across
the river with items 5-7 on the September 14, 2022 Planning Commission agenda. Keith Morey also spoke about the
overall plan for the properties.




                                                        Page 1 of 4
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 02/03/2022.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Robert Harris stated concerns with increased traffic and his water rights on his property.
    • Stuart Harris asked about zoning on the adjacent property to the south.
    • Lynn Martin asked how this would impact the residential property to the south.
    • Jeff Tremaine shared concerns with the proposals to develop the area.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jim Ivory represented the applicant and shared information on the request and plans for the site.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission asked about the homes occupied on the property and if the residents know of the future
       plans.
   • The Commission asked about the occupancy and layout of the future office buildings, as well as access to the
       river near the site and the pedestrian bridge over the river.
   • Daniel Gonzales asked the applicant what other concepts were discussed on the property and noted that the change
       in 2013 from the Commercial designation was significant.
   • Melissa Kendall noted that the office use would be less of an impact on the adjacent properties than a residential
       use.
   • The Planning Commission noted that concerns with site design and traffic will be worked out at a future Project
       Plan stage.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

                                                      Page 2 of 4
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 4
EXHIBIT A




Page 4 of 4
