                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      June 26, 2024


*ITEM 3          Development Services request Ordinance Text Amendments to the DT1 (General Downtown), DT2
                 (Downtown Core), and ITOD (Interim Transit Oriented Development) Zones in order to add housing
                 density maximums. Citywide application. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
                 PLOTA20240162

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of June
26, 2024:


                                                 CONTINUED
On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to July 10th, 2024, for further discussion.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Andrew South
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Andrew South, Daniel Gonzales, Robert Knudsen, Barbara DeSoto, Jonathon Hill,
Jeff Whitlock, Adam Shin
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff gave additional background information on the downtown zones allowances and difficulty
finding additional incentives to get guaranteed for-sale units, and clarified that this item is not up for a recommendation
from the Planning Commission, but for discussion and should be continued after discussion.

PROPOSED TEXT AMENDMENT
The proposed text amendment for discussion is attached as Exhibit A.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood District Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

                                                        Page 1 of 6
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Leslie Jones (representing Obie Companies) indicated some reservations about limiting density downtown and
        the believes that it can result in negative impacts to development downtown. She desires to know what the
        problem is with a high rental percentage in the city. Once the problem is more clearly defined, then we can work
        at finding solutions. Ms. Jones indicated that the density limit impacts project design but did not address questions
        from the Commission on issues with guaranteeing owner-occupancy or offering all for-sale units.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Staff addressed questions on difficulties with condominium construction and financing, indicating that creating a
       separate building with for-sale units can be difficult for developers.
   • Staff noted that the direction from the City Council comes from a recent history of many more rental units than
       for-sale units over the last ten years in Provo, and that there are not a lot of choices for first-time homebuyers.
   • Staff shared the risk of not doing enough to address the housing crisis and seeing the State force regulations on
       the city, but that Provo has a lot of property zoned for new units, but economics are holding back new
       development.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioner Jensen warned of loopholes and hopes that there can be a way to ensure owner-occupied units on
       the for-sale products instead of a quick switch to more rental units.
   • Commissioner Gonzales indicated support for a longer period of required owner-occupancy on for-sale units, but
       realized that the difficulty with regulating that requirement could be difficult for staff. Staff indicated that HOAs
       have proven better at watching the occupancy of units in this regard.
   • Commissioner Whitlock asked staff for further information on what makes condominium construction so
       difficult. Staff indicated that financing for that construction has been more difficult since 2008, but that there
       appears to be a strong market for condo units.
   • The Commission discussed relative density of projects built downtown to better understand how the proposed
       density limits could affect future projects.
   • There was additional discussion around the difficulty for smaller, infill projects to achieve the for-sale units
       desired by the city. Concerns about creating a ceiling and limiting new units downtown were shared among the
       Commission.
   • Commissioner DeSoto shared concerns about initiating these changes downtown where densely populated
       apartment projects are allowed and expected to be the dominant product type, and asked about smaller projects




                                                        Page 2 of 6
        outside of downtown that could help meet the goal of for-sale units. Staff shared a couple of examples of city-
        owned properties that are moving in that direction.
    •   Commissioner South asked Leslie Jones what she believes the problem with rental units is in her opinion. Ms.
        Jones indicated that she has not learned yet what the perceived issue is with a high percentage of rental units, but
        is only asking the question.
    •   Commissioner Gonzales related experiences with neighborhood pushback on rental units and shared his thoughts
        on what the concerns could be. He believes the city is trying to just balance the occupancy status.
    •   Commissioner Hill added that rental units are valuable and all housing units into the city should be valued and
        sought after.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center St, Provo, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office
   hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 6
EXHIBIT A




Page 4 of 6
Page 5 of 6
Page 6 of 6
