                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 22, 2023

     *ITEM 5    Nathan Gagon requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Section 14.34.320, Off-street Parking Across a
                Public Street or with an Intervening Property, to increase the allowed distance between the building and
                parking for downtown zones from 800 feet to 1100 feet. Downtown Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801)
                852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20230036


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
22, 2023:

                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.

Motion By: Jeff Whitlock
Second By: Raleen Wahlin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Jeff Whitlock, Raleen Wahlin, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Melissa Kendall
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

 •      New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
        Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff gave an overview of the proposal and specifics of the plan for the applicants business at 247
W Center Street.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting will be held on 03/30/2023.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following: None.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
    • Shawn Homer spoke about the parking options that were looked at for “The Rise” event center, but only was able

                                                        Page 1 of 3
        to get verbal agreements. He also confirmed the parking count required based on occupancy of the building. He
        agreed that a garage that far away wouldn’t be the most useful option available and that there is a lot within 800
        feet to satisfy demand, which people would most likely use.
    •   Nathan Gagon expressed his opinion that the added distance may not be an issue for a lot of people but he would
        keep looking for closer parking, or create incentive for parking in the garage they would contract with. He went
        on to give an overview of the business and stated that there are four off-street spaces on the site. He noted the
        average occupancy is 60 people but are hoping for up to 300 people.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission confirmed that there are plenty of public off-street spaces nearby but aren’t available
       to be reserved for businesses.
   • The Commission asked about the requirement to have written approval from Section 14.34.320, the ability for
       businesses on Center Street to park under current standards with “grandfathered” right to lesser parking, and that
       there are a lot of off-street parking spaces available downtown.
   • Staff spoke with the Commission about the Conditional Use Permit process and regulations.
   • The Commission stated their desire to bring business downtown and help the economic vitality of Center Street
       and recognize there is plenty of parking available and struggle to find a solution.
   • Staff brought forward a possible solution of a TDM (Transportation Demand Management) program to reduce
       the parking requirement from Section 14.37.050, Provo City Code. The Planning Commission supported that idea
       and confirmed with the applicant if that is a possible solution. Staff offered changing the staff recommendation
       to continuing the item indefinitely to allow time for the applicant to work on a TDM associated with the
       Conditional Use Permit.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
   • The Commission liked the idea of a TDM because it gives the City more authority to enforce the parking issue if
      it is not being managed effectively and that wouldn’t open it up to the entire downtown like the proposed text
      amendment would.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
   City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS

                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 3
