                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     August 25, 2021

 *ITEM 3       Chris and Karen Knuttgen request a Zone Change from Residential Conservation (RC) to Low Density
               Residential (LDR) to allow for four (4) townhome units located at 152 E 500 S. Maeser Neighborhood.
               Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org PLRZ20180057.


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of August
25, 2021:

                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.


Motion By: Ally Jones
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen,
and Brian Henrie

Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
The property to be rezoned to the Low Density Residential Zone (LDR) is described in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission also continued Item 2, the related, proposed Knuttgen project plan, at the August 25, 2021,
hearing.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
A neighborhood meeting was held on August 23, 2021.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
Sam Oman, resident of the Maeser Neighborhood, expressed concern that the subject property is located in a historic
neighborhood and RC (Residential Conservation) zoning was intended to keep existing development the way it is.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The applicant noted struggles with remodeling the existing home. He explained that it is old, and the foundation is
       not sound. The home is “scabbed” together.
                                                        Page 1 of 3
   •   He expressed an intent to rent the proposed dwelling units.
   •   The applicant fielded many questions from the Planning Commission relative to site layout, landscaping, owner
       verses renter occupancy, etc. The applicant demonstrated a sincere willingness to work with the Planning
       Commission to address their concerns.
   •   He noted that he had been responsive to the neighborhood’s concerns about making the development attractive for
       larger, long-term families by increasing the number of bedrooms in the units.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission expressed concern with many issues related to the proposed development, including
       safety (pedestrian and lighting), lack of open space and outdoor living space, plainness of proposed architecture,
       crammed feel of the development.
   • Commissioner Jones express concerns with the functionality of the proposed development, including issues with
       trash removal, navigating the proposed driveway, and the large open parking area to the south that could invite
       unwanted visitors.
   • Commissioner Jensen suggested varied color and material treatments between the proposed dwellings to add
       variety.
   • The Planning Commission asked the applicant to get with staff and work on a revised layout plan with a more
       open feel, and perhaps include detached units to increase livability and safety.
   • Commissioner Jones made the following motion, which was seconded by Commissioner Urquiaga: Continue this
       proposal to a date uncertain, so the applicant could consult with staff on the proposed project plan. The motion
       passed, 7-0.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                          EXHIBIT A


COM. 163 FT W OF NE COR OF BLK 3, PLAT B, PROVO CITY SURVEY; W 74.5 FT; S 232 FT; E 74.5 FT; N 232
FT TO BEG.




                                            Page 3 of 3
