                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 14, 2020


 ITEM 3       Dudley and Associates requests Concept Plan approval for a 27-lot, single-family subdivision in a
              proposed R1.10 zone, located at approximately 430 E 3950 N. North Timpview Neighborhood. Aaron
              Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20200223



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 14, 2020:


                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Deborah Jensen
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Deborah Jensen, Lisa Jensen, Dave Anderson, Laurie Urquiaga, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales,
Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was present and addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present and addressed the Planning Commission.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
     • Bonnie Morrow stated that the HOA maintained walls and park strips along Canyon Road are great and is
         confident that this will be the same. She loves the site plan and would like it to move forward.
     • Two other neighbors, a Ms. Kim and Mr. Brian called in to offer their support for the plan.


                                                        Page 1 of 2
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • In response to questions from the Planning Commission, Mr. Dudley stated that the HOA would maintain the
       landscaping on Canyon Road and that the plan meets criteria in the code. He also showed an example of the wall
       and landscaping to be used on the project.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Lisa Jensen noted that the prior concerns have been resolved and if the neighbors are fine with the plan, then she
       has no further issues.
   • Brian Henrie asked about possible future access to the east and stated his desire to allow for more bicycle and
       pedestrian improvements on Canyon Road.
   • Laurie Urquiaga asked about the wall to be used and stated it should be a nice development for the area.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
