                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    January 26, 2022


*ITEM #6        Consideration of an amendment to Title 15 regarding the process and requirements for appeals related to
                impact fees. Citywide. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20210273



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
January 26, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Brian Henrie
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Brian Henrie, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Ally Jones, Miles Miller, Daniel
Gonzales
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were not present or did not address the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:

                                                       Page 1 of 17
    •   Dixon Holmes represented the applicant and responded to questions from the Planning Commission regarding
        the reasons for the changes, how impact fees are calculated, and reasons that people would use the proposed code
        section.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission asked questions about the proposed amendments to better understand the background
       for the changes and how impact fees work in the City.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 17
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 17
Page 4 of 17
Page 5 of 17
Page 6 of 17
Page 7 of 17
Page 8 of 17
Page 9 of 17
Page 10 of 17
Page 11 of 17
Page 12 of 17
Page 13 of 17
Page 14 of 17
Page 15 of 17
Page 16 of 17
Page 17 of 17
