                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 22, 2023

 ITEM 3      Nathan Turner requests Concept Plan approval for site improvements over multiple properties and a
             conversion of a single-family home to a two-family home in a proposed MDR (Medium Density
             Residential) zone, located at 141 East 500 North. Joaquin Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404
             aardmore@provo.org PLCP20220351

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
22, 2023:

                                                   APPROVED
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Raleen Wahlin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Raleen Wahlin, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Jeff Whitlock
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The related rezone application (PLRZ20230019) was recommended for approval by the Planning Commission (Item #4,
 March 23, 2023 Hearing).

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*8 Total Units

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*30 Total parking stalls provided

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • May apply with future approvals.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 11/29/2022.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.


                                                        Page 1 of 2
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Nathan Turner explained his desire for a cohesive community with future development potential. He stated that
       the duplex conversion allows him the funds to reinvest into amenities for the tenants.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission confirmed the parking count for the properties and that no buildings are being demolished
       initially with the concept plan. The parking supply will be an improvement.
   • The Commission had staff explain the nonconformities on the properties and that the zone change will help the
       property be able to improve and resolve nonconformities.
   • The Planning Commission will see the future Project Plan when the properties are redeveloped.
   • The request aligns with the General Plan and provides improved amenities. They are appreciative of the owner
       wanting to improve the existing property, he is essentially asking to improve the space and the possibilities of
       that are positive.
   • The surrounding properties are already at MDR-type densities and the zone should work well in the block without
       adverse impacts.
   • The Commission requested direction for how to guarantee the site improvements shown on the concept plan and
       made a strong recommendation to carry out amenities as shown at the hearing with the motion to recommend
       approval of the zone change.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
   City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
