                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   September 27, 2023

 *ITEM 7     Development Services requests approval of an Ordinance Text Amendment to adopt an Agritourism
             Overlay (AT) Zone. Citywide Application. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
             PLOTA20230221

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 25, 2023:

                                                  CONTINUED
On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales, Andrew South, Barbara DeSoto, Jeff Whitlock,
Raleen Wahlin, Jonathon Hill, Melissa Kendall
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.
 •    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff also responded to public comments that the Commission received by email, and justified
proposed code regulations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
     • Barry Finch expressed concerns with the proposal, namely security and hours of operation.
     • Judy Finch shared concerns with the proposal, specifically hours of operation, security, and distance requirements
         that could make businesses difficult to succeed.
     • Scott Christofferson has concerns about what types of events would be permitted in the overlay zone.
                                                        Page 1 of 5
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Staff expressed support for the proposed language that would mitigate the concerns that would come with event
       centers in agricultural and residential areas, and codes that could be administered by staff in a reasonable manner.
   • Staff agreed to research distance requirements for events adjacent to animals.
   • Staff stated the importance of security on uses granted through a zone change, which is different from a
       conditional use permit that could be revoked.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission asked for clarification of standards in Section 14.08A.100 of the proposal, staff responded that
       security would need to be on site for the entire event when those conditions exist.
   • Commissioner Wahlin expressed concern that the proposal is too restrictive.
   • Commissioner Knudsen expressed his support for the language as written.
   • Commissioner Jensen confirmed parking standards for the overlay would need to be paved, how the design
       standards would be verified (through the DRC), how the proposed hours of operation correspond to other rules in
       the city, and where the distance requirements came from.
   • Commissioners discussed possible changes to security requirements, noise levels, and types of events that could
       be permitted.
   • Commissioners discussed options for security, what live music is defined as, and whether alcohol is provided or
       brought to the premises.
   • Commissioner Whitlock suggested more specificity to the design standards in regard to permitted materials, and
       suggested that gravel parking be permitted in the overlay zone.
   • Commissioner Hill suggested removing the time requirement for security and further defining the distance
       requirement and live music standard.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
   • That the regulations of the overlay need to be reviewed by staff, specifically in the following areas:
           o Metal Façade definition
           o Distance requirement research and regulations
           o Lessening of security requirements by limiting use allowances and defining noise limits
           o Investigating if gravel can be a parking surface for permitted uses
           o Defining permitted uses and noise levels with uses




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.


                                                       Page 2 of 5
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
   office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

               BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                    Page 3 of 5
EXHIBIT A




Page 4 of 5
Page 5 of 5
