                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                     August 12, 2020

 *ITEM 7        Barton Foutz is requesting amendments to Sections 14.50(2).030, 14.50(20).050 and 14.36.050 to allow for
                an additional dwelling unit, located at 670 N 800 E in the PRO-A2 zone. Joaquin Neighborhood. Aaron
                Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20200197




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of August
12, 2020:


                                        RECOMMEND DENIAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council deny the above noted application.


Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Robert Knudsen, Deborah Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga, Ally Jones, Daniel
Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Brian Henrie
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Staff gave an overview of the proposal and a history of the property as outlined in the staff report.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 07/30/2020.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following: None.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
    •    The applicant noted that he had bought the property in 2014 and decided to pave additional space for parking. He
         believed he had an option to increase parking on the site and establish a third unit in the garage, which had its
         own power meter.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Members of the Commission noted the property is currently in violation of City Codes and wondered if the
       application should move forward.
   • Questions were asked of the applicant on where the third unit would be established and noted that one has never
       been established according to City records.
   • The Commission was uncomfortable with the nonconformities existing and those that would expand through this
       proposal.
   • Deborah Jensen noted that the proposal did not align with the Joaquin Neighborhood Plan.
   • Laurie Urquiaga stated issues with amending a city-wide regulation for this property to get another unit.
   • Lisa Jensen stated that adding to a nonconforming use should force the property to be in compliance with the
       PRO-A2 zone.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
