                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   February 12, 2025

*ITEM 2     Peggy Case requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Section 14.08A.040 (Lot Area) to reduce the
            minimum lot size for the Agritourism Overlay Zone from five (5) acres to one (1) acre. Citywide
            Application. Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.gov PLOTA20240383

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 12, 2025:
                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Adam Shin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew South, Adam Shin, Barbara DeSoto, Jonathon Hill, Jeff Whitlock, Melissa Kendall
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.
•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• Citywide Application; all Neighborhood District Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• A district representative said that there is general support from the neighbors but that there could be a concern for
    parking and noise that may result from a smaller lot with this land use.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The applicant was not present during the public hearing.
                                                        Page 1 of 3
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• It was discussed that one acre feels too small for this land use. Staff explained that any property that wishes to apply
   for the overlay zone will have to go through the public review process which would give staff, the Planning
   Commission and the City Council the opportunity to evaluate each specific property that applies.
• There are not any properties that currently have the AT overlay and so this would not give any new opportunities to
   someone without first going through the rezone process.
• The AT overlay zone allows for commercial tours, educational classes, museums. event halls.
• Only 1/3 of a parcel can be used for the overlay uses.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                             Exhibit A
Existing Text

14.08A.040 (Lot Area)

Each lot or parcel of land in the AT Overlay must contain a minimum of five (5) acres. The AT Overlay may not
be applied to an existing agricultural parcel that does not meet this requirement.

Proposed Text

14.08A.040 (Lot Area)

Each lot or parcel of land in the AT Overlay must contain a minimum of five (5) acres one (1) acre. The AT
Overlay may not be applied to an existing agricultural parcel that does not meet this requirement.




                                                  Page 3 of 3
