                              Provo City Planning Commission
                                   Report of Action
                                             January 8, 2020


* Item 2      Provo City Public Works Dept. requests a General Plan Amendment to correct language in
              Area 5 of the Annexation Policy Map to replace "approximately 5,200 feet" with
              "approximately 4,876 feet" as an existing water pressure zone. North Timpview Neighborhood.
              Robert Mills (801) 852-6407 rmills@provo.org PLGPA20190410




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular
meeting of January 8, 2020:


                                   Recommend Approval

 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended the item by approved by the Municipal
 Council, with the inclusion of Area 6 of the Annexation Policy Plan and Map at the same elevation. The
 Planning Commission directed staff to include the appropriate wording in the text prior to sending it to
 the Municipal Council. The motion stated:

 “Provo City Public Works Dept. requests a General Plan Amendment to correct language in Area 5 and Area
 6 of the Annexation Policy Map to replace ‘approximately 5,200 feet’ with ‘approximately 4,876 feet’ as an
 existing water pressure zone.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Andrew Howard
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Deborah Jensen, Lisa Jensen, Andrew Howard, Robert
Knudsen, and Laurie Urquiaga
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's
 analysis, conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the
 Planning Commission included the following:

 -   The General Plan includes an Annexation Policy Plan and Map designating anticipated areas to be
     annexed into the city.
 -   Public Works staff had reviewed the documents and found the inconsistency in what was stated was
     the water pressure service zone and what the actual serviceable elevation is. The proposed
     amendment simply aims to correct the inconsistency.
APPLICANT PRESENTATION

-   David Day from the Public Works Department explained that the proposed amendment was to
    simply add the correct elevation for the water pressure service zone.
-   Mr. Day explained that Area 6 did not historically have a specific water pressure service zone
    elevation, but didn’t see any reason why it could not be added.
-   Mr. Day explained that development may be possible above those elevations; however, the
    developer of such a project would be responsible for installing the needed infrastructure, including
    a new water tank, to service those locations, provided other factors such as topography and slide
    potential can also be mitigated.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• Staff is aware of no concerns from City departments.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• No comments from neighborhood chairs or the public were received at the meeting.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:

-   Ms. Urguiaga questioned why the same elevation wasn’t proposed for Area 6 of the Annexation
    plan. This question was shared by other commission members as well.
-   Mr. Anderson also asked if there were other limiting factors to hillside development other than just
    water pressure service ability.
-   Ms. Lisa Jensen suggested adding the elevation to Area 6 as well.
-   The Planning Commission made the recommendation to add Area 6 to the proposed amendment
    and directed staff to include the additional language in the materials to be sent to the Municipal
    Council.




              Planning Commission Chair




           Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff
    Report to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record
    of the decision of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those
    will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following
    a public hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council
    following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by
    submitting an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the
Development Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar
days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday,
7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).
BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
