                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  September 14, 2022


*ITEM 7        Dudley & Associates requests a Zone Map Amendment from the RBP (Research and Business Park)
               zone to the MDR (Medium Density Residential) zone to allow for a new multi-family residential
               district, located approximately at 5544 N River Run Drive. Riverbottoms Neighborhood. Aaron
               Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20220008



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 14, 2022:


              RECOMMENDED APPROVAL WITH CONDITIONS
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application
with conditions.

Conditions of Approval: That the proffered Development Agreement is signed.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen, Raleen Wahlin, Andrew South, Daniel Gonzales
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
The property to be rezoned to the MDR Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
The related General Plan Map Amendment (PLGPA20220007) and Concept Plan (PLCP20220014) were also heard at
the September 14, 2022 Planning Commission meeting.

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Applies - referred applicant to Council Attorney.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff responded to Planning Commission questions regarding use, density, and design of the site.




                                                        Page 1 of 4
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 02/03/2022.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Lynn Martin expressed concerns about access to the river and rental property on the site and hoped to address
        concerns for her fathers’ land near the site.
    • Kevin Curtis expressed concerns with increased traffic and impacts on the adjacent specialty schools to the west.
    • Karen Harris stated concerns with traffic for the area.
    • Ronald Wooley shared concerns with the site fly ash underground from a past coal plant, as well as traffic, trash
        pickup and parking.
    • Jeff Jermaine shared concerns about the fly ash in the ground and has concerns with increased traffic and safety.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jason White represented the applicant and illustrated the background, research, and goals that brought this
       proposal forward. He noted the need for this type of housing in Provo.
   • Jim Ivory confirmed that the development will tie to Provo water and will not be a threat to adjacent property
       water rights.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Melissa Kendall confirmed with staff that the townhomes being rented by one owner would be a benefit for the
       development and confirmed occupancy for the proposed development.
   • Daniel Gonzales inquired what density would currently be allowed in the MDR zoned property against University
       Avenue compared to what is able to be built on this proposed residential land. He also wanted to confirm that the
       trail network on the site was going to continue.
   • The commission confirmed with staff that the proposal doesn’t sit in the flood plain zone.
   • Andrew South asked about walkable commercial opportunities, to which the applicant said that future plans will
       address that need.
   • Daniel Gonzales shared that the concerns mentioned will be worked out as the applicant moves through the Project
       Plan and provides the studies necessary with that review. He is happy to see a concept plan that has a lot of open
       space along the river.
   • The Planning Commission felt confident that the issues will be addressed by the City as the plans move forward.
       The proposed development agreement locking the developer into the proposed concept density helps the
       commission feel comfortable moving these applications forward.




                                                      Page 2 of 4
                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 4
EXHIBIT A




Page 4 of 4
