                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   September 27, 2023

 ITEM 8     Judy and Barry Finch request Concept Plan approval for a four-lot subdivision in the RA (Residential
            Agricultural) Zone and the A1.1 (Agricultural) Zone on 10.64 acres of property at 358 South 2470 West.
            Provo Bay Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20230230

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 27, 2023:
                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Daniel Gonzales
Second By: Andrew South
Votes in Favor of Motion: Daniel Gonzales, Andrew South, Robert Knudsen, Barbara DeSoto, Jeff Whitlock, Raleen
Wahlin, Lisa Jensen, Melissa Kendall, Jonathon Hill
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also recommended approval of the related zone map amendment at the September 27, 2023
 hearing (PLRZ20230182).

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 07/07/2023.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
 • Multiple Neighborhood Chair(s) were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.




                                                         Page 1 of 2
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following: None.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Seems like a good request to clean up the zoning, no change of use occurring.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
   City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
