                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                   October 28, 2020

*Item 7   Jeffrey Rands requests a Zone Change from Residential Conservation (RC) to Low Density Residential (LDR)
          to subdivide the lot to create one approximately 4,600 sf, single-family lot, located at 189 S 500 W. Franklin
          Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org PLRZ20200124


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 28, 2020:

                             RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the above noted application.

Motion By: Deborah Jensen
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Brian Henrie, Dave
Anderson, Robert Knudsen and Daniel Gonzalez.

Dave Anderson was present as Chair.


 LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the Low Density Residential (LDR) Zone is described in the attached Exhibit
 “A.”

 RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission approved the associated concept plan for the subject property (PLCP20200184) on
 September 23, 2020.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
 conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission
 included the following: Staff gave an overview of the proposal and Staff recommendation, as read in the Staff
 Report.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
   • Due to the pandemic, an alternative method to a neighborhood meeting (social media post) was used to
      gather feedback from the neighborhood. Development Services did receive an email from citizens that
      live adjacent to the subject property. The citizens were concerned about the density of the proposal,
      neighborhood stability, and maintaining the historic and architectural character of the Franklin
      Neighborhood.
   • Another email from a neighbor of the subject property expressed concern that the proposed lots are small
      and will not help bring stability to the neighborhood. The homes built on these small parcels will attract
      short-term residents.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • Kip Smith, neighbor of subject property, stated that many residents did not attend the neighborhood
     meeting at which this application was discussed.
  • Mr. Smith stated that he polled five (5) nearby neighbors (owner-occupied units) and they were not
     supportive of the proposal.
  • Mr. Smith further stated that once you eliminate the greenspace in a backyard, you cannot go back.
     There is not much greenspace to give up in the area.
  • He noted the historic nature of the neighborhood and stated that a proposed home would need to match
     the existing, adjacent homes.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
The following are key points the applicant made during the meeting:
   • This proposal fits the long-term plan for the area and revitalizes the neighborhood.
   • A nearby property is zoned LDR.
   • A development agreement has been proffered to the City to limit the use of the property to single-family
       dwellings.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioner Urquiaga stated that the Planning Commission has a good understanding of the proposal
      and she believes “it’s a good project.”




                Planning Commission Chair




            Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West 100
South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are
Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                    EXHIBIT “A”


             LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
COM. AT SW COR OF BLK 49, PLAT A, PROVO CITY SURVEY; N 5 RODS; E 8 RODS; S 5 RODS; W 8
RODS TO BEG.
