                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                     March 25, 2020


 ITEM 3      Mykel Davis requests Project Plan approval for a four-story School of Music building (171,000 sf), located at
             approximately 800 E 1060 N in the Public Facilities (PF) zone. University Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore
             (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPPA20200056



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
25, 2020:


                                                 CONTINUED
On a vote of 4:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to April 22nd.


Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Deborah Jensen, Maria Winden
(Russell Phillips and Laurie Urquiaga abstained)
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

•    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
     Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following: Staff gave an overview on the proposal, noting its current status of needed additional parking information and
resolving pending staff concerns.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• Traffic study required and reviewed at this stage of project review or approval.
• Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 03/12/2020.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following: The Planning Commission decided to continue
this item after the staff presentation because the parking information provided by the applicant did not include information
necessary for the Planning Commission to grant a reduction in parking.
FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
That the Planning Commission needs to know if the campus, and this project specifically, is adequately parked to meet
Provo City Code.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
