                                  Provo City Planning Commission
                                       Report of Action
                                                June 10, 2020

Item 7*       Provo City Council Office requests a Zone Map Amendment to include multiple east bench
              properties in the Critical Hillside (CH) Overlay Zone. Citywide application. Brandon Larsen
              (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org PLRZ20200078


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting
of June 10, 2020:

                                  RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL

On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Deborah Jensen, Dave Anderson, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, and
Robert Knudsen

Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission
included the following: Overview of the proposed CH Zone boundaries and outstanding concerns related to the
boundaries.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
  • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • Sharon Memmott: Why is the map shrinking?
  • Alex Grow expressed that the proposal is flawed and that ridgeline regulations are redundant and
     punitive to developers who have yet to develop their land. The City already has 30-percent slope
     requirements.
  • Kenneth Grow felt that some of the proposed ridgelines look more like a bench or swell. Ridgeline, 30-
     percent slope, and limits of disturbance requirements make much of the land completely undevelopable.
     This proposal is over-restrictive.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission approved this item and noted five (5) outstanding “loose-ends” or issues that
      need to be addressed.

           o Noted loose-ends or outstanding issues to address:
                   ▪   Encouraging reclamation of blighted foothill areas
                   ▪   Encouraging clustering of developments
                   ▪   Ridgelines (focus on highest prominence)
                   ▪   Boundaries of the map
                          • What to do with islands or parcels surrounded by existing development
                          • Diminished, disjointed zone boundaries—Should original boundaries be restored
                              and a tiered map be established that indicates those parcels that are immediately
                              subject to CH Zone requirements and those parcels that would be subject to the
                              Zone requirements at the time of redevelopment of the property?
                   ▪   Limits of Disturbance




              Planning Commission Chair




          Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the
Staff Report to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the
record of the decision of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff,
those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following
a public hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council
following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed
by submitting an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the
Development Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of
the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m.).

           BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS



          Attachment “A”: Critical Hillside (CH) Overlay Zone – Proposed Zone Boundaries

          Attachment “B”: Proposed Ridgelines
Attachment “A”: Critical Hillside (CH) Overlay Zone – Proposed Zone Boundaries
Attachment “B”: Proposed Ridgelines
Attachment “B”: Proposed Ridgelines, cont.
Attachment “B”: Proposed Ridgelines, cont.
Attachment “B”: Proposed Ridgelines, cont.
Attachment “B”: Proposed Ridgelines, cont.
