                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 26, 2022


Item 2         Stephen Sowby requests approval of a Concept Plan for a new twin home in a proposed LDR (Low
               Density Residential) zone, located at 1220 East 960 South. Provost South Neighborhood. Dustin Wright
               (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLCP20220245




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 26, 2022:


                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Jeff Whitlock
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew South, Jeff Whitlock, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen
Votes Opposed to Motion:
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


RELATED ACTIONS
PLRZ20220244 is item 1 on the same Planning Commission agenda.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
Twin home with single-family residential occupancy.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.



                                                        Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• The Planning Commission received some letters from neighbors that expressed concerns about safety and that the
    roads are already overparked. General plan policies about not changing from a single-family neighborhood.
• There have been substantially more townhomes and apartments than single-family homes built in recent years. The
    southeast plan calls for R1 zone to be protected.
• The angle of the driveway will cause problems that may lead to people not using the driveway and with the location
    of the school crossing.
• This lot should be a single-family home and not a twin home. There needs to be cohesion between the neighborhoods.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The neighbor to the west has agreed to provide the needed land to make this site meet the width requirements
• The large trees will not be affected and will be a nice buffer for development.
• They stated that the look of the development could improve, this is just a concept. The total square footage would be
   over 3,000 square feet.


PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• There were concerns about finding consistency with the Southeast neighborhood plan policies that call for the
   residential R1 properties not to change and about filling vacant property.
• The property is adjacent to the proposed LDR on the Future Land Use Map.
• The 4,000 square feet is the minimum needed for a twin home.
• The character of the proposal is not that dissimilar from the surrounding properties.
• The frontage is sufficient for a single-family home. It needs the extra piece from the adjacent parcel for the twin home
   to work.
• Having 2 homes on the property will create more traffic than if there was only one home.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.


                                                       Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 445 West Center St., Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
