                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      July 27, 2022


*ITEM #5       The Development Services Department requests an amendment to the Sign Code Chapter 14.38 to
               prohibit electronic display signs in the proposed Mixed-Use (MU) and Neighborhood Mixed-Use
               (NMU) zones. Citywide Application. Javin Weaver (801) 852-6413 jweaver@provo.org
               PLOTA20220224



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of July
27, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Melissa Kendall
Votes in Favor of Motion: 6

Dan Gonzales was present as Vice-Chair (acting as Chair).

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


RELATED ACTIONS
The proposed Mixed-Use Zones (14.14D) were heard at a Planning Commission Study Session on April 13, 2022. An
application was filed (PLOTA20220144) and the item was heard at Planning Commission on May 25, 2022 and
recommended approval.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
• Staff explained that certain zones prohibit electronic signs and that discussion in Council meetings recommended that
    they are prohibited in the proposed Mixed-Use Zones.
• Staff explained the revision to rectify the acronym for the Agricultural sign code (14.38.070).

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

                                                        Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• No neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Jeff Whitlock inquired what the impetus for the application.
• Miles Miller inquired how additional zones can prohibit electronic signs.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




EXHIBIT A - Amended Text – Signs and Outdoor Advertising
                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                               Chapter 14.38
                               SIGNS AND OUTDOOR ADVERTISING

Sections:
  ...
  14.38.070    Signs Permitted – Agricultural (A1) and Residential (R) Zones.

...
14.38.010
General Requirements.

...

(3) Electronic Display and Animated Signs. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, all animated signs are
prohibited. On-premises electronic display signs are prohibited in all Project Redevelopment Option (PRO)
zones, the Special Development Plan (SDP) Overlay zone, the Downtown Historic district, and the A1, RA, RC,
R1, R2, VLDR, LDR, MDR, and HDR, MU, and NMU zones, but are permitted elsewhere. Businesses using
electronic display signs are subject to the business licensing regulations contained in Chapter 6.06, Provo City
Code. On-premises short hold time electronic display signs are prohibited in all zones, except as otherwise
provided in Section 14.38.025, Provo City Code.

...

14.38.070

Signs Permitted – Agricultural (A1) and Residential (R) Zones.

No sign shall be erected in any agricultural or any residential zones except as provided within the provisions of
the respective zoning districts as established in this Title, except that certain special purpose signs may be
erected in all zones in compliance with the provisions of Section 14.38.050, Provo City Code.

                                                        ...




                                                    Page 3 of 3
