                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  November 08, 2023


*ITEM #4         Susan Palmer requests a Zone Map Amendment from the A1.10 (Agricultural) zone to the AI (Airport
                 Industrial) zone in order to develop a flex industrial park, located at approximately 3410 West Center
                 Street. Fort Utah Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
                 PLRZ20220089


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 08, 2023:

                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Conditions of Approval: That a Development Agreement by approved.

Motion By: Jonathon Hill
Second By: Barbara DeSoto
Votes in Favor of Motion: Jonathon Hill, Barbara DeSoto, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Andrew South
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
The property to be rezoned to the AI Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission also approved the related Concept Plan at the November 8, 2023 hearing (Item #3,
PLCP20220337)

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*277 Total parking stalls required
*301 Total parking stalls provided

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Applies - referred applicant to Council Attorney.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff addressed additional questions from the Commission during the hearing.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.
• Traffic study may be required with future stages of approval.

                                                        Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held in 2022.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None were raised at the hearing.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Norm Avery addressed questions and concerns from the Commission and stated that the project will provide
       public access to the open space and make connection to trail network to the east; he will work with staff to
       guarantee such. He also stated that he will follow the ordinances for buffer requirements from the adjacent
       residential properties.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Planning Commissioners asked questions to staff regarding the open space, parking, and traffic patterns associated
       with the proposal. There was more discussion on surrounding trail networks and a desire to connect to those.
   • A formal motion made by Lisa Jensen and seconded by Barabara DeSoto recognized the concern and desire to
       require trail access and connection as the rezone request goes to the City Council. This was supported 6:0.
   • The Commissioners discussed the proposal, stating that it is what was expected when the General Plan was
       amended in 2022, and that the details of the plan should be worked out as it moves forward.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours
   are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS


                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 3
