                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    February 26, 2020

Item 2*   Provo City Council Office requests various minor amendments to Titles 14 and 15 to clarify language related to
          accessory living spaces, bicycle parking, design standard references, and the impact fee schedule. City Wide Impact.
          Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20200042

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 26, 2020:

                                           Recommend Approval
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted
application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Robert Knudsen, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, and Maria Winden
Maria Winden acted as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
      changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and
      determination.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
 conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included
 the following: Staff gave an overview of the proposal and purpose of the ordinance text amendment.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • Kaleb Stark asked for clarification on the proposed amendments to Subsection 14.14A.020 and 14.50(9).020 of the
    City Code. This individual appeared to be interested in provisions that may affect the ability to locate accessory
    living spaces in a detached accessory structure.

 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:

 •   Lisa Jensen asked staff if the amendments to Subsection 14.14A.020 and 14.50(9).020 would impact the allowance
     for accessory living spaces or accessory apartments in the City. Staff stated that amendments were simply to clarify
     terminology.
 •   Andrew Howard commented that instead of using a specific date in the amendment of Subsection 15.08.060(1) of
     the Provo City Code—involving impact fees calculation—consideration should be given to referencing the
     applicable current document, so that this subsection would not need to be amended each time the date is changed.
                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West
100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office
hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
