                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 09, 2022


ITEM #3        Steve Turley requests Concept Plan approval for a mixed-use development with apartments, townhomes,
               twinhomes, and commercial use in a proposed VLDR, LDR, MDR, and CG zone mix over 5.2 acres of
               land, located at 2075 West Center Street. Provo Bay Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404
               aardmore@provo.org PLCP20210398


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
March 09, 2022:


                                                 CONTINUED
On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Brian Henrie, Daniel
Gonzales, Peter Fife, Miles Miller
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

•    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
     Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission also continued the related rezone (Item #4 – PLRZ20210271) at the March 9th hearing.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
   • Planning staff and Public Works staff responded to questions from the Planning Commission and verified that the
       overall sewer capacity and infrastructure for the west side of Provo is based off the Southwest Area Future Land
       Use Map (appendix J of the General Plan).

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.
• Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 12/2/2021.




                                                        Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• A Neighborhood Chair was present and addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
• This item affected multiple neighborhoods.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
   • Jonathan Hill (Fort Utah neighborhood chair) shared a concern about the number of units and believes that the
       densities set by the Southwest Land Use Map and Public Works need to be followed.
   • Jeff Miller stated he lives nearby and doesn’t want three-story buildings that close to his home, is concerned about
       the traffic, and think it is too much for the property.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Steve Turley addressed the Planning Commission with an overview of his proposal and a slideshow. Mr. Turley
       shared his analysis of how he believes the proposal meets the policies outlined in the General Plan.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Brian Henrie asked staff about the status and connection of 2050 West as it is planned as a minor arterial to
       connect into Lakeview Parkway.
   • Peter Fife asked about the boundaries for the residential and mixed-use land uses and their densities.
   • Lisa Jensen asked how flexible the borders of the zones are in the General Plan.
   • Miles Miller confirmed the overall density of four units per acre for residential on the west side.
   • The Planning Commission discussed the types of commercial and what the demand would be for this area.
   • Laurie Urquiaga believes that the MDR area could work for more density but has concerns with the LDR and
       VLDR zone areas.
   • Dave Anderson stated he doesn’t mind the density if there is demand for it but would like to see a more consistent
       design along 2050 West with improved elevations and site design.
   • Lisa Jensen would support mixed-use on the north with single-family product on the south, but a transition
       between the two. She believes it is important to stick to the numbers in the Southwest Land Use Map.
   • The Planning Commission discussed allowed building heights, flexibility of the mixed-use area of the Southwest
       Land Use Map, and what the best product types would be for the property. They encouraged a more walkable
       commercial area with a good street presence.
   • The Commission stated that having the mixed-use area on the property and it being adjacent to a minor arterial
       street gives reason to allow a denser product on a significant intersection, but that there needs to be design
       consistency and respect to the surrounding character of the neighborhood.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
   • The Commission believes that the applicant needs time to bring alternatives that address the intent of the area and
       sewer constraints and recommends that he come back to a future study session with different zone and concept
       layouts.




                                                      Page 2 of 3
                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
