                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                      May 13, 2020


ITEM 2           Todd Sinks requests Project Plan Approval for 736 apartment units, located at 178 E 1860 S in the Campus
                 Mixed Use zone. East Bay Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404, aardmore@provo.org
                 PLPPA20190183




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of May
13, 2020:


                                                 CONTINUED
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to May 13, 2020.


Motion By: Andrew Howard
Second By: Maria Winden
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Maria Winden, Deborah Jensen, Dave Anderson, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa
Jensen, Robert Knudsen
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

•    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
     Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following: Staff gave an overview of the project proposal, including the request for a parking count reduction per Section
14.37.050, Provo City Code. The proposal was updated from the notice language to show a phase one request of 315
apartments with 473 parking stalls, rather than 736 apartments.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    •    Melanie McCoard stated that she believes the parking for the project is not sufficient and wondered if a
         Development Agreement could include an adjustment clause to make up for parking in the second phase.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The applicant had updated numbers, different from the staff report and staff presentation. He requested 325 units
       with 520 parking stalls to provide a 1.6 stall to unit parking ratio.
   • The applicant stated that he thought the site plan was to code and ready to go.
   • In response to concerns with the north facing façade, the applicant said he could look at improving that elevation.
   • In response to questions on the numbers and design elements asked by the Commission, the applicant stated he
       did not know.
   • Applicant stated that he could look at using phase two land for extra parking, but it could be difficult with Division
       of Environmental Quality standards.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The north side elevation was a concern for many Commission members, that it was a “dead” wall that needs more
       interaction with the street.
   • Most Commission members were concerned with the lack of sure parking numbers, and some felt that what was
       being proposed lacked enough parking for the project.
   • The Commission discussed timing with the school, and with phase two; hoping that parking overflow could be
       worked into either of those adjacent properties.
   • Deborah Jensen noted that the parking garage did not seem to be designed to flow efficiently, nor did it appear to
       have proper air circulation.
   • Laurie Urquiaga stated that an entrance/exit on the northwest corner would be helpful with UVX riders.
   • Planning Commission members felt uncomfortable not knowing the unit type breakdown for the new numbers
       presented by the applicant.
   • There was some discussion on a possible Development Agreement for the project.
   • Commission thought that the drawings and numbers needed to be updated to be accurate with the proposal.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
   • That the unit and parking numbers need to be updated.
   • That the north elevation design needs to be improved.
   • That the parking overflow needs to be addressed.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
