                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   November 11, 2020


 Item 4*       The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to
               remove references to "Community Development Director" in Titles 2, 6, 7, 13, 14, 15, and 16 of the
               Provo City Code. Citywide application. Robert Mills (801) 852-6407 rmills@provo.org
               PLOTA20200310


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 11, 2020:


                                  RECOMMOMEND APPROVAL
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council continue the above noted application

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Brian Henrie
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga, and Brian Henrie
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


 STAFF/APPLICANT PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following:
    • With the split in the Community Development Department, staff is recommending changing the references to the
        “Community Development Director” to either “Development Services Director” or “Community and
        Neighborhood Services Director.”

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • There was no neighborhood chair or public comment.


 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioners agreed with the recommended amendment.
                 Planning Commission Chair




       Director of Development Services Department

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
   application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community and Neighborhood Services
   Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).
             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
