                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                       July 10, 2024

    *Item 2        Liisa Hancock requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Section 14.38.025 (On-Premises Short
                   Hold Time Electronic Display Sign Standards) to add allowance on University Avenue between
                   Cougar Blvd and University Pkwy. Carterville Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404
                   aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20240164



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of July
10, 2024:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 4:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Adam Shin
Second By: Barbara DeSoto
Votes in Favor of Motion: Adam Shin, Barbara DeSoto, Jeff Whitlock, Jonathon Hill
(Melissa Kendall abstained)
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•      Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
       noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
    • Staff responded to questions from the Commission on other areas of the city that allow electronic signs of this
        type.
    • Staff summarized restrictions for the sign in response to questions from Planning Commissioners.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting will be held on 08/21/2024.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.


                                                        Page 1 of 3
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • An email from Anna Smith was received after the staff report was written indicating concerns for the proposal
        due to safety concerns associated with electronic signage.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Liisa Hancock described that the sign will be placed on the south side of the of the frontage, away from the
       residential zones to the north.
   • Ms. Hancock also gave an overview of the request and justification for the proposal.
   • Mitch Adams (a tenant in the building at 1355 N) described his need for the sign.
   • Brad Holmes (manager of the 1355 N building) detailed the use of the building and justification for the sign.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jonathon Hill recommended that the city look at making the allowances for electronic signs more consistent and
       standardized to help the public and staff to understand where they are permitted.
   • The Commission discussed the proposal, that the applicant had addressed all the concerns, and that the proposal
       will have a very limited impact and seems to be consistent with the area.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 3
