                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 27, 2021


 ITEM #2       Shawn Poor requests Project Plan approval for 245 apartments located at 2300 N University Parkway in
               the Interim Transit Oriented Development (ITOD) zone. Carterville Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore
               (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPPA20210205



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 27, 2021:


                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Dave Anderson, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga,
Brian Henrie
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*245 Total Units
*Type of occupancy approved: Family

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*328 Total parking stalls required
*363 Total parking stalls provided

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.


                                                        Page 1 of 2
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. There were no public comments during the hearing.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Shawn Poor gave an overview of the project and responded to the questions from Planning Commission.
   • Mr. Poor indicated that shared parking will be allowed per the CC&R recorded on the property, and that there are
       not assigned spaces for the apartments.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission asked about the covered parking on the site, the amenity and open space calculations,
       and parking counts and availability.
   • The Planning Commission noted their appreciation for the variety of units in the buildings and felt that the
       proposed project should be a good fit for the location.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
