                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   December 07, 2022


*ITEM #5      Provo City Development Services request Ordinance Text Amendments to Chapters 14.34, 14.38,
              14.14E, and 14.14C, Provo City Code, to clarify standards and update codes. Citywide application. Aaron
              Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20220359



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
December 07, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew South, Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales, Raleen Wahlin, Melissa Kendall
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were not present or did not address the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

                                                       Page 1 of 12
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Daniel Gonzales asked staff for some clarification on the trash screening requirements in Section 14.34.080.
   • Andrew South noted that these changes are clear and will be helpful to clarify standards.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 12
                                                    EXHIBIT A

14.34.500
Fencing Standards for Residential Zones.

Fencing in the One-Family Residential (R1), Residential Conservation (RC), Very Low Density Residential (VLDR),
Low Density Residential (LDR), Medium Density Residential (MDR), High Density Residential (HDR), Campus
Mixed-Use (CMU), Neighborhood Mixed-Use (NMU), and Mixed-Use (MU) Zones shall comply with the
following standards:

(1) Structural fences six (6)seven (7) feet or less in height shall not require a building permit. Structural fences
over six (6)seven (7) feet in height shall require a building permit from the Building Inspection Division. A
structural fence or vegetative fence shall not create a sight-distance hazard to vehicular or pedestrian traffic as
defined in Section 14.34.100, Provo City Code, and as determined by the Provo City Traffic Engineer. Fencing
materials are limited to lumber, vinyl, chain-link, masonry, wrought iron and decorative metal, vegetation or
other similar fencing materials. Pallets, scrap metal, tarps or other non-fencing materials are not permitted.
Any fence, wall, gate, hedge or structure maintained in such condition of deterioration or disrepair as to
constitute a nuisance or a hazard to persons or property shall be repaired or replaced. Standards for barbed
wire and similar types of fences are listed in Section 9.14.020, Provo City Code.

    (a) Front Yard. Solid walls, fences or hedges which are sight obscuring may be built to a maximum of
    three (3) feet in height in any required front yard perimeter. Such walls, fences, or hedges may slope
    upward to connect to a higher side yard fence. The length of a sloped fence section shall not exceed one
    (1) section or a maximum of ten (10) feet. Walls, fences or hedges which are not sight obscuring (at least
    fifty percent (50%) open) may be built to a maximum of six (6) feet in height in a front yard.

    (b) Side Yard. Solid sight-obscuring fences or walls and non-sight-obscuring fences (at least fifty percent
    (50%) open) may be built to a maximum of six (6)seven (7) feet.

    (c) Rear Yard. Walls and fences in a rear yard may exceed six (6)seven (7) feet; provided, that a building
    permit is first obtained from the Building Inspection Division prior to construction.

    (d) Corner Lots. A fence not more than six (6)seven (7) feet in height may be constructed in a side yard
    adjacent to a public street on a corner lot, provided it does not extend into the clear vision area of a
    corner lot as defined by Section 14.34.100, Provo City Code.

    (e) Entryways. Entry treatments to private driveways or subdivision development entrances may not
    exceed six (6) feet at the highest point, except lamps on pillars, and must comply with the provisions of
                                                    Page 3 of 12
    Section 14.34.100, Provo City Code. Pillars shall be allowed to extend up to eighteen (18) inches above the
    allowable height of a fence; provided, that the pillars shall have a minimum spacing of no less than six (6)
    feet, measured face to face.

    (f) Grade Differences. Where there is a difference in the grade of the properties on either side of a fence,
    wall or other similar structure, the height of the fence shall be measured from the natural grade of the
    property upon which it is located.

    (g) Retaining Walls. Where a retaining wall protects a cut below or a fill above the natural grade and is
    located on the line separating lots or properties, such retaining wall may be topped by a fence, wall or
    hedge of the same height that would otherwise be permitted at the location if no retaining wall existed.

    (h) Privacy Walls. Privacy walls which project into a required front yard may be built to a maximum of
    three (3) feet.

    (i) Double Frontage Lots. A fence or wall may be erected in the rear yard of a double frontage lot to a
    maximum of six (6)seven (7) feet if the rear yard fencing is common to the street, subject to staff review.


14.34.080
Trash Storage, Abandoned, Wrecked, or Junked Vehicles; Miscellaneous Materials.

(1) It shall be unlawful to park, store or leave or permit the parking, storing, or leaving of any licensed or
unlicensed motor vehicle of any kind or part(s) thereof which is in a wrecked, junked, partially dismantled,
inoperative, or abandoned condition, whether attended or not, upon any private property within the City limits
of the City of Provo for a period of time in excess of seventy-two (72) hours, except that two (2) or fewer such
vehicles or parts thereof may be stored if within a building, or placed behind an opaque screening fence; and
except that said vehicles and parts may be within a junk yard or automobile wrecking yard lawfully established
pursuant to the provisions of this Title. For the purposes of this Title, any vehicle that is not currently licensed
and insured to the minimum levels established by state law shall be considered inoperable.

(2) The accumulation and storage of more than two (2) such vehicles or part(s) thereof, as defined above, on
private property except as set forth above shall constitute a nuisance, detrimental to the health, safety, and
welfare of the inhabitants of the City of Provo. It shall be the duty of the owner of such vehicle or part(s)
thereof or lessee or other person in possession of private property upon which such vehicle or part(s) thereof
is located, to remove the same from such property or take other remedial action as directed by the City.

(3) No trash, used materials, junk, household furniture, appliances, scrap material, equipment or parts
thereof shall be stored in an open area. The accumulation of more than one (1) such item constitutes a junk

                                                    Page 4 of 12
yard as defined in Chapter 14.06, Provo City Code, and must be removed from the property, stored within an
enclosed building, or be properly located in an M2 zone.

(4) Storage of commercial goods or materials is prohibited unless permitted by the underlying zone. Trash
storage containers shall be maintained in a location approved by the Planning Commission in conjunction with
approval of a project plan or as required by Section 11.03.090 Solid Waste Containers. Trash storage container
locations approved in conjunction with a project plan shall meet the following requirements:

    (a) Trash storage containers shall be screened with durable materials architecturally compatible with the
    principal structure or perimeter fence/wall treatment located on the lot served. Such containers shall not
    be visiblebe screened from any abutting lot or public street.

    (b) Trash storage container enclosures shall not project into a required yard unless authorized by
    conditional use permit issued pursuant to Chapter 14.02, Provo City Code.

    (c) Trash storage containers located on a lot used for nonresidential purposes and which abuts a
    residential zone shall meet the setback requirements of Section 14.34.300, Provo City Code.

    (d) The foregoing standards shall be applied according to the following considerations, listed in order of
    importance:

         (i) Ease of access by trash removal vehicles.

         (ii) Setback and screening of trash storage containers to minimize any potential odor nuisance, and
         to obscure the view from any abutting lot or public street.

         (iii) Ease of access by users of trash storage containers.

    (e) The provisions of this Subsection shall apply to trash storage containers of two (2) cubic yard capacity
    and larger. These provisions shall not apply to ninety (90) gallon trash storage containers provided by
    Provo City.

(5) It shall be a class B misdemeanor to maintain or store on any property within Provo City; injurious or
noxious weeds, garbage, refuse, or unsightly or deleterious objects or structures when such may constitute
either a health hazard, a present danger to the citizens of the city, a potential source of contagious disease, a
harborage for rats or other rodents, or other carriers of disease, a fire hazard, or an attractive nuisance likely
to cause injury to small children.




                                                    Page 5 of 12
14.38.010
General Requirements.

The following general requirements shall apply to all signs and outdoor advertising structures which may be
erected or maintained within the City of Provo.

(1) Sign Approval. Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful and a class C misdemeanor to erect or
maintain any sign or outdoor advertising structure in the City of Provo without first obtaining the approval of
the Planning Commission for said sign or advertising structure, the giving of which shall be based upon the
provisions of this Title.

(2) Permits. The approval of the Planning Commission shall be evidenced by a permit issued by the Building
Inspection Division. All signs shall be constructed and all permits shall be issued in accordance with the
provisions of the International Building Code. Permits for off-premises nonconforming signs shall be renewed
on an annual basis. Applications for permits, or for the renewal of permits, shall require the applicant to
disclose the owner of the sign and the owner of the property on which the sign is or will be located, all
relevant dates in regard to expiration of any lease or lease option, the date and cost of construction of the
sign, the date and cost of any modification of the sign, the fair market value as appraised for property tax
purposes, the date the sign will be depreciated for federal income tax purposes, the cost of operating the sign,
and any other information reasonably required by the Planning Commission. A permit may be revoked and a
sign removed pursuant to Subsection (7) of this Section if the applicant for a permit makes a false or
misleading statement in the permit application or renewal.

(3) Electronic Display and Animated Signs. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, all animated signs
are prohibited. On-premises electronic display signs are prohibited in all Project Redevelopment Option (PRO)
zones, the Special Development Plan (SDP) Overlay zone, the Downtown Historic district, and the A, RA, RC, R1,
R2, VLDR, LDR, MDR, and HDR zones, but are permitted elsewhere. Businesses using electronic display signs
are subject to the business licensing regulations contained in Chapter 6.06, Provo City Code. On-premises
short hold time electronic display signs are prohibited in all zones, except as otherwise provided in Section
14.38.025, Provo City Code.

(4) Sound or Emissions. No sign shall be designed for the purpose of emitting sound, smoke, or steam.

(5) Movable Signs, Banners, and A-Frame Signs. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter, all movable
signs, banners and A-frame signs are prohibited. This prohibition shall include signs mounted or painted upon
vehicles or trailers which are parked in any location for the purpose of calling attention to or advertising a
person, place, or thing.

                                                   Page 6 of 12
(6) Canopy Signs. Signs painted on or affixed to canopies which are part of the building shall be considered
part of the total allowed area of wall signs for the walls from which the canopy projects. Signs painted on or
affixed to canopies which are freestanding shall be considered part of the total allowable area of freestanding
signs for that use. Signs suspended under canopies (marquees) which project over public rights-of-way shall
be limited to six (6) square feet. Signs with changeable copy (reader boards) located on marquees of theaters
or similar public assembly uses may combine the total allowable area for all building faces as permitted by
Section 14.38.140, Provo City Code, so long as there are no wall signs placed upon building faces other than
the face to which the marquee is attached.

(7) Lighting. See Chapter 15.21, Provo City Code.

(7)(8) Violations.

    (a) It is unlawful to erect or maintain a sign contrary to the provisions of this Chapter. If a sign is erected
    or maintained in violation of this Chapter the Planning Commission may do the following:

         (i) Order the defect corrected within a fixed period of time, not exceeding thirty (30) days, if
         correction of the defect will bring the subject sign into compliance with the provisions of this Chapter;
         but

         (ii) If correction of the defect will result in a violation of the provisions of this Chapter, order that the
         subject sign be removed by, and at the expense of, the owner of the sign, within a fixed period of time
         not exceeding thirty (30) days.

    (b) If the owner of the sign contests the order of the Planning Commission, the remedy shall be an
    appeal to the zoning Board of Adjustment, which appeal shall be taken in the time and manner otherwise
    provided in this Title for appeals to the zoning Board of Adjustment.

    (c) If the owner of the sign fails or refuses to remove the subject sign at the order of the Planning
    Commission, the City may remove the sign at any time after the owner thereof exhausts the owner’s
    administrative remedies in relation thereto, unless otherwise ordered by a court of law. Removal by the
    City shall be at the expense of the owner, and the City may obtain judgment against the owner in an
    amount equal thereto, together with reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs.




                                                     Page 7 of 12
14.34.310
One-family Detached Dwellings.

Any detached one-family dwelling located on an individual lot must meet the off-street parking requirements
in Chapter 14.37, Provo City Code and the following standards in addition to any others required by law except
as provided in Subsection 14.34.310(1), Provo City Code. Exemption: All one-family dwellings for which
building permits were issued prior to August 21, 1990, are exempt from the requirements of this Section.
Neither shall compliance with these regulations be required of units existing prior to the adoption of this
Section if such units are later remodeled except as otherwise provided in this Title.

(1) The dwelling must meet the requirements of the Provo City Building Code or, if it is a manufactured home,
must meet the requirements of the HUD Code and must not have been altered in violation of such codes. A
used manufactured dwelling must be inspected by the Chief Building Official or the Chief Building Official’s
designee prior to placement on a lot to insure it has not been altered in violation of such codes. Any violations
must be corrected as directed by the Chief Building Official. Manufactured homes shall be multiple
transportable sections.

(2) The dwelling must be taxed as real property. If the dwelling is a manufactured home, an affidavit must be
filed with the State Tax Commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 59-2-602.

(3) The dwelling must be approved for and permanently connected to all required utilities.

(4) Each dwelling shall have a site-built concrete, masonry, steel or treated wood foundation capable of
transferring design dead loads and live loads and other design loads unique to local home sites, due to wind,
seismic and water conditions, that are imposed by or upon the structure into the underlying soil or bedrock,
without failure. All foundations shall be designed in accordance with Provo City adopted building codes, the
manufacturer’s recommendations, NCSBCS Standards, or an approved engineered design. All perimeter
footings must be a minimum of thirty (30) inches below grade for frost protection. All tie-down devices must
meet Provo City adopted building codes, the manufacturer’s recommendations, NCSBCS Standards, or an
approved engineered design. The space beneath the structure must be enclosed at the perimeter of the
dwelling in accordance with the manufacturer’s recommendations or NCSBCS Standards and constructed of
materials that are weather resistant and aesthetically consistent with concrete or masonry type foundation
materials. All manufactured home running gear, tongues, axles, and wheels must be removed at the time of
installation.

(5) Dwellings shall have a roof surface of wood shakes, asphalt shingles, composition shingles, wood shingles,
concrete tiles, fiberglass tiles, slate tiles, or built-up gravel materials. Unfinished galvanized steel or unfinished

                                                     Page 8 of 12
aluminum roofing shall not be permitted. There shall be a roof overhang at the eaves and gable ends of not
less than six (6) inches, excluding rain gutters, measured from the vertical side of the dwelling. The roof
overhang requirement shall not apply to areas above porches, alcoves and other appendages which together
do not exceed twenty-five percent of the length of the dwelling.

(6) Dwellings shall have exterior siding material consisting of wood (excluding plywood, particle board or
other wood products not intended as an architectural finish product), hardwood, brick, concrete, stucco, glass,
metal or vinyl lap, tile, or stone, or an aesthetically pleasing combination of these materials.

(7) The width of the dwelling shall be at least twenty (20) feet at the narrowest point of its first story, exclusive
of any garage area, as viewed from the front lot-line, to create a front entry to the home as viewed from the
street; this portion of the dwelling shall have a depth (front to rear) of at least twenty (20) feet.

(8) One-family detached dwellings in the R1.10 zone shall be provided with an attached or detached garage or
carport, designed with the same architectural style and materials as the main dwelling and constructed
concurrently with the dwelling and having a minimum interior width and length of twenty (20) feet. See
Section 14.37.100, Provo City Code.

(9) One-family detached dwellings in all other zones shall be provided with an attached or detached garage or
carport, designed with the same architectural style and materials as the main dwelling and constructed
concurrently with the dwelling and having a minimum interior width of twenty (20) feet and interior length of
twenty (20) feet for two (2) parking spaces, a minimum interior width of ten (1) feet six (6) inches and a
minimum interior length of twenty (20) feet for one (1) parking space; such space shall be free of stairs or
other build obstructions.having a minimum interior width of twelve (12) feet and length of twenty (20) feet,
except that garages for multiple-level one-family dwellings shall have a minimum interior width and length of
twenty (20) feet. See Section 14.37.100, Provo City Code.


14.34.520
Educational Services as a Conditional Use.

Private educational services, when allowed as a conditional use, may be approved only in compliance with the
applicable zoning district regulations, Section 14.02.040, Provo City Code, and the following:

(1) Parking requirements must follow the provisions enumerated in Section 14.37.060, Provo City Code,
relating to schools.

(2) The applicant must submit a detailed parking and circulation plan prepared by an engineer, architect,
planner, or other similar professional. The conditional use may only be approved if the plan empirically

                                                     Page 9 of 12
concludes to the satisfaction of Planning Commission, or its designee, that the existing or proposed facility will
not negatively affect area traffic, surrounding land uses, or properties. The parking and circulation plan shall
include:

       (a) A designated drop-off and pick-up zone sufficient for the student population; and

       (b) Sufficient queuing space on the property to prevent vehicle back-ups on city streets during drop-off
       and pick-up times.

(3) Such use must conform to all applicable health, safety, and building codes.

(4) No exterior lighting may shine directly into adjoining properties.


14.34.250
Standards for Conditional Uses.

A conditional use permit is required for the following conditional uses when permitted in the zone and shall
only be approved in compliance with Section 14.02.040, Provo City Code. The uses shall comply with the
requirements of this Section and shall also comply with any additional conditions resulting from a Planning
Commission hearing.

(12)      Educational Services.

          (a) Parking requirements must follow the provision enumerated in Section 14.37.060, Provo City Code,
          relating to schools.

          (b) The applicant must submit a detailed parking and circulation plan prepared by an engineer,
          architect, planner, or other similar professional. The conditional use may only be approved if the plan
          empirically concludes to the satisfaction of Planning Commission, or its designee, that the existing or
          proposed facility will not negatively affect area traffic, surrounding land uses, or properties. The
          parking and circulation plan shall include:

                 (i) A designated drop-off and pick-up zone sufficient for the student population; and

                 (ii) Sufficient queuing space on the property to prevent vehicle back-ups on city streets during
                 drop-off and pick-up times.

          (c) Such use must conform to all applicable health, safety, and building codes.

          (d) No exterior lighting may shine directly into adjoining properties.




                                                        Page 10 of 12
14.34.100
Clear Vision Area - Corner Lots.

In all zones which require a front yard, no structure in excess of three (3) feet in height shall be placed on any
corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street property lines and the line connecting them at points
twenty-five (25) feet from the intersection of the street lines., with the following exceptions:

       (a) Street trees and other landscaping are permitted which are pruned and trimmed so as to not
           obstruct a clear view by motor vehicle drivers, as determined by the City Engineer.

       (b) City wayfinding and traffic control signs.


14.14E.010
Purpose and Objectives.

The Campus Mixed-Use (CMU) zone is established to provideencourage high density housing and to give the
option for a mix of residential and commercial uses near Brigham Young University. The densities permitted
by the zone are intended to encourage redevelopment of land for residential uses where property values are
high and demolition is necessary. The uses typically permitted in this zone are apartments, baching
apartments, and condominiums. andThe zone also allows for ground-floor neighborhood commercial services
for the convenience of those living in the area (neighborhood commercial).


14.14E.090
Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (see Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code).

(2) Landscaping (see Chapter 15.20, Provo City Code).

(3) Trash storage (see Section 14.34.080, Provo City Code).

(4) Fencing (see Section 14.34.500, Provo City Code).

(5) Parking, Loading and Access. Each land use in the CMU zone shall have automobile parking sufficient to
comply with the requirements of Chapter 14.37, Provo City Code.

(6) In any new project consisting of twenty (20) or more residential units, an area equivalent to ten percent
(10%) of the residential gross floor area shall be developed in residential amenities, such as a common


                                                   Page 11 of 12
clubhouse, gym, pool, rooftop garden, or other amenity. This space must be massed or accumulated to be
functional as a recreational or gathering space.

Landscaping within the required setbacks shall not be calculated towards meeting this provision.

(7) In any new project consisting of twenty (20) or more residential units, the open space must be massed or
accumulated to be functional as a recreational amenity or gathering space.

(8)(7) Each first floor commercial frontage situated along a public street shall provide an entry door and a
minimum of thirty percent (30%) completely transparent glass on street-facing facades.


14.14C.050
Yard Requirements.

Yards shall be provided according to the requirements listed below: (Note: All setbacks are measured from the
property line.)

(1) Front yard: ten (10) feet minimum, twenty (20) feet maximum(maximum).

(2) Side yard, street: ten (10) feet minimum, twenty (20) feet maximum(maximum).




                                                   Page 12 of 12
