                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      July 28, 2021


 Item 2*     Community and Neighborhood Services requests a Zone Change from R1-10 Single Family Residential to Open
             Space Preservation and Recreation (OSPR) for approximately 26.11 acres located near the access area to Slate
             Canyon. Provost Neighborhood. Melissa McNalley (801) 852-6164 mmcnalley@provo.org PLRZ20210237

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of July
28, 2021:


                                     RECOMMEND APPROVAL
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended the Municipal Council approve the above zone change.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Ally Jones
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Dan Gonzales, Ally Jones, David Knudsen, Laurie Urquiaga, and
Brian Henrie
 Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF/APPLICANT PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following:
   • A zone change from R1.10 to OSPR on approximately 26.11 acres of land in the Provost South neighborhood.
   • The subject property is at the mouth of Slate Canyon and is in the critical hillside overlay zone.
   • The General Plan map of Provo designates this parcel as Agricultural.
   • Specific parcel pertinent to the zone change were presented to the planning commission.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • Comments from one neighborhood resident, Kyle Clawson were in favor of the zone change siting a desire to see
    that parcel cleaned and a more welcoming space.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
Commissioner Jones stated that she loved the idea and it’s a 10 out of 10. Commissioner Urquiaga stated she sees no
reason not to do this zone change.




                 Planning Commission Chair




     Planning Supervisor Community & Neighborhood
                  Services Department

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan , applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West
    100 South, Provo, Uta h, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office
    hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
EXHIBIT 1 – CURRENT ZONING
EXHIBIT 2- PROPOSED ZONING
