                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    August 28, 2024


    ITEM #6      Jamie Chapmen requests Project Plan approval for phase 2 of the River District Residential project,
                 building 24 additional townhomes over 3.18 acres, in a proposed MDR (Medium Density Residential)
                 Zone. Riverbottoms Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
                 PLPPA20230330

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
August 28, 2024:


                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Jonathon Hill
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Jonathon Hill, Lisa Jensen, Jeff Whitlock, Barbara DeSoto, Melissa Kendall, Andrew South,
Adam Shin
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
Planning Commission recommended approval of the related Rezone (PLRZ20230328, Item #5, August 28th agenda).
APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*24 Total Units
*Type of occupancy approved: Family
APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*60Total parking stalls required
*73 Total parking stalls provided
*3 Required parking stalls per unit
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Applies - referred applicant to Council Attorney.
STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff also responded to Planning Commission questions regarding the Provo River access,
ownership, and General Plan designation.




                                                        Page 1 of 2
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 02/03/2022.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• Robert Hammond sent an email to staff and the Planning Commission encouraging commitment to the pedestrian trail
    along the Provo River.
• Sharon Memmott expressed concerns regarding the final product matching what is shown in the plans, and hoped
    commitments would be made with the zone change as it reaches the City Council.
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jim Ivory summarized the history of the project and the current requests and answered Planning Commission
       questions regarding access to/through the site, open space, and potential of floods.
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Planning Commission discussed the details of the plans and verified with staff that the project meets the code
       requirements of the MDR Zone.
   • Commissioner Whitlock verified that the concerns brought up by the public will be addressed in a future
       development agreement. The Commission also confirmed that the site improvements and amenities will be
       completed prior to the final certificate of occupancy.
   • The Commission felt comfortable with the proposal as it is finishing up a project that is already being constructed,
       but mentioned the need to include the trail as a guarantee and expressed disappointment that no units will be for
       sale.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
    an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
    Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                           Page 2 of 2
