                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  September 25, 2024


    ITEM #2      Development Services request Concept Plan approval for a 6-unit townhome development in a
                 proposed LDR (Low Density Residential) Zone, located at 1992 North Geneva Road. Lakeview North
                 Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20240253

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 25, 2024:


                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Adam Shin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Adam Shin, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Jonathon Hill,
Barbara DeSoto, Andrew South.
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission recommended approval on the related zone change (PLRZ20240252, September 25, 2024
agenda, item #1).

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
6 Total Units
Type of occupancy approved: Family
Standard Land Use Code 1112

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
14 Total parking stalls required
14 Total parking stalls provided
2.25 Required parking stalls per unit

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.
• May apply with future approvals.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff also answered Planning Commission questions regarding the neighborhood meeting, density
allowed with the General Plan, parking, and site design. Staff also gave an overview of the surrounding zones.
                                                       Page 1 of 3
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting will be held October 30th, 2024.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • An email from a neighbor, Tanner Nordstrom, was sent to the Planning Commission after the staff report, but
        prior to the hearing, and noted concerns regarding the applicability of the Lakeview Fields CCRs from the
        neighborhood to the east.
    • Linda Brown shared her concerns about parking and renting to students.
    • Don Bahr stated that the idea is good, but six units is too many in his opinion.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Sarah Van Cleeve (Provo Housing/Utah Community Land Trust) addressed the Planning Commission and gave
       more detail on the deed restrictions, land trust, and how the financing will work to keep the home prices lower
       than market prices. She noted that a small HOA fee will be charged to maintain the grounds.
   • Sarah also answered questions about occupancy for the homes, sale of the homes, and program requirements.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission confirmed that the units will not be allowed for subletting or renting out because of
       the land trust rules; and that six units is what works for the project (in addressing public comments).
   • The Commission discussed the 2/3 of market value cost is a good value for city employees, that the land trust is
       a good tool.
   • The Commission went over site design, including traffic and parking demands and design options with the LDR
       Zone. They recommended that fences are included for the front yard and guest parking be signed on the site.
   • There was overall support among the Commission for the idea, that it is a good fit for the area, that the landlord
       will ensure the property is kept up, and it meets a need for the city.
   • The Planning Commission recommended that the Council waits to make a decision until after the neighborhood
       meeting.




               Planning Commission Chair



            Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.
                                                      Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
