                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   September 27, 2023

 *ITEM 4     David Peterson requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to the Interim Transit Oriented Development Zone
             building height Section 14.23.090 of the Provo City Code, to remove the building step-back requirement at
             the fifth floor. Citywide Application. Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLOTA20230160

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 27, 2023:
                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Jeff Whitlock
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Andrew South, Barbara DeSoto, Raleen
Wahlin, Lisa Jensen, Jonathan Hill, Melissa Kendall
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • Citywide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.
 • This item was placed on Open City Hall.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
 • The public did not address the Planning Commission during the public hearing.



                                                        Page 1 of 3
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• This will be a good change to the code.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• There was a discussion about daylight reaching the streets. Provo has very wide street widths which allow for daylight
   to reach the streets. Removing the step-back requirement would have minimal impact. In the warmer months the shade
   is desired.
• The step-back is beneficial in the Historic District to help ensure that new developments fit the scale of the historic
   buildings. In the ITOD zone we do not have that same situation and so the step-back is impeding development and
   not providing a needed benefit.
• This is not required in the downtown zone and there have not been issues. We decided as a city that this is the area
   where we want to have this kind of development and so this amendment will help make best use of the limited land
   area.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
   City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                      Exhibit A
14.23.090 – Building Height.

The total maximum building height within the ITOD zone shall not exceed one hundred (100) feet
according to the following:

(1) Building height shall be measured in number of stories, excluding basement areas;

(2) Each building shall not have less than two (2) stories. The fifth story and each story above it shall
have an additional setback of no less than fifteen (15) feet from the first story building elevation
adjacent to any street;

(3) Each story within the ITOD zone shall not exceed fourteen (14) feet except for first story
commercial functions may be up to twenty feet (20);

(4) Parapet walls and cornices shall not exceed five (5) feet, except as otherwise provided in Section
14.34.090, Provo City Code;

(5) Residential main floor level shall not exceed three (3) feet in height above street curb elevation;

(6) Commercial main floor level shall not exceed one (1) foot in height above street curb elevation; and

(7) Mechanical equipment shall be screened. Only the minimal amount of screening necessary to fully
screen such equipment shall be used. Mechanical equipment shall be setback in such manner that the
required screening cannot be seen from the pedestrian street view, if possible.




                                            Page 3 of 3
