                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 23, 2024


    *ITEM #1      Provo City Council Office requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Section 14.34.440 (Second
                  Kitchen in One-Family Dwellings) to clarify and update standards. Citywide application. Melia
                  Dayley (801) 852-6136 mdayley@provo.org PLOTA20240272

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 23, 2024:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Adam Shin
Second By: Jeff Whitlock
Votes in Favor of Motion: Adam Shin, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Andrew South
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Melia Dayley gave an overview and background of the request from Council.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood District Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.


                                                        Page 1 of 4
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Melia Dayley responded to Planning Commission questions regarding the ability of code enforcement to inspect
       rental properties and occupancy for these properties. She clarified that this amendment would help clarify
       standards between ADUs and second kitchens.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Planning Commission noted that this proposal would simplify code and ease enforcement, while noting some
       reservations on the tone of the language there was overall support for the proposal.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 4
                                                   EXHIBIT A



14.34.440
Second Kitchen in One-family Dwellings.

(1) The existence of more than one kitchen in a one-family dwelling unit is prohibited, except as otherwise
provided in this Section.

(2) Two kitchens, but no more than two, are permitted in any residence in which an accessory dwelling unit
legally exists in compliance with the requirements of Chapter 14.30, including a valid, current rental dwelling
license.

(3) In a one-family dwelling unit without an accessory dwelling unit, oOne (1) or more additional kitchen(s) in a
one-family dwelling unit shall be are allowed only if the property is in an A1, RA, R1, or RC zone, including a
Performance Development Overlay (PD) zone used in combination with these zones, and if all of the following
requirements are met:

    (a) The dwelling unit shall have has only one (1) front entrance;.

    (b) The dwelling unit shall have has only one (1) address;.

    (c) An iInterior access isshall be maintained to all parts of the dwelling unit to asensure that an accessory
    apartment is not created. There shall may not be no keyed or dead bolt locks, or other manner of limiting
    or restricting access from the additional kitchen(s) to the remainder of the dwelling unit;.

    (d) The dwelling unit shall have has no more than one (1) electrical meter;.

    (e) The aAdditional kitchen(s) may exist as are part of the primary dwelling structure or are be installed in
    an accessory or “out” building, provided the use and occupancy limitations of this Section are met, and no
    second dwelling unit or accessory apartment is established in the primary or accessory buildings;.

    (f) Upon request made by Provo City staff, residents of the dwelling unit shall allow, within reasonable
    hours, an inspection by Provo City staff upon request of the dwelling unit and any building accessory to
    the dwelling unit, which has an additional kitchen, in order to determine compliance with this Section;.

    (g) The dwelling unit owner shall signs a notarized agreement, as prescribed on a form approved by
    Provo City, which provides that the dwelling unit, including any accessory building, will not and may not be
    converted into two (2) or more dwelling units unless allowed by, and in accordance with applicable
                                                    Page 3 of 4
    provisions of, this Title. The document mustshall be recorded with the Utah County Recorder’s Office prior
    to issuance of a building permit;.

    (h) When an additional kitchen is approved under the provisions of this Section, both present and future
    The owners of the dwelling unit shall limits the dwelling unit to family occupancy only; provided, however,
    that no additional unrelated persons, personal care providers, or personal service providers mayshall be
    permitted to occupy a one-family residence thatwhich contains an additional kitchen except as provided
    in Section 14.34.450, Provo City Code;. and

    (i) Construction of any such kitchen shall meets the standards of the adopted building code and may
    require is done pursuant to the issuance of a Provo City building permit prior to commencing any
    construction or remodeling to accommodate the additional kitchen.

(2) An additional kitchen shall not be established in a one-family dwelling unit which is associated with an
accessory living space, whether or not the accessory living space was established pursuant to Chapter 14.30,
Provo City Code.




                                                   Page 4 of 4
