                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                   September 28, 2022


Item #5         Craig Peterson requests Project Plan approval for student housing, located at 891 N 900 E in the Campus
                Mixed Use zone. Joaquin Neighborhood. Javin Weaver (801) 852-6413 jweaver@provo.org
                PLPPA20200362




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of
September 28, 2022:


                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval: That the Brickyard, Plat A Subdivision (PLFSUB20210337) be recorded at Utah County.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Raleen Wahlin, Melissa Kendall, Andrew South, Robert Knudsen, and Jeff
Whitlock

Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.
 •    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
      Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
 Design Review Committee approved the design of the project on September 22, 2022.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
Total number of units: 159
Total number of beds: 284
Type of occupancy approved: Baching

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
Total parking stalls required: 259
Total parking stalls provided: 259
Required parking stalls per unit: .80 per bed and 0.20 per unit.

                                                         Page 1 of 3
Total number of long-term bike parking: 162
Total number of short-term bike parking: 112

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
 • The use is permitted in the Campus Mixed-Use (CMU) Zone.
 • This use aligns with the Joaquin Neighborhood Plan.
 • The project meets all the Provo City Code requirements from the CMU zone.
 • The applicant has not asked for any reductions of the code requirements.
 • The applicant contacted the neighborhood chair when the project was submitted to Provo City and it was decided that
     no meeting would be required.
 • No neighborhood meeting is required when the land use zone already allows for the use.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair (Leo Lines) was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
 • Lines said that the building was massive, parking was not adequate, and there was no neighborhood meeting.
 • A letter was submitted to Development Services from Hannah Dixon who expressed concerned about parking at the
    project and the surrounding area.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
 • Craig Paterson discussed building height, affordability, amenities, ingress and egress of the structure, and the exterior
    design of the project.

 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
 • Melissa Kendall asked about the setbacks and was informed that the CMU Zone has a required setback.
 • Jeff Whitlock thought the increase of beds next to the University was a good thing for the area.
 • Lisa Jensen was pleased with the parking requirement being met and no reduction being proposed.
 • Lisa Jensen was impressed how this developer met all of the requirements of the CMU Zone. She noted the quality
    of a project can come from meeting said requirements.




                                                         Page 2 of 3
                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
