                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 23, 2024

    ITEM #7     Mykel Davis (BYU) requests Project Plan approval for the demolition and rebuild of the Cone
                Creamery building, located at 1209 North 900 East, in the CG (General Commercial) Zone. University
                Neighborhood. Nancy Robison (801) 8526417 nrobison@provo.org PLPPA20240206

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 23, 2024:


                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 4:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Adam Shin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Adam Shin, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Andrew South
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
Standard Land Use Code 5410

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
112 Total parking stalls required
140 Total parking stalls provided

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood District Chair.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.


                                                        Page 1 of 2
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
None

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:

The Commissioners were concerned about the safety of the pedestrians and bicyclists that would come to visit the
Creamery. They were especially concerned about younger children that come from the neighborhoods. They
recommended that bike parking be visible and in the front of the building. A sign could be placed to direct them to
overflow bike parking.
The commissioners would also like to see signage and stripping in the parking lot to ensure safety for those walking
through the area.
They were happy that the patio area would be made with heaters, and misters, that would accommodate use year-round.
The installation of a right-in and right-out entrance as well as a right hand turn lane was viewed as a positive for the traffic
flow around this corner.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                         Page 2 of 2
