                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  September 14, 2022


*ITEM #1       The Provo City Council Housing Committee is requesting approval of an Ordinance Text Amendment
               in Chapter 14.30, Accessory Dwelling Units. Citywide Application. Melia Dayley (801) 852-6136
               mdayley@provo.org PLOTA20220263




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 14, 2022:


                                                 CONTINUED
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to September 28, 2022.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Raleen Wahlin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Raleen Wahlin, Daniel Gonzales, Melissa Kendall, Andrew South
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission; Planning Commission determination is
     not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Melia Dayley gave an overview of the proposed text amendments and answered questions from
the Planning Commission.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• Multiple Neighborhood Chair(s) were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.




                                                       Page 1 of 11
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Becky Bogdin related concerns about enforcement in her neighborhood and more ADUs being difficult to enforce.
        She also stated her personal concerns of small homes and not enough space for large families to grow and stay in
        the home and neighborhood.
    • Steve LaPray also expressed concern about the proposed amendments and his email was given to the Commission.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Melia gave some background on housing committee discussions regarding the proposed amendments and
       described that raising occupancy could help the availability and affordability for housing with ADUs.
   • Melia offered to send the reports and data that the housing committee looked at to come to the proposed
       amendments to the Planning Commission to help them understand the background for the proposal.
   • Bill Peperone related that the City has a large enforcement staff that addresses complaints quickly, but they need
       to be told of violations to be able to correct them.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Robert Knudsen expressed concerns about ADUs on the west side due to a high-water table and asked for the
       reasons behind raising the occupancy from two to three on ADUs.
   • Melissa Kendall asked several questions regarding the need for more ADUs and wondered about the numbers on
       ADUs in the City, County, and State. She also expressed concerns about affordability, enforcement, and lack of
       timeline for exceptions within Chapter 14.30.
   • Daniel Gonzales confirmed with staff that a site plan to show required parking is part of the process to establish
       the ADU.
   • The Planning Commission discussed they support the idea but needed more time and information to address
       concerns with ADUs and enforcement.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
The Planning Commission expressed a desire for more information on the following issues to better evaluate the proposal
and make a recommendation:
   • How much does this proposal increase the % of ADUs in Provo?
   • How many rentals in Provo vs. other college towns and other large cities, like West Valley?
   • How will the city ensure owner-occupancy of houses with ADUs?
   • Information about similarly sized cities, surrounding communities, etc. and how they are doing ADUs




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services


                                                     Page 2 of 11
See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 11
EXHIBIT A




Page 4 of 11
Page 5 of 11
Page 6 of 11
Page 7 of 11
Page 8 of 11
Page 9 of 11
Page 10 of 11
Page 11 of 11
