                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    February 23, 2022


 ITEM #1        Brigham Young University is requesting Project Plan Approval for a new arts building in the PF (Public
                Facilities) zone, located approximately at 650 E Heritage Drive on the BYU campus. University
                Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPPA20220017



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 23, 2022:


                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval: That three (3) trees are added to the south parking lot.

Motion By: Brian Henrie
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Brian Henrie, Lisa Jensen, Dave Anderson, Laurie Urquiaga, Peter Fife, Ally Jones, Daniel
Gonzales, Robert Knudsen, Miles Miller
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were not present or did not address the Planning Commission.




                                                        Page 1 of 2
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Ray Bernier gave some background and intent information to the Planning Commission for the proposed project
       and answered questions in regard to the parking lot and pedestrian access, building details, and bicycle parking.
   • John Prespo responded to questions regarding parking lot landscaping and soil details.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Lisa Jensen asked the applicant to explain what superior design was being used in the parking lot landscaping to
       meet Section 15.20.020(2)(b). She also asked about the footprint of the proposed building in comparison to the
       existing HFAC.
   • Brian Henrie suggested the use of permeable pavers in the parking lot and asked about the bicycle parking.
   • Daniel Gonzales stated his concern for vehicle parking in relation to the music building and law building.
   • Dave Anderson asked for an update on getting a UVX stop on 900 East.
   • There was a lot of discussion on parking lot trees, soils, and shade coverage. There was some concern of the trees
       getting the necessary air and water to grow to anticipated heights. It was acknowledged that the proposed plantings
       for the trees was somewhat of an experiment so the Commission wanted to have assurance that the lot would get
       to 50% shade coverage. They suggested adding three additional trees in the south rows to make sure code
       standards are met.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS


                                                       Page 2 of 2
