                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                   September 23, 2020


 *ITEM 8       The Development Services Dept requests Ordinance Text Amendments to the Low Density Residential (LDR)
               zone and the Very Low Density Residential (VLDR) zone to reduce the minimum lot size for a single-family
               dwelling from 5,000 sf to 4,000 sf. It is also proposes to reduce the maximum housing density from 15 to 12
               units per acre and to reduce the number of townhomes in one building from eight to six in the LDR zone.
               Citywide Impact. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20200274



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 23, 2020:


                                POSITIVE RECOMMENDATION
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Ally Jones
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales, Deborah Jensen,
Brian Henrie, Dave Anderson
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDED TEXT AMENDMENT
 The text of the proposed text amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Staff gave an overview of the proposed amendments, reasons for the changes, and differences between the
 zones.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Staff answered questions regarding massing, garage locations, design standards, and differences between the
       VLDR and LDR zones.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Deborah Jensen stated her support for a reduced lot size in the zones and had questions regarding the number of
       townhomes massed together. She also stated that a front-loaded garage is a design that should be avoided.
   • Brian Henrie asked if the code has size standards for garages and also stated his preference for rear or side-loaded
       garages on townhomes.
   • The Commission discussed the differences between the LDR and VLDR zones and felt comfortable with the
       changes.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
EXHIBIT A
