                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      June 22, 2022


ITEM #2         Natalie Nichols requests Project Plan approval of a two-phase development plan for a new credit union
branch in the General Commercial (CG) zone, located at 1476 N Freedom Blvd. Carterville Neighborhood. Aaron
Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@gmail.com PLPPA20210421




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of June
22, 2022:


                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.


Motion By: Brian Henrie
Second By: Melissa Kendall
Votes in Favor of Motion: Brian Henrie, Melissa Kendall, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Robert Knudsen,
Dave Anderson, Miles Miller
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
    • Staff addressed questions from the Planning Commission regarding the General Plan designation, street trees, and
        signage.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.




                                                        Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Rick Magnus represented the applicant and gave a brief overview of the proposal and answered questions from
       the Planning Commission regarding site access issues during construction.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Lisa Jensen asked if the site will still allow vehicle flow and garbage pickup during the phased construction. She
       also asked about signs for the building and if there will be a pre-construction meeting.
   • Brian Henrie asked staff if the Mixed Use General Plan designation is an issue.
   • Dave Anderson asked about street trees for the development.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
