                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 14, 2020


*Item 6     Mike and Lauri Clark request an Ordinance Text amendment to Section 14.50(20).150 to increase the
            permissible lot coverage from 30% to 35%. Maeser Neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801) 854-6414
            dwright@provo.org PLOTA20200318




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 14, 2020:


                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to October 28, 2020 and asked the
 applicant to provide elevations and site plan and to consider going to 40% lot coverage.

 Conditions of Approval:

Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Dave Anderson, Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales,
Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.


TEXT AMENDMENT
Current language
14.50(20).150 – Permissible Lot Coverage.
In the Del Coronado PRO zone all buildings and structures shall not cover an area of more than thirty (30) percent of
the lot or parcel of land upon which they are placed.

Proposed language
14.50(20).150 – Permissible Lot Coverage.
In the Del Coronado PRO zone all multi-family buildings and structures shall not cover an area of more than thirty (30)
percent of the lot or parcel of land upon which they are placed. All single-family buildings and structures shall not cover
an area of more than thirty five (35) percent of the lot or parcel of land upon which they are placed.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations.



                                                        Page 1 of 3
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• No comments were made.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The 35% lot coverage would make it so that a reasonable size home could be built. It will not increase the width,
   only the length of the home.
• Having 40% lot coverage would help, but it will work with 35%.
• The apartments in the zone are owned by someone other than the applicant. The applicant owns the two single
   family lots.
• The smaller lot is 3,511 square feet.
• The setbacks will still be respected; the home will just be allowed to occupy more of the building envelope if the lot
   coverage in increased.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Other single-family zones have 40% lot coverage requirements. Instead of only going from 30% to 35%, some
   Commissioners felt like 40% lot coverage made sense and asked the applicant to explore that as an option.
• The apartments in the Del Coronado PRO zone are about 40 years old. The PRO zone was created in 2008.
• This application has city-wide impact because it is a text amendment request and not a project plan.




               Planning Commission Chair




            Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff
    Report to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the
    decision of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted
    in this Report of Action.


                                                      Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a
   public hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following
   a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by
   submitting an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and
   Neighborhood Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the
   Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

               BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                    Page 3 of 3
