                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  November 08, 2023


*ITEM #2         Development Services proposes the River and Lakeshore Plan be adopted. Citywide Application.
                 Jantsen Teuscher (801)852-6405 jteuscher@provo.org PLGPA20230273



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 08, 2023:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Jonathan Hill
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen, Dan Gonzales, Jonathan Hill, Barbara DeSoto, and Andrew
South.
Dan Gonzales was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
   • Staff verbalized the changes to the document between publication of the staff report and the hearing. The changes
       primarily consisted of cosmetic and grammar changes and any feedback received from any Planning Commissioner
       prior to the hearing.
   • Staff vocalized the purpose of this document is to fulfil not only a request from the City Council but it supports
       the General Plan and is desired by Provo citizens.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and recommends approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• There was no neighborhood meeting.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• There was no public or neighborhood comment.


                                                        Page 1 of 3
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• Staff said that the term ‘development’ would be addressed either through additional clarification in the document or
   in a word glossary appendix.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Lisa Jensen had comments on the term ‘development’ on some of the maps, it was discussed among members of
   importance of clarifying the term.
• Andrew South had questions on Provo’s ownership of any lakeshore property.
• Lisa Jensen commented that the substance is something she is excited about.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours
   are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                                      Exhibit A
Due to the size and length of the document, a link will be provided to the final draft of the River and Lakeshore Plan.
https://www.provo.org/home/showpublisheddocument/23416/638344432089566777




                                                       Page 3 of 3
