                                  Provo City Planning Commission
                                       Report of Action
                                                  June 10, 2020

Item 4*       The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests an ordinance text amendment to Section
              14.37.050 to add bike parking ratios to residential development that seeks a car parking reduction. Citywide
              application. Austin Taylor 801-852-6423 ataylor@provo.org PLOTA20200142




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of June
10, 2020


                                         Recommend Approval
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application

Motion by: Lisa Jensen
Second by: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Andrew Howard, Deborah
Jensen
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations.

Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission:
• Bike parking ratios were originally approved by Provo City Council in September 2019. This included a base
   standard and a higher stretch standard that allowed new development to qualify for reductions in minimum car
   parking requirements.
• During the passing of this ordinance text amendment, stretch standard ratios for residential development was
   removed by the City Council because reductions in minimum car parking requirements was not allowed for
   residential development.
• Provo City Council passed an ordinance text amendment in November 2019 that allowed for reductions in
   minimum car parking requirements.
• Now that minimum off-street parking requirements reductions are permitted for residential use, this ordinance text
   amendment seeks to replace the ratios that were removed in September 2019.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
None
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Dave Anderson asked if developers get an automatic reduction in required car parking if they meet this higher standard
of bike parking. No, the choice is still up to the Planning Commission. Lisa Jensen asked what the bike parking looks
like. Provo City Code Section 14.37.105 has the description of how short-term and long-term bike parking should be
designed.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services




See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item.
    Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).
             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
