                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                       May 8, 2024


 *Item 2       Development Services requests a Zone Map Amendment from the OSPR (Open Space, Preservation, and
               Recreation) Zone to the SC2 (Community Shopping Center) Zone for five (5) acres of land to attract
               businesses south of the Regional Sports Park, located approximately at 2662 West Lakeview Pkwy.
               Provo Bay Neighborhood. Mary Barnes (801) 852-6408 mabarnes@provo.org PLRZ20240059

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of May 8,
2024:
                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Jeff Whitlock
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen, Jeff Whitlock, Jonathan Hill, Barbara DeSoto, Daniel Gonzales,
and Melissa Kendall.
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.
Votes against the Motion: None

    •   Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
        changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and
        determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
   • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
   • This application affects the Provo Bay Neighborhood in District 3. This item will be discussed in the upcoming
     May 15th District 3 neighborhood meeting, and the topic will be presented by city staff.

APPLICANT PRESENTATION
The applicant is Provo City. Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following:
    • The reason behind the requested re-zone is the need for support services in the area. Also, this property will be
        leased to a developer to help generate some revenue for the city, and to assist with the upkeep of the park.
    • The configuration of the Regional Sports Park, and how it has changed over time.
    •   Permitted uses in the SC-2 zone.
    •   Potential traffic impacts on the neighborhoods, and concerns with parking for the park.
            o Doug Robins, Parks and Rec Director, addressed the concerns regarding parking for the Regional Sports
                Park. Currently an average of 83 stalls are provided per sports field. Nothing was designed in the subject
                area besides that overflow parking in the previous iteration, because it is a strange shape. Wayfinding signs
                to help direct people to Lakeview Parkway for access to and from the park will be installed. This will
                hopefully help to reduce traffic impacts in the adjacent neighborhood.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
   • The neighborhood Chair was not present and did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during the
public hearing included the following:
   • Jeff Stubbs, Provo Resident. Concerned about how the overflow parking has been eliminated on the Regional
        Sports Park plan. The park has not opened yet, therefore the amount of overflow parking needed cannot be known.
        If more parking is needed, where will it go?

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
After staff presentation:
    • Commissioner Knudsen expressed concerns about traffic from the re-zone area going through the neighborhoods
         on the northeast side of the park. Patrons of the commercial support services may want to cut through the Southwest
         neighborhoods to get back home to their neighborhoods.
              o Commissioner Jensen stated that she would prefer to get onto Lakeview Parkway and use the more
                  prominent collector roads to get back to her home quickly. Residents in the immediate surrounding
                  neighborhoods will probably cut through Epic Ln and 600 S, but other residents are most likely going to
                  take the quicker routes home.
              o Commissioner Hill agreed that there will be a traffic increase on 600 S, but it will be marginal. It will
                  probably be traffic from the park, and not as much from the commercial piece.
    • Commissioner Gonzales discussed whether SC-2 is intense enough for the desired uses, specifically regarding
         building height. Also, a car wash would not be a welcomed use.
              o Commissioner Jensen agreed that making sure the final use is something classy is important.
    • Commissioner Jensen wanted clarification on why this section of property is not called out as commercial on the
         general plan map. Proposals for development could filter in for this area due to the neighborhood plan
         designations, and commercial could fill in to the direct west of the park.
              o Commissioner Hill commented that the purpose of the Airport Industrial/Commercial areas on the
                  neighborhood plan was to provide commercial areas to support the airport.
After public comment:
    • Commissioner Jensen stated that most City Parks were fairly recently rezoned to the OSPR zone. With this rezone,
         an inadvertent message may be sent to developers that Provo City will rezone their parks for commercial projects.
         Concerned that justifying this re-zone by stating “it will support the airport and Regional Sports Park” is something
         that can be said for the entire area. Do not want all agricultural land or open space to be swallowed up into this.
         However, this does meet the goals of the General Plan and it’s a great location. The city will be the landlord, which
         is great as well. Want to make sure people think of the rezone repercussions.
              o Commissioner Gonzales replied, saying that this situation is different because there isn’t a great use for
                  this property if it stays open space. Sports fields can’t fit into the triangle, and overflow parking is not
                  needed. Because of the location and the surrounding major uses, this is most likely the best use for the
                  subject area.
                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 West Center Street Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
 Exhibit A




SC2
