                                     Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                   January 25, 2023


Item 4         Miller General Contractors requests Project Plan Approval for a new 108 unit apartment building in the
               DT1 (General Downtown) zone, located at 434 South 100 West. Downtown Neighborhood. Dustin
               Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.orgPLPPA20220106


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
January 25, 2023:



                              APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS

On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

Conditions of Approval:
  1. Remaining CRC comments are addressed for final approval.
  2. Stucco not to exceed 20% per façade.
  3. Lots are combined into one parcel of land under single ownership.
  4. Rezone (PLRZ20220220) is approved.

Motion By: Daniel Gonzales
Second By: Jeff Whitlock
Votes in Favor of Motion: Daniel Gonzales, Jeff Whitlock, Lisa Jensen, Andrew South, Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen.
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
Rezone application PLRZ20220220, Item 3 on the Planning Commission January 25, 2023 agenda.


APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*108 Total Units
*Type of occupancy approved: Family
*Standard Land Use Code 1150


APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*122 Total parking stalls required
*122 Total parking stalls provided. They have 13 additional tandem stalls not counted in the 122 required parking stalls.
*1.125 Required parking stalls per unit (25% DT1 reduction from 1.5)



                                                       Page 1 of 3
STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• Nobody from the public commented on this item.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The units front the street to hide the parking behind and under the building. This will improve the street appeal.
• The have provided a nice feature on the corner to improve the building aesthetic.
• This will look as great with the project that has been developed across the street.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• This site has a great connection to the downtown area.
• Because most of the property in the development is already zoned to allow the proposed development, this makes
   sense and that is also why they went straight to project plan instead of a concept plan with the rezone.
• Having the parking behind the building and bringing the units out to the street face is nice to see. This will be family
   housing and not have baching singles. The parking would not work for baching singles.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.


                                                        Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 West Center St., Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
