                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                     November 9, 2022


ITEM #2         Bob Jones requests a variance through the Planning Commission to impact slopes exceeding 30 percent
                (Section 15.07.010) for a proposed residential subdivision, located at approximately 379 E 4900 N in the
                R1.10 zone. North Timpview Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org
                PLPSUB20210136


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 28, 2022:


                                                       DENIED

On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission voted to deny the above application.
Reasons for Denial: 1. That the staff has proposed a water line alternative that does not impact 30% slopes; 2. That the
applicant stated he proposed another water line alternative that does not impact 30% slopes; 3. That the variance request
is contrary to the public interest; and 4. That with other alternatives available, the original variance proposal is an economic
hardship and a self-imposed hardship.


Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Raleen Wahlin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Raleen Wahlin, Jeff Whitlock, Andrew South, Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.


CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Public Works Department recognized that the applicant had submitted documentation for Preliminary
   Subdivision approval. Further engineering and documentation would be needed to Final Subdivision approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was not required nor held on the request for a variance, however, staff received many letters
   and email from the public in opposition to approval of the variance.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• Six members of the public spoke to the Planning Commission. Concerns raised included the following:
   • Sharon Memmott voiced opposition to the variance because an alternative had been identified that did not require
      a variance. Mrs. Memmott also read a letter from Morgan Sparenborg which is attached to this Report of Action.

                                                         Page 1 of 2
    •   Angela Mourik voiced opposition to the variance and she read a letter from Tanei Henry, which is also attached
        to this ROA.
    • Boyd Loveless was supportive of the applicant’s right to develop his property but did not agree that the 30%
        slopes should be impacted.
    • Debbie Schwarting, who lives in The Preserve on Canyon Road stated how important the debris basin is the to
        the safety of The Preserve.
•   In addition to these comments, the city received many letters from citizens that were forwarded to the Planning
    Commission. Those letters are attached to this report of action.

APPLICANT COMMENTS
The applicant stated that the city staff is dishonest and that the staff water line alternative is a stall tactic. He claimed that
the staff’s alignment was proposed by the applicant months ago and it was rejected by staff. The applicant believed that
the staff’s proposal was not real because Utah County had not given permission for the water line to be on property located
in unincorporated Utah County. The applicant stated that the staff’s water line alternative would cost ten times more than
the applicant’s variance proposal. The applicant acknowledged that he submitted to the city an alternative that would not
impact 30% slopes. The applicant stated that the debris basin that was constructed for The Preserve was illegal because
approval had not been obtained from State Dam Safety.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission asked questions regarding the staff proposal verses the variance proposal.
   • That if the applicant’s opposition to the staff’s proposal is that it would cost more than the variance alignment,
       then the applicant’s hardship is economic, which cannot be considered as a hardship.
   • That two alternatives were discussed that would not impact 30% slopes; one by the staff and one by the applicant.
       If other alternatives exist than impacting 30% slopes is not in the public interest.




                 Planning Commission Chair



              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS

                                                          Page 2 of 2
From: Julie Hollingworth
Sent: Wednesday, November 2, 2022 8:44 AM
To: DS Public Hearings
Subject: Item for next Planning Commission meeting

November 2, 2022

Dear Planning Commission, City Council, and Mayor Kaufusi,

Two years ago, Provo City council passed the Critical Hillside Overlay Zone. We pushed for this as residents to
ensure that our area remains safe. This is a critical law now and it should remain firmly in effect and not allow for
exceptions because of the geological problems in those areas that would put structures built on and structures
already below these areas at risk!

On September 28th the following item is coming up before the Planning Commission:

Item 4 Bob Jones requests a variance through the Planning Commission (see Subsection
15.07.010, Provo City Code? To impact slopes exceeding 30-percent for a proposed
residential development, located at approximately 379 E 4900 N in the R1.10 zone.
North Timpview Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org
PLPSUB20210136

Bob Jones has violated a lot of the ordinances already without any punishment. We beg you to not allow him
further exceptions and to start heavy fines and return of vegetation destroyed as punishment for violation in the
future. We want responsible builders who will follow laws and plan with the city officials and the community for
the good of us all. We are not opposed to new construction, only the violation of laws, ignoring of infrastructure
needs, ignoring desires of the community, and the impact it all has on our environment.

Thank you,
Julie and Brian Hollingworth
523 E 4300 N
November 1, 2022



Dear Friends & Neighbors,


Thank you for your interest and participation regarding the North Timpview Area Neighborhood
and surrounds.

To follow up, the following Planning Commission Meeting agenda item (Wed. November 9th)
will potentially aﬀect our neighborhood. It is good to engage and make your voice heard.

It is our understanding that at the end of the last planning commission meeting, the
commission asked the city to try and secure a solution for water access for the developer that
would not damage or undermine the sensitive/critical hillside. This request was followed
through with and a potential solution found.

Therefore, we find that, again, a variance request should not be granted. We ask that the city
preserve and protect the sensitive hillside and CHOZ ordinance, as this helps to secure safety
for residents now and for precedent in the future.

Please write or call your city representatives and let them know you want them to honor the
sensitive hillside ordinance and the CHOZ and not make exceptions to this rule.

You may refer to the previous letter in regards to the last planning commission meeting.

Again, neighborhood voice and participation is important and is being heard.

Thank you for your engagement! We all benefit.

Peter & Angela Mourik

council@provo.org

michelle@provo.org

dspublichearings@provo.org


Item 2       Bob Jones requests a variance through the Planning
             Commission (see Subsection 15.07.010, Provo City Code) to
             impact slopes exceeding 30-percent for a proposed
             residential development, located at approximately 379 E
             4900 N in the R1.10 zone. North Timpview Neighborhood.
             Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org
             PLPSUB20210136
September 20, 2022

Dear Planning Commission, City Council, and Mayor Kaufusi,

About two years ago Provo City council passed the CHOZ (Critical Hillside Overlay Zone).
The foothills continue to be a geologically sensitive area. Nothing has changed.
This zoning is to prevent ill-placed development and potential geologic hazards and unforeseen
repercussions that often result form development in geologically sensitive areas.

We call to your attention the following request coming before the planning commission
Wednesday, September 28th:

Item 4 Bob Jones requests a variance through the Planning Commission (see Subsection
       15.07.010, Provo City Code? To impact slopes exceeding 30-percent for a proposed
       residential development, located at approximately 379 E 4900 N in the R1.10 zone.
       North Timpview Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org
       PLPSUB20210136


We think as Provo residents and oﬃcials we should be VERY concerned with this variance
request.

1.    The CHOZ and hillside ordinances were established in part to prevent certain things from
     NOT occurring. The very first test of the validity of the CHOZ should not be an ‘exception’
     to the rule.

2. Mr. Jones has already violated the CHOZ by digging a preliminary ‘road’ from East Lawn
   Cemetery to his property last year. The city had to order a ‘cease and desist’ ruling at least
   twice for unauthorized grading. No reparations were done on the violated hillside.

3. If this request would be approved, consequences could be potential landslides, rewarding
   violations, and economic disaster as the bottom line for profit doesn’t add up after such
   risky and expensive infrastructure.

We ask the city to honor the CHOZ.

We also ask that the planning commission physically go to the site in question below East
Lawn Cemetery and see for themselves the property, the hillside, and study the history of the
proposals, the violations, and the CHOZ and how it is intended to be upheld going forward.
Their decision will set an important precedent for the future use of the CHOZ.

We personally ask to NOT allow this variance request.

With kind regards,

Peter & Angela Mourik
5163 N Canyon Road
2 November 2022
Provo City Planning Commission
dspublichearings@provo.org
Attention: jblarsen@provo.org – (Commission Meeting November 9th 2022)
Brandon Larsen (801) 852- 6408
To Whom it May Concern:
My name is H. Carl Mackay, my wife and I have lived at 4885 North Canyon Road,
Provo for over 40 years. I am writing today to again address the proposed variance for
Mr. Bob Jones to develop residential homes on slopes exceeding 30-percent along the
foothills approximately 379 East 4900 North.
We have just experienced Halloween when people dress up to be something they are not.
Unfortunately, I believe Mr. Jones often appears before City leaders as a person different
from what he really is, for example:
   •   Mr. Jones has circumvented the rules and standards of the Provo City Zoning and
       Planning in the past
   •   Mr. Jones unauthorized excavation of the hills below the cemetery required police
       action and an order to cease and desist, nor has he restored the flood basin he
       destroyed
   •   The hillside he cut into without permits, below the cemetery, has a sandy
       component in the soil structure
   •   His actions have already caused irreparable damage and potential for devasting
       flooding or mudslides
   •   He seems to feel he can do anything he desires and then seek forgiveness from the
       city without consequences
   •   There has not been a resolution of the current water pressure issues in the Preserve
       Subdivision, or water storage requirements, which will be exacerbated by this
       development.
   •   The future DANGERS FROM CUTTING AWAY THE HILLSIDE AT GREATER
       THAN 30 PERCENT are not a question of if but when flooding and mudslides will
       impact the entire neighborhood down to Canyon Road and beyond
As a result, my wife and I strongly OPPOSE any variance for development by
Mr. Jones in this area of our city. We ask that the city preserve and protect the sensitive
hillside and CHOZ ordinance, as this helps to secure safety for residents now and for
precedent in the future. We request that you honor the sensitive hillside ordinance and
the CHOZ and not make exceptions to this rule. While we recognize that the City desires
appropriate growth for economic purposes, it must do so in an orderly manner consistent
with approved engineering and not repeat the problems impacting homes moving on
slopes already developed in parts of the City.
We sincerely request that the Planning Commission and City Council DENY AND
REJECT ANY FURTHER DEVELOPMENT OF THIS AREA BY MR. JONES.
Thank you
H. Carl and Carolyn Mackay
801 224-4885
Hillside Variant Request Hearing
November 9, 2022

This letter is concerning unpermitted and proposed work in the area east of The
Preserve in an environmentally compromised hill side location. At the Provo City
Planning hearing on September 28th the Developer was ordered to revisit and
check all other possible alternates in getting water to the sight. The Developer
was asked to consult with the neighbors in the area about the proposed plans.
The City questioned whether an Environmental Impact, and a Geologic Hazard
Study needed to be done. Has any of this been done? What were the outcomes?
If none of this has occurred why are we now revisiting this topic?

A reminder of our concerns:

   1. Without permits, nor any approval that we are aware of, the Developer cut
      the toe out of the cemetery hill along the Smith Ditch, causing it to become
      an unstable slope and in doing so the Developer destroyed the service road
      around that toe including the foundations for some of the power line poles.
      It’s also our understanding that the Developer has been ordered to restore
      this area, but that still hasn’t occurred. All of this happened before, after,
      and during the issuance of a number of stop work orders.
   2. In approximately the same time frame the Developer proceeded to do work
      not permitted nor approved on the debris/catch basin to the east of The
      Preserve. The Developer breached the west and south abutments
      compromising the function of the debris/catch basin, and has been ordered
      to restore it; the west abutment, but not the south, was restored. In
      addition to that numerous truckloads of sand and gravel have been
      dumped blocking the drainage covert and further compromising the
      function of the basin. Though ordered, this situation still has not been
      rectified.
   3. Even while all of this was going on the Developer start excavation in the
      gully that they are now requesting a Hill Side Slope Variance. This gully has
      been used as a dumping sight for the Cemetery in which all kinds of objects
      have been dumped including organic debris, miscellaneous sand and gravel,
      and loose unconsolidated fill material causing an unstable situation for any
      project unless it’s restored to the natural slope with all fill materials
      removed.
  4. This area is called the Bonneville shore line and is full of unstable sand and
     gravel beach deposits. What considerations are you “The City of Provo”
     making to address these issues? Along with this we would like to know
     what environmental impact and fault mapping studies have been done in
     this area? I’m not aware of any Western States that do not require
     Geological Hazard or Environmental Impact Studies to be done before the
     City would approve a project that could have long term ramifications and
     liabilities. Have any of these plans been submitted to the State for review?
     The question arises that if this Hill Side Slope Variance is approved and we
     have an incident what plan is in place to protect the area from water and
     damages?
  5. Addressing the elephant in the room – reviewing the sight plans it’s been
     noted that there is a 12” water line truncated at the north end of the
     Cemetery’s. Isn’t a 12” pipe oversized for a 15 home project?
  6. This is a large problematic project—who is creating the design for this
     hillside area, who is going to develop it, and who will be held accountable
     for caring this out correctly? I have not seen anything from the Developer
     or the City that would give the surrounding neighbors any confidence in this
     project. Bottom line—Who would bare the responsibility when, not if, there
     is a problem?

                           NO TO THE SLOPE VARIENT

Warmest Regards,
Ric and Debra Schwarting
339E 4900 N
Provo, UT 84604
                                        Greg R. and Jo Rita Nielsen
                                              4883 N 350 E
                                               Provo, Utah
                                            November 7, 2022

To the Provo City Mayor, City Council, and Planning Commission and Staff:

Re: Public Hearing November 9, 2022: Request for a variance through the Planning Commission to
    impact slopes exceeding 30-percent for a proposed residential development, located at
    approximately 379 E 4900 N in the R1.10 zone. North Timpview Neighborhood, PLPSUB20210136.

We live at 4883 N 350 E, directly west of the proposed development to which this variance request
relates and urge the Provo Planning Commission to deny the variance request for the following reasons:

1.    At the September 28, 2022 hearing before the Planning Commission, a decision on Developer’s
     application for a variance was put on hold pending further studies to determine the geological
     stability of the area (see Provo City Code Sections 15.05.020 and 15.05.50), the potential for storm
     water run off flooding and proposed mitigation (see Provo City Code Section 15.05.030), and
     alternative water sources. Developer was also to meet with the affected land owners and home
     owners to further explain the proposed development and discuss possible solutions. To our
     knowledge, none of these actions has occurred, so this rehearing is premature and should, at a
     minimum, be further postponed until all facts are determined and made available to the public.

2. Developer is requesting a variance to the requirements of Provo City Code Section 15.05.160,
   prohibiting development on undisturbed hillside areas having a slope greater than 30%. Developer
   does not meet the standards under Utah Code 10-9a-702 relating to variances (the “Utah Variance
   Code”), and the request is also inconsistent with the purposes and objectives of the Critical Hillside
   Overlay Zone, Provo City Code Chapter 14.33A (the “CHOZ”) and the requirements of the Sensitive
   Lands Ordinance, Provo City Code Chapter 15.05 (the “SLO”). In determining if Developer qualifies
   for a variance, the Planning Commission should be aware of the following.

             a. Crap to Cash LLC is the current owner of the property proposed for development (the
                “Property”), having acquired the Property from From the Rear LLC by warranty deed,
                recorded on April 14, 2021, Entry No. 70192-2021.
             b. The CHOZ was originally adopted and approved by the Mayor and city Counsel on June
                30, 2020, several months before Developer acquired the Property.
             c. The SLO has been in effect for several years prior to Developer’s acquisition of the
                Property.
             d. Developer acquired the Property with full knowledge of the requirements of both the
                SLO and CHOZ, and consequently cannot now argue that he is being denied a substantial
                property right possess by other property in the same zone or that there are special
                circumstances attached to the Property that do not generally apply to other properties
                in the same zone (see Sections (2)(a)(ii) and(a)(iii) of the Utah Variance Code).
             e. Since Developer acquired the Property post CHOZ and SLO, the variance is not
                permitted under Utah Variance Code Section 2(b)(ii), which prohibits granting of a
                variance where the hardship is “self-imposed”, since Developer was fully aware of the
                CHOZ and SLO requirements before making a decision to purchase the Property, yet
                proceeded with the purchase.
    3. Flooding of down slope areas is a major concern. At the September 28th hearing, Developer
       stated that flooding would be mitigated by flood control retention structures to be constructed
       up slope from the Property. However, to our knowledge, Developer does not own or control
       the property where the flood control structures would be constructed and thus cannot control
       when or if such structures will be constructed or whether they will adequately serve the
       Property and surrounding down slope areas. Until such flood control measures are in place, no
       development should be considered or allowed on land that is down slope, on gullies, such as
       that for which the variance is requested, that would channel flood water into existing
       developments such as the Preserve or other properties in the Canyon Road corridor, particularly
       since developer proposed to remove the current retention basin walls on the Property.

    4. The undeveloped hillside areas protected by the CHOZ represent a valuable and unique amenity
       for the citizens of the North Timpview Neighborhood, the citizens of Provo City, and the many
       visitors to our area. These hillside areas are a natural and important gateway to Provo Canyon
       and should be preserved, as is intended by the CHOZ. This application for a variance represents
       the first significant challenge to the CHOZ, is not warranted by the facts and circumstances
       presented, and would establish a dangerous precedent for future development requests.

For the foregoing reasons, we respectfully request that the request for variance be denied.
To Whom It May Concern:

I am a Provo resident, and am writing with regards to the proposed amendments to the zone map in order to
change the boundaries of the residential conservation zone, as was scheduled to be addressed during
tonight's public hearing meeting. Though I was unable to attend tonight, I do want to take a moment to speak
out against the proposed changes. Our foothills are a valuable component of the ecosystem and our community,
and it is of the utmost importance that we hold the boundary necessary to protect them.

As a Provo citizen who herself lives within walking distance to the foothills and spends a significant time in them,
I know firsthand what a treasure this natural resource is. Please prioritize the care of our fragile foothills and do
not approve zoning changes that would encroach upon the protected space.

Thank you,

Dania Ellingson
Hello all,

I am quickly sending this your way as it looks like my husband and I will be stuck in the operating room
completing a few more surgeries this evening and will miss tonight’s meeting. I’m sorry it’s last minute before
hand, but I hope what I share will be considered.

I understand this area has been zoned for residential development and Bob jones would love to develop and get
return from his investment. I complete can understand of course while he would want to do this, and I think yes
some of the area on the more level areas right near where current homes are, should be permitted to be
developed if he can indeed get water safely to these properties. We’ve watched this gentleman this past year
bring in many many truck loads of sand to dump in the back area of the property, we also have watched him
continue to work with out a permit, digging and unearthing the hillside of east lawn cemetery. It is a little
worrysome about how secure building on sand will be. I’m also a little nervous and sad about the idea of seeing
the hillsides completely develop, there’s a family of owls that lives in the trees just beyond our neighborhood
and it will be sad to see that tree go and their home. Its also been sad to see the trails back there get dug up and
to see what used to be areas for walker and bikers now not accessable. It’s great to see Provo, develop, develop,
develop, but why don’t we leave these very very difficult and somewhat dangerous to develop areas to be
something that could be used as recreation space. We keep expanding, more housing, more people, and keep
taking away from where people can go and recreate locally.
It would be nice if some how the steeper slope/canyon areas could be purchased and turned into community
recreation opportunitiy. Thank you for your time, I appreciate it.

Respectfully,

Morgan Sparenborg
Hello, Decision makers-

Thank you for your service to our community. I recognize that you each take time from your life to review this
information and make tough decisions.

I attended the Provo City Planning hearing on September 28th where the Developer was instructed to revisit and
check on alternative water routes to the building site. Has that happened? What was found?

Also, I am curious about the environmental impact, and geologic hazard in the case of this variance being
requested.

Further, a statement of concern. I am a future resident of The Preserve on Canyon Road and a current citizen of
the Maeser Neighborhood, where I have lived for the past 10.5 years. At the Provo City Planning hearing on
September 28, my future neighbors made their statements and some were about the water basin that had
previously been built at the city's behest by former owner, David Brotherson ahead of the building of The
Preserve phase 1. Then the Developer's Attorney stood and explained that the former owner (David Brotherson)
had built the water basin on someone else's property. This timeline that the attorney stated was inaccurate and
it matters as to whether the developer was informed of the risks at the time of purchase. All signs point to this
information was easily available.

When I bought my lot in August 2020, there were hopes of a phase 2 from the developer at the time. David
Brotherson (the developer at the time) mentioned to us then that there were some complications and they
were unsure about whether a phase two would be permitted and built out. David Brotherson was the owner
then.

As the next owner bought the land, then the water basin was on a different owners' property. So, the attorney's
statement that the former owner had built the water basin on another's property should be questioned as that
water basin does matter to those of us in The Preserve Phase 1.

There are other alternatives to getting water to the site requesting the variance. If they are no longer available
to the Developer, why is that? I ask because this seems to be something the Developer has control over without
a variance being granted. If that is no longer an option, perhaps that is part of the risk the Developer knowingly
took.

Thanks for hearing me out,

Tanei Henry
