                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  September 27, 2023

 Item 2   Jake Black requests Project Plan approval for a new industrial warehouse in the PIC (Planned Industrial
          Commercial) Zone located at 2725 S Mountain Vista Pkwy. Spring Creek Neighborhood. Nancy Robison
          nrobison@provo.org PLPPA20230148

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 27, 2023
                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 9-0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
     1. Nine (9) total parking stalls required by approved parking reduction.
     2. That all remaining CRC comments be addressed prior to building permit being issued.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Barbara DeSoto, Andrew South, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Raleen
Wahlin, Jonathon Hill, Lisa Jensen, Melissa Kendall
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*9 Total parking stalls required (with Parking Reduction)
*9 Total parking stalls provided

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on July13, 2023.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following: A question on whether or not this is a clean operation.


                                                        Page 1 of 2
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following: The applicant
noted that his development would be an improvement to the area. That all of his operational activities and storage will
be within the building. That the placement of the building was necessary to accommodate vehicles driving directly through
the building to drop off and pick up their materials.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following: If the reduction in parking would affect future
businesses if the land were to be sold.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
   office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
