                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    February 28, 2024

 ITEM 2     Jonathan Dazley requests Project Plan approval for a complete replacement of an existing building and
            construction of the surrounding site in the PF (Public Facilities) Zone, located at 2200 N Temple Hill Drive.
            University Neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLPPA20230121

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 28, 2024:
                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
     1. Council approves the street vacation of Temple Hill Dr.
     2. Parcels are combined into one parcel of land.
     3. Remaining CRC approval is given.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Jonathan Hill
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Jonathan Hill, Robert Knudsen, Barbara DeSoto, Lisa Jensen, Andrew South,
Jeff Whitlock
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*Standard Land Use Code 6910 – Religious Uses.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*1,144 Total parking stalls required
*1,146 Total parking stalls provided
*40 short term bicycle parking stalls
*20 long term bicycle parking lockers

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 06/15/2023.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received after the Staff Report or public comment during the public
                                                        Page 1 of 2
hearing included the following:
• A neighbor to the project asked about the access points and asked if there would be cross walks for people to safely
    cross. He mentioned that he sees people park on the residential side of the street because it is closer to the entrance
    than the parking lot.
• Signals would be helpful for people to be safer.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The applicant discussed the parking needs and described that many of the visitors walk or bike to the temple.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Public Works staff answered questions about the crosswalks and signals at intersections. There will be ongoing traffic
   studies to ensure that safety concerns are addressed properly.
• The width of the streets is very wide around this property. By adding on-street parking, this will help to calm traffic
   speeds and reduce the distance that pedestrians must travel across vehicular traffic.
• Vacating the street will be helpful for this area as it is almost exclusively used to access the temple.
• The parking lot at the adjacent church is very heavily utilized, but the added street parking will be helpful.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 West
   Center St., Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
   office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
