                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      March 24, 2021


 Item 8*       Jeremy Draper requests annexation of approximately 9.5 acres of property at the intersections of
               Colorado Avenue, Bullock Lane, and 1860 South to allow for construction of a storage facility. East Bay
               Neighborhood. Robert Mills (801) 852-6407. rmills@provo.org PLANEX20210019



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
24, 2021:


                                     RECOMMEND APPROVAL
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended the Municipal Council approve the above noted application
 and designate the zoning for the property as M-1 Light Manufacturing.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Dave Anderson, Robert Knudsen, Brian Henrie, and Daniel
Gonzales
Votes Against the Motion:
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


RELATED ACTIONS
 The Applicant has also submitted a project plan application for the storage facility.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff explained the area of the proposed annexation and why it is consistent with the intended uses.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • No neighbors or other interested parties addressed the Planning Commission.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
 • No additional comments


                                                         Page 1 of 2
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Commission members commented on the number of storage facilities in the area, but all agreed that it is the best use
   for this piece of property.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
    an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
    Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
    Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
