                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                       June 10, 2020


 Item 1 *        Kris Krohn requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to the Community Shopping Center (SC2) zone
                 to add SLU #7230 Public Assembly, Miscellaneous Purposes to the Permitted Uses of the zone.
                 Citywide application. Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLOTA20200137



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of June
10, 2020:


                          RECOMMENDATION FOR APPROVAL
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Andrew Howard
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Robert Knudsen, Deborah Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Dave
Anderson
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.



 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following:
 •    There are more intense uses allowed in the SC2 zone as conditional uses.
 •    The proposed use would be compatible with the zone.
 •    The SC2 is generally located next to major collector and arterial streets where a use like this would be conducive.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • Final approval has been received from CRC.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• No neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• No neighbors or other interested parties were present.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The applicant described the nature of the business and expressed that in the future they would like to have dances.
   Staff informed him that type of use falls under a different land use code that would require a conditional use permit.


PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• The proposed use is consistent with the other existing uses in the zone and would not have a greater impact than other
   uses.
• Parking at the applicant’s site was discussed. This application would affect all property zoned SC2.
• The use would be a good fit at the location that the applicant has selected.
• The proposed SLU could be added to the conditional use list instead of the permitted use list.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West
    100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office
    hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
