                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   September 09, 2020


 ITEM #4       Dudley and Associates requests Concept Plan approval for a 27-lot, single-family subdivision in a proposed
               R1.10 zone, located at approximately 430 E 3950 N. North Timpview Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801)
               852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20200223




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 09, 2020:


                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Deborah Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Brian Henrie,
Dave Anderson, Robert Knudsen
Robert Knudsen was present as Chair.

 •    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
      Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission gave a positive recommendation on the related zone change application (Item #3 –
 PLRZ20200217).

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Staff reviewed the zone change request and concept plan, indicating they still need to go through a subdivision
 approval.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • David Day, from Provo Engineering, responded to questions regarding street connections, block lengths, driveways
    on collectors, and street cross-sections.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing and expressed support for
   R1.10 lots.
• Neighbors or other interested parties addressed the Planning Commission. No opposition was expressed for the
   concept plan.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Bonnie Morrow stated that the layout works for the area, appreciates the cul-de-sac for traffic calming, and
        supports the proposal.
    • Cindy Reed wanted more information on the concept plan to evaluate the proposal.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Mr. Dudley addressed concerns with the Canyon Drive improvements, stating that an HOA will maintain the
       parkway and sidewalks. He also updated staff and the Commission, stating that a redesign of the layout has
       occurred that will get rid of the northern cul-de-sac.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • There was a lot of discussion regarding support for the R1.10 zone in the area, but that better connections could
       be made through the concept plan for the subdivision.
   • Laurie Urquiaga introduced the idea of pedestrian connections through the developments where roads were not
       an option.
   • Commission members agreed that being between two collectors does pose access and layout difficulties, so cul-
       de-sacs were an acceptable option for this area.
   • Deborah Jensen stated that the zone fits with the neighborhood and General Plan, but would hope for better
       connections in the future.
   • Commission members were concerned with the double-frontage lots, and thought rear access driveways or open
       fence ideas could improve the corridor.
   • Brian Henrie wondered what could be done in the cul-de-sacs to improve their appearance and cut down on
       asphalt; and if the extra space on Canyon Road could be used for improved bike paths.
   • Deborah made a more general statement that Provo roads need to be more than just “car-movers” and that the
       City should look at being more neighborhood friendly with streets.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission noted discrepancies with City Codes and continued the concept plan application to allow the
applicant to revise the plan to meet all City Codes and provide better road connections.




               Planning Commission Chair




            Director of Development Services
See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
