                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      July 13, 2022


*ITEM 3        Brad Mackay requests approval of Ordinance Text Amendments to Chapter 14.49E, Provo City Code, to
               adjust development standards in the SDP-5 (Villages at Celebration Specific Development Plan
               Overlay) zone and to amend the related Development Agreement. Lakeview North Neighborhood.
               Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20220107



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of July
13, 2022:


                                                 CONTINUED
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Raleen Whalin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Raleen Whalin, Lisa Jensen, Andrew South, Daniel Gonzales, Robert
Knudsen
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission also continued a related General Plan Map Amendment at the July 13 th hearing (Item #2, file
#PLGPA20220207)

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff gave an overview of the report and responded to questions from the Planning Commission.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.

                                                       Page 1 of 36
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Brad Mackay responded to questions regarding the concerns listed in the staff report. He stated that he is happy
       to revise his proposal to address the concerns of Planning staff and the Planning Commission.
   • Mr. Mackay also responded to questions regarding other landowners within the map area, that villages 3 and 5 on
       the proposed map are owned by other parties but will still be bound by the zone code as they are now. He also
       mentioned that the majority of villages one and two are already built.
   • Mr. Mackay described the thinking behind the lot coverage proposals, but said he can revise the text to mitigate
       concerns that the larger lot coverage standards could be applied throughout the zone. He also mentioned that the
       HOA will have governing power over the standards of the proposed zone and clarified that those properties that
       are not part of the HOA would still maintain their own landscaping and park strip.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Daniel Gonzales shared concerns about the proposed lot coverage standard and asked the applicant for examples
       where the proposed standard has worked.
   • Lisa Jensen stated that she shares the concerns that were described in the staff report and verified with the
       applicant that he can work with staff to revise the proposed text to resolve the listed concerns.
   • Melissa Kendall mentioned that she would like to see the revised copy before it moved on to the Council. Raleen
       Whalin followed that with her appreciation of the applicant to be openly willing to revise the text to address
       concerns.
   • Lisa Jensen brought forward to the rest of the Commission the idea of listing the concerns that need to be addressed
       and if that list should match what is described in the staff report. The Commission agreed with this strategy and
       listed a number of items to revise (see below for list).

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
   • That the applicant needs to come back to the Planning Commission after revising the following:
           o Remove proposal to reduce parking standard.
           o Keep the requirement for dumpster enclosures.
           o Revise the land use tables, specifically removing rock crushing from permitted uses.
           o Move the lot coverage standard into the bulk/intensity table and separate between villages.
           o Add language to clarify who is responsible for park strip maintenance.
           o Clean up formatting and organization issues.




               Planning Commission Chair



            Director of Development Services

                                                      Page 2 of 36
See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 36
EXHIBIT A




Page 4 of 36
Page 5 of 36
Page 6 of 36
Page 7 of 36
Page 8 of 36
Page 9 of 36
Page 10 of 36
Page 11 of 36
Page 12 of 36
Page 13 of 36
Page 14 of 36
Page 15 of 36
Page 16 of 36
Page 17 of 36
Page 18 of 36
Page 19 of 36
Page 20 of 36
Page 21 of 36
Page 22 of 36
Page 23 of 36
Page 24 of 36
Page 25 of 36
Page 26 of 36
Page 27 of 36
Page 28 of 36
Page 29 of 36
Page 30 of 36
Page 31 of 36
Page 32 of 36
Page 33 of 36
Page 34 of 36
Page 35 of 36
Page 36 of 36
