                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   November 10, 2021


 Item 8*       Community and Neighborhood Services requests the adoption of the Provo Conservation and Resiliency Plan
               to support the 2021 General Plan Update. Citywide application. Hannah Salzl 801-852-6423
               hsalzl@provo.org PLGPA20210367


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of
November 10, 2021:


                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to the Study Session and Public Hearing
 on January 12, 2022.


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Ally Jones
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Ally Jones, Laurie Urquiaga, Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 STAFF/APPLICANT PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following:
    • An overview of the General Plan and the process Staff and the consultants took to reach the final document,
        especially public input and next steps.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • One neighborhood chair commented in support of the General Plan and asked how the neighborhoods could be of
     assistance in the remainder of the process.
  • One member of the Conservation and Resiliency Plan Working Group, who also serves as the Sustainability
     Coordinator for Brigham Young University, said that BYU supports of the plan and noted how it supports the
     university’s purpose and goals.

 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
    • The Commissioners expressed support for the plan and gratitude to all who contributed to it.
    • Most of the Commissioners wanted more time to review the plans and see the input from the other City
        departments.
    • In the next Study Session, the Commissioners wanted to discuss the implementation goals in greater detail.
                 Planning Commission Chair




       Director of Development Services Department


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West
    100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office
    hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
