                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  December 11, 2024

    ITEM 5      Miller General Contractors request Project Plan approval for the demolition and rebuild of the Boys and
                Girls Club at 1060 East 150 North, in the PF (Public Facilities) Zone. Foothills Neighborhood. Jessica
                Dahneke (801) 852-6413 jdahneke@provo.org PLPPA20240208

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
December 11, 2024:
                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Daniel Gonzales
Second By: Adam Shin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Adam Shin, Barbara DeSoto, Daniel Gonzales, Jeff Whitlock, Melissa Kendall, Andrew South,
and Anne Allen
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• No Neighborhood or public comment was made regarding the item.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • No concerns were raised regarding the item.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The applicant, Jason Miller, Miller General Contractors had the director of the Boys and Girls Club explain the
       function of the Boys and Girls Club and explain that the new Club House at 1060 E 150 N will consolidate a few
       locations and serve as a hub for their after-school programs, nutrition programs, housing programs, and facility
       storage.
   • Jason Miller explained the closed loop parking lot was because of the engineering requirement, but the backing
       area provided is up to code and will provide space for vehicles to turn around.


                                                        Page 1 of 2
    •   The Director of the Boys and Girls Club stated that there were some neighborhood complaints with the old parking
        arrangement specifically during pickup and drop off times.
    •   The Director of the Boys and Girls Club explained the pickup process for the kids stating that the parent is to
        come in and show id before picking up their child.
    •   The Director of the Boys and Girls Club explained that they erred on the side of caution with calculating parking
        with the consolidation to ensure the parking calculated enough space for the employees and leave open spaces
        during pickup and drop-off times. He felt they were providing enough parking to meet the needs of the site without
        providing unnecessary amounts of parking.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioner Kendall asked if the parking could handle the consolidation of three locations into this
       establishment.
   • Commissioner DeSoto asked if the pickup and drop off was in a loop or if they go and park in a spot.
   • Commissioner Shin asked how many parking spaces were provided before and if there had been any complaints
       about street parking.
   • Commissioner Gonzales asked if the entrance to the new building would still be facing 150 North and since there
       isn’t a second exit if there is enough backing space in the parking lot for a car to turn around.
   • Commissioner Shin asked if the applicant felt they were providing an adequate amount of parking
   • Commissioner Whitlock stated that overparking is a concern as well and asked if the applicant felt if they might
       be providing too much parking.
   • Commissioner Gonzales stated that he feels that this is a thoughtful redesign of land and is a great use for the
       community.
   • Commissioner DeSoto Agreed stating she was proud that this was part of Provo.
   • Commissioner Gonzales made a motion to approve the project plan.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS



                                                       Page 2 of 2
