                                     Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
 *ITEM 8     The Development Services Department requests adoption of a resolution to the Planning Commission rules to
             permit public hearings to the held electronically. Citywide impact. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404
             aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20200095



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
25, 2020:


                                 POSITIVE RECOMENDATION
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Maria Winden
Second By: Russell Phillips
Votes in Favor of Motion: Maria Winden, Russell Phillips, Deborah Jensen, Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDED TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed PRO Zone is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
Staff stated the reason for the amendment was to satisfy the electronic public hearing executive order given by Utah State
Governor Herbert, and for future electronic meetings so that work can continue during public health restrictions.


NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following: The Planning Commission saw this as
necessary, and noted that this format of public hearing was helpful, due to the advanced public input it brought forward.
                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
