                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   December 07, 2022


*ITEM #1       The Provo City Council Office requests Ordinance Text Amendments to Titles 14 and 15 of the Provo
               City Code to make corrections regarding the Neighborhood District Program. Citywide application.
               Elizabeth VanDerwerken (801) 852-6120 evanderwerken@provo.org PLOTA20220370



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
December 07, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Raleen Whalin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Raleen Whalin, Daniel Gonzales, Melissa Kendall, Andrew South
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Eric Lemus, Provo City Legal, presented the changes to Titles 14 and 15, but noted the change
from the staff report to not strike Section 14.02.020(1) in its’ entirety, but only subsection (b).

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:

                                                       Page 1 of 14
    •   Becky Bogdin represented concerns from some of the neighborhood chairs that staff was removing the
        neighborhood program from City Code.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Staff responded to public concerns, indicating that the program will still be codified in Section 2.29 of the City
       Code, and that the proposed changes with this application is just cleaning up Titles 14 and 15 to be consistent
       with the new neighborhood program.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The commissioners asked questions of staff regarding the new program and responsibilities of the neighborhood
       chairs, the neighborhood coordinator, and how the changes would affect the current system.
   • Daniel Gonzales noted that he supports the changes and that having regularly scheduled neighborhood meetings
       would be an improvement to the program.
   • Andrew South believes the objectives are sound but would like to have a future study session to go over the
       changes to the program with the Planning Commission.
   • Melissa Kendall stated her support and that the neighborhoods still need to be informed of what applications are
       made in their areas.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 14
Page 3 of 14
Page 4 of 14
Page 5 of 14
Page 6 of 14
Page 7 of 14
Page 8 of 14
Page 9 of 14
Page 10 of 14
Page 11 of 14
Page 12 of 14
Page 13 of 14
Page 14 of 14
