                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                    March 22, 2023

 *ITEM 1     Tara Riddle requests annexation of approximately 106 acres located at approximately 2800 S 750 E. The
             subject property lies adjacent to the East Bay Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408
             PLANEX20220317


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of March
22, 2023:

                                    RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above-noted
 application.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Raleen Wahlin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen, Jeff Whitlock, and Raleen Wahlin.

Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

    •   Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
        changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and
        determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE ANNEXED
  • The property to be annexed is described in the attached Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
   • The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
     conclusions, and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
   • No city department issues were raised.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
   • The District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
   • No members of the public commented or raised concerns at this meeting.

 APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
    • The applicant was not present.

 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:



                                                       Page 1 of 3
    •   Commissioner Kendall asked staff what the tax impact to the citizens would be for the proposed annexation.
        Staff stated any tax impact would be minimal considering the size of the annexation area compared to the rest of
        the city.
    •   Commissioner Kendall questioned why not bring in the rest of Annexation Policy Area #2 with the proposed
        land (staff had shown a picture of Annexation Policy Area #2 to the Planning Commission). Staff explained that
        some or all the rest of Policy Area #2 may be proposed for annexation in the near future. However, there may
        be environmental/industrial concerns with some of this land, so the city will want to be judicious in annexing
        this area.
    •   Commissioner Knudsen wanted to know what plans the city has for this property if it is annexed. Staff
        explained the city has no development plans for the subject property.
    •   The Planning Commission acted to recommend approval of the proposed annexation to the City Council. The
        vote was 5-0.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 3
