                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  September 28, 2022


*ITEM 3       Robert Olsen requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to the SC3 (Regional Shopping Center) zone
              section 14.20.020, to add Standard Land Use Code 8222 (Animal Hospital) to the list of permitted uses.
              Citywide application. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6405 aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20220274


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 28, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen, Andrew South, Raleen Whalin, Jeff Whitlock
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 09/28/2022.
• The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.
• Citywide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. No concerns were raised at the hearing, the following public comments were made:
   • Becky Bogdin stated her support for the proposed text amendment.
                                                        Page 1 of 7
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The applicant stated he had nothing to add after the staff presentation.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission discussed the differences between a veterinary clinic and pet hospital. They felt
       comfortable with the use since it has built-in conditions.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 7
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 7
Page 4 of 7
Page 5 of 7
Page 6 of 7
Page 7 of 7
