                                     Provo City Planning Commission
                                         Report of Action
                                                    April 22, 2020

*Item 1       The Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests an ordinance amendment to Section
              15.20.090 of the Provo City Code, relating to Parking Lot Landscaping. The request seeks to increase the
              minimum canopy coverage and landscaping arrangement within new parking areas. Citywide application.
              Austin Taylor (801) 852-6423 PLOTA20190433


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of April
22, 2020:

                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended approval of this item to the Municipal Council: Ordinance text
amendment of 15.20.090 of the Provo City Code to change the parking lot landscaping standard, amended with a
requirement of concrete curbing around landscaping with inlets to allow runoff to infiltrate into landscaped areas.

Motion by: Dave Anderson
Second by: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Robert Knudsen, Deborah Jensen, Dave Anderson, Laurie Urquiaga, Maria
Winden, Lisa Jensen
Votes Opposed: None
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.


The motion includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 RELATED ACTIONS
 None

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 Austin Taylor presented on the proposed ordinance text amendment.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 None

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 This is a Citywide item

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 No public comment.
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
There was no public comment at the April 22 meeting, but when this proposal first came to the Planning Commission on
February 26, 2020, Sharon Memmet of Provo expressed concern that trees may get run over without curbing. She also
said that her large cars do not fit in parking spaces with landscaped diamonds.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Members of the Planning Commission like that the proposal increases the number of required trees and has a large list of
tree options for developers to choose from. Dave Anderson expressed doubt that parking lot landscaping would be well-
maintained without concrete curbing around it. Several commission members agreed. Dave moved that the Planning
Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City Council but that the code keep the requirement of curbing
and add a requirement to cut inlets in the curbing to allow storm water flow into the landscaped areas.




                 Planning Commission Chair




            Director of Community Development



See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
   application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community and Neighborhood Services
   Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
