                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   February 12, 2025


*ITEM 3      Tom Taylor requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Section 14.16.020 (Permitted Uses) to add Group
             Quarters as a permitted use in the PO (Professional Office) Zone. Citywide Application. Hannah Salzl
             (801) 852-6423 hsalzl@provo.gov PLOTA20240386

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 12, 2025:
                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Barbara DeSoto
Votes in Favor of Motion: Adam Shin, Barbara DeSoto, Jonathon Hill, Andrew South, Melissa Kendall, Jeff Whitlock
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• Citywide Application; all Neighborhood District Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• A representative from the Maeser District read comments from residents that were not submitted
    • Two were supportive of creative ways to get more much-needed housing downtown.
    • Two were supportive based on past projects from the applicant.
    • Two wanted more information before weighing in.

                                                        Page 1 of 5
    •   Nine were opposed because of the shared kitchen and bathrooms, which they said do not encourage long-term
        tenants.
       • Many seemed to believe that there would be one bathroom shared among 20 residents, which is not the case.
•   Residents did not want to see this become transient housing.
•   One resident wanted to know the requirements for parking.
•   Someone who owned two buildings next to the project described how businesses in the area have worked hard to
    clean up the area and create a sense of place. He had concerns about 20 people sharing one bathroom and the kind of
    people that would attract to the area.
•   One resident wanted a better definition of “group quarters” but supported the idea of urban dorms such as this.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• They run the Startup and Bright Buildings and have many entrepreneurs there who are in need of affordable housing.
   They do not want roommates but cannot afford much while starting their small businesses.
• The adaptive reuse of the building will meet this need and revitalize the area.
• The original assisted living facility had 34 tenants, but they plan to decrease it to 20 with private rooms.
   • About half of the rooms have private bathrooms. There are two large bathroom areas that will contain three
       dressing rooms each (six total) that lock individually and have a shower, toilet, and sink inside. There are about
       1.5 tenants per shared bathroom (not including those with private bathrooms). There are additional bathrooms
       throughout the building as well.
   • All of the rooms have private kitchenettes in addition to the shared commercial-scale kitchen.
• Each room is approximately 150 square feet.
• They plan for $400-600 per room per month and are working on refining that estimate.
• The units will be for men only so that students from Brigham Young University can live there.
• The zone already does not allow short-term rentals (defined as habitation of fewer than 30 days).
• If a tenant were to bring in a roommate, they would be in violation of their rental contract.
• It will need internal upgrades to plumbing and electrical.
• The design in the Staff Report is the current layout, but the basic layout would not change much.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• The Commission asked what was permitted under “group quarters.” If this proposed amendment is passed and group
   quarters becomes a permitted use again in Provo, staff will expand on the definition. Staff did not want to slow the
   adaptive reuse application down, and the permitted area is so small and well developed that no other group quarters
   applications are expected in the near future.
• Commissioner Whitlock created a startup in Provo and understands the needs of young founders who pay themselves
   very small salaries. He agreed that this project is exactly what those members of the community need. He also vouched
   for the past success of the applicants’ projects.
• Commissioner DeSoto recently stayed in a hostel with a similar setup that was very comfortable and thought this
   group housing project would meet a community need.
• Bill Peperone clarified that short term rentals are not allowed in the PO zone.
• Commissioner Hill supported the idea and expressed a desire to see basic development standards for the project in the
   absence of zoning requirements. Commissioner Whitlock pointed out that those could be agreed on during concept
   plan review, and Bill Peperone said that Planning Commission review is optional for concept plans but that staff
   would bring it to them in this case. The applicants supported this idea.
• Dan Gonzales suggested that boarding house style residences might be appropriate uses in broader areas of the city,
   as long as they are well maintained and do not become short-term transient housing. Bill Peperone said that if the
   Planning Commission would like to pursue that, staff can consider other zones where it might be applicable.
• Commissioner Kendall supported the idea and wants to help people start new businesses in the community. She asked
   about ways to include requirements and protections. Bill Peperone possibility of adding group quarters as a conditional
   use rather than a permitted one. This would not slow down the applicant as long as staff could overlap their project
   plan and conditional use permit applications, as long as the conditional use was added to the zone as part of this
   discussion.

                                                       Page 2 of 5
•   Commissioner South said that he was not concerned. The area where it would be permitted is small, and the part of
    the city is appropriate for it. He did not want to hold up the application by adding requirements now. They could be
    done in concept plan review.
•   Commissioner DeSoto agreed with Commissioner South and was eager to see the property improved.
•   Staff noted the option to recommend approval with conditions to the Council and recommending that the use be
    moved to the Conditional Uses table and that minimal requirements or conditions be added.
•   Commissioner Shin liked this idea and wanted to require a minimum number of bathrooms.
•   The Commission supported the plan and wanted time to figure out what the requirements would be. They did not
    want to take that time now and were comfortable setting those during the concept plan review.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 5
                                                       EXHIBIT A

14.16.020 (Permitted Uses)

(1) Those uses or categories of uses as listed herein, and no others, are permitted in the PO zone.

...

(4) Permitted Principal Uses. The following principal uses and structures, and no others, are permitted in the PO zone:

                  Use No.                                  Use Classification
                  1200            Group quarters (For properties with frontage on Center Street,
                                  not in homes on historic registry)
                  4811            Electric transmission right-of-way (Identifies areas where the
                                  surface is devoted exclusively to the right-of-way of the
                                  activity)
                  4821            Gas pipeline right-of-way (Identifies areas where the surface is
                                  devoted exclusively to the right-of-way of the activity)
                  4824            Gas pressure control stations
                  4831            Water pipeline right-of-way (Identifies areas where the surface
                                  is devoted exclusively to the right-of-way of the activity.
                  4835            Irrigation distribution channels
                  4836            Water pressure control stations and pumping plants
                  4841            Sewage pipeline right-of-way (Identifies areas where surface is
                                  devoted exclusively to right-of-way activity)
                  4844            Sewage pumping stations
                  4864            Combination utilities right-of-way (Identifies areas where
                                  surface is devoted exclusively to right-of-way activity)
                  4873            Storm drain or right-of-way (Predominantly covered pipes or
                                  boxes)
                  4923            Travel Agencies
                  5912            Prescription pharmacy (intended for the convenience of
                                  permitted establishments and/or clients thereof, provided that
                                  no business occupies more than fifteen percent (15%) of the
                                  total floor area of the building in which it is located and has no
                                  separate entrance)
                  6100            Financial, Insurance and Real Estate Services
                  6311            Advertising services (office only)
                  6320            Consumer credit services
                  6330            Duplicating, stenographic, and office services
                  6340            Dwelling, janitorial, and other building services (office only)
                  6350            News syndicate services (office only)
                  6360            Employment services
                  6390            Miscellaneous business services (office only)

                                                        Page 4 of 5
      6500   Professional Services (except 6513, 6515 Behavior, drug and
             alcohol treatment; office only, no lodging or bed facilities,
             6516)
      6710   Executive, legislative, and judicial offices
      6900   Miscellaneous service organizations (office only)
      6910   Religious activities
      7112   Museums
      7398   Video Rental Shops

...




                                  Page 5 of 5
