                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                      May 13, 2020


 ITEM 2       Todd Sinks requests Project Plan Approval for 736 apartment units, located at 178 E 1860 S in the Campus
              Mixed Use zone. East Bay Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404, aardmore@provo.org
              PLPPA20190183




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of May
13, 2020:


                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 5:2, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application as presented.


Motion By: Andrew Howard
Second By: Maria Winden
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Maria Winden, Deborah Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga, Russ Phillips
Votes Against the Motion: Lisa Jensen, Dave Anderson
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
Total number of units: 325
Type of occupancy approved: One family or three singles

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
Total number of parking stalls: 513
Number of parking stalls per unit: 1.58

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following: Staff gave an overview of the updated site plan, floor plans, elevations, and unit and parking counts.
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• A transportation demand management program was presented and accepted to reduce parking per Section 14.37.050,
   Provo City Code. This gave the project a reduction of 48 parking stalls.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Mikah Wheatley stated that the parking provided was not enough for the number of apartments proposed.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Chris Huntsman (architect) answered questions about the project design and presented a video walk-through of
       the project, along with showing several renderings. He also answered questions regarding west facing windows,
       stating they will be a UV-rated window to deal with the heat.
   • Jared Nielson (builder) answered questions about parking garage design, stating that spaces will be assigned to
       tenants, and that the garage will use mechanical cross-ventilation. He also stated that there will be on-site
       managers and maintenance personnel.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Several Commissioners had questions regarding design of the parking garage, which were answered by the
       applicants architect and builder.
   • Discussion was had among the Commission members regarding amount of parking, and the ability to overflow
       to the street, the medical school, and be mitigated on the second phase property.
   • Dave Anderson and Lisa Jensen stated they were not comfortable with the parking reduction.
   • There was discussion regarding the parking reduction; that if it does not work on phase one, then phase two could
       be parked at a higher standard.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
