                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   February 23, 2022


Item 4*       The Development Services Department requests an amendment to the Downtown Streetscape Standards
              to add the description of the sidewalk area. Citywide impact. Javin Weaver (801)852-6413
              jweaver@provo.org PLGPA20220048



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of
February 23, 2022:


                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 8:1, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Miles Miller
Second By: Ally Jones
Votes in Favor of Motion: Alley Jones, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga, Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen,
Peter Fife, and Miles Miller
Votes Against Motion: Dave Anderson
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.
•    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
     Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A-D.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
   • Staff explained that a few minor corrections needed to be made to the Downtown Streetscape text to allow
       development to occur more easily.
   • Staff explained the changes to the Required Street Trees (Table 1).


CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• Citywide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.


                                                        Page 1 of 7
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• There was no neighborhood chair or public comment made.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Dave Anderson commented that street trees are an important part of the downtown streetscape and recommended
       discussion should occur about sidewalk widths and permeable landscaping.
   • Brian Henrie had some questions about the types of trees.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 7
EXHIBIT A

Changed Amended 2019 to 2022 (author page)

Removed…Community Development Services Director of Provo City (author page)

Removed Director Gary McGinn and added Bill Pepperone (author page)

Removed Planning Supervisor Brian Maxfield and added Brandon Larsen (author page)

Added Staff Javin Weaver (author page)

Added frontage zone, pedestrian zone, amenity zone and buffer zone and figures page back in with the addition of
dimensions to Page 5 (see Exhibit B)

FRONTAGE ZONE
The frontage zone describes the area between the building and the property line. The frontage zone provides a space for
sidewalk cafes, temporary signage, small planters, and a space where casual window shoppers may stop and gaze
without inhibiting the pedestrian through traffic.
Spatial Standard: The frontage zone is typically a minimum of two feet, but can be extended in width up to the
   maximum setback allowed by City Code.

PEDESTRIAN ZONE
Acting as the primary accessible sidewalk, the pedestrian zone provides a clear pathway adequate for pedestrian traffic
to pass through unobstructed from the other adjacent activities occurring nearby. The activities and installations in the
frontage and amenity zones should not encroach on this area.
Spatial Standard: A minimum of six feet should be maintained in all instances in the Downtown area. On streets
   identified as main pedestrian corridors (Univ Ave, Center St, 100 W 500 W, 300 S and 600 S), a width of eight feet or
   greater should be considered.

AMENITY ZONE
The amenity zone is critical in defining the pedestrian character of an urban street. This zone includes street trees and
other landscaping in appropriately designed planters, as well as interspersed street furnishings such as street lighting
and bike racks.
Spatial Standard: Five feet is a typical width for this zone, however, special circumstances may require a smaller width to
   ensure adequate pedestrian zone is maintained in tight corridors. Priority should be given to the pedestrian zone in
   this case.

BUFFER ZONE
Serving as a buffer between pedestrian-oriented areas and vehicular traffic, the buffer zone provides a flexible area to
be used for supporting items such as on-street parking, outdoor dining, and landscaped bulb-outs. These enhancements
can calm traffic and offer support for businesses through character defining elements at the street.
                                                        Page 3 of 7
Spatial Standard: Width of this zone is strictly context-sensitive. Priorities of each street can determine the width.


Changed the tree grate sizes from inches to feet dimensions 36x72, 48x96, and 60x120 to 3’x6’, 4’x8’, and 5’x10’ in
Amenity section on Page 8

Edited the graphic of the brick paver layout with removing an arrow and added the text ;additional pavers would go
along curb edge in Amenity section on Page 10 (see Exhibit D)

Added the text west side and east side on the 100 West street cross section on Page 14




                                                         Page 4 of 7
EXHIBIT B




            Page 5 of 7
EXHIBIT C




            Page 6 of 7
EXHIBIT D




            Page 7 of 7
