                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                   February 26, 2020


PLGPA20200038       The Public Works Department requests a General Plan Amendment for adoption of the 2020
                    Transportation Master Plan. Citywide application. Robert Mills (801) 852-6407 rmills@provo.org
                    PLGPA20200038




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 26, 2020:


                                    RECOMMEND APPROVAL
 On a vote of4:1, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application
 with the following modifications to the Transportation Master Plan Active Transportation
     1. 600 South should be a citywide corridor (blue) instead of a neighborhood corridor.
     2. 2500 West corridor should be designated as “neighborhood” (green).
     3. 2050 West/Geneva Road should be a citywide corridor (blue).
     4. 1600 West should be a neighborhood corridor (green).
     5. 1100 West should be a neighborhood corridor (green).
     6. 1150 South should be a citywide corridor (blue) that extends to the regional park.


Motion By: Andrew Howard
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Robert Knudsen, Maria Winden, and Lisa Jensen
Votes Opposed to Motion: Laurie Urquiaga
Maria Winden was present as Acting Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 STAFF PRESENTATION TO THE PLANNING COMMISSION
 Staff provided details of the proposed Master Plan and the proposed projects within the plan. Staff detailed the addition
 of a new “Active Transportation” section of the plan and answered questions. Clancy Black, Transportation and Mobility
 Advisory Committee Chair also addressed the Planning Commission and provided recommendations for expanded areas
 of the active transportation network. Those suggestions were incorporated as part of the approved motion (also attached
 to this report).

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • Three Public Open Houses have been held regarding the proposed Transportation Master Plan.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• Multiple Neighborhood Chair(s) were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
   - Becky Bogdin, Lakewood Neighborhood Chair, spoke generally in favor of the plan but also added that 1150
     South should be extended as a citywide corridor for active transportation from 1600 West to the new regional
     park.
   - Paul Evans, Pleasant View Neighborhood Chair, provided a copy of concerns primarily focused on 2200/2230
     North (attached to this report). He supports the change in specific designation from a 5-lane design to a yet-to-
     be-determined design to address safety and capacity.


CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    - Other comments from the public primarily focused on the desire to not expand 2200/2230 North.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   - The applicant responded favorably to the proposed changes to the active transportation corridors.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   - Ms. Urquiaga commented that she would prefer to continue the item to have more time for further discussion.
   - Other members felt that sufficient discussion had occurred and were comfortable moving the item forward with
       the proposed recommendation and modifications.




                 Planning Commission Chair




    Director of Community and Neighborhood Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West
    100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office
    hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
