                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      June 10, 2020

 Item 6*         Provo City Council Office requests an ordinance amendment to establish the Critical Hillside (CH)
                 Overlay Zone to provide development standards to help protect the sensitive hillside areas of Provo
                 City’s east bench. Citywide Impact. Brandon Larsen (801) 852- 6408 jblarsen@provo.org
                 PLOTA20200077


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of June
10, 2020:

           RECOMMENDATION OF APPROVAL with CONDITIONS
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended approval of the above noted application with conditions.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew Howard, Deborah Jensen, Dave Anderson, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, and Robert
Knudsen

Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.


 STAFF PRESENTATION

 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Overview of revisions to the proposed ordinance and outstanding concerns related to the creation of the Critical
 Hillside (CH) Overlay Zone.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
    • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
    • Sharon Memmott questioned why notice was sent to individual property owners when this is a City-wide
      application. Why is the map shrinking? It is time to move forward with this proposal.
    • Angela Mourik was worried about the watering-down of the proposed ordinance. The ordinance should be used
      to be forward-thinking and promote sustainable preservation of Provo’s foothills.
    • Alex Grow expressed that the proposal is flawed and that ridgeline regulations are redundant and punitive to
      developers who have yet to develop their land. The City already has 30-percent slope requirements. Requirements
      of the CH Zone take away 60-percent of a lot from being developed. The proper role of government is to protect
      property owner’s rights. Do not recommend approval of this proposal.
    • Kaye Nelson believes the original version was too far-reaching, but now she believes the current version has too
      many exceptions. The CH Zone is good for Provo; it doesn’t stop development. Let’s give future generations the
      same access to the foothills we now enjoy. Keep the proposal strong.
    • Cindy and Russ Taylor asked please don’t weaken the hillside overlay document. We need a document with teeth
      that will protect our foothills. We need to protect the green-space in the foothills.
    •   Kenneth Grow felt that some of the proposed ridgelines look more like a bench or swell. Ridgeline, 30-percent
        slope, and limits of disturbance requirements make much of the land completely undevelopable. This proposal is
        over-restrictive.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission approved this item with one (1) condition and noted five (5) outstanding “loose-ends”
       or issues that need to be addressed.

             o   Condition of approval:
                    ▪ That the limits of disturbance requirements for a lot be revised to include a ten-percent allowance
                         for landscaping, only, in addition to the currently proposed forty-percent allowance. It was
                         specifically mentioned at this meeting that the allowance was for landscaping and not dwellings.

             o   Noted loose-ends or outstanding issues to address:
                      ▪ Encouraging reclamation of blighted foothill areas
                      ▪ Encouraging clustering of developments
                      ▪ Reduce ridgelines to only those with highest prominence
                      ▪ Boundaries of the map
                               • What to do with islands or parcels surrounded by existing development?
                               • Diminished, disjointed zone boundaries—Should original boundaries be restored and a
                                   tiered map be established that indicates those parcels that are immediately subject to CH
                                   Zone requirements and those parcels that would be subject to the Zone requirements at
                                   the time of redevelopment of the property?
                      ▪ Limits of Disturbance
             o   The issue of who should grant an increase in the number of terrace walls and wall height—in the event
                 that an applicant demonstrates their property has been rendered inaccessible by the wall and terracing
                 requirements of the CH Zone—was discussed. The current proposal identifies the Planning Commission
                 as the body that may grant such an increase. The Planning Commission generally expressed the belief
                 that this increase should be granted by staff; however, their recommendation didn’t include a request for
                 this change.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West 100
South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours
are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
          Attachment “A”: Chapter 14.33A -- CH - CRITICAL HILLSIDE OVERLAY ZONE

          Attachment “A”: Chapter 14.33A -- CH - CRITICAL HILLSIDE OVERLAY ZONE

                                          Chapter 14.33A
                              CH - CRITICAL HILLSIDE OVERLAY ZONE


Sections:
   14.33A.010 Purpose and Objectives.
   14.33A.020 Definitions.
   14.33A.030 Use in Combination.
   14.33A.040 Development in the Critical Hillside (CH) Overlay Zone.
   14.33A.050 Permitted Uses.
   14.33A.060 Development Standards.
   14.33A.070 Provision of Facilities.
   14.33A.080 Project Plan Approval/Design Review/Design Guidelines.
   14.33A.090 Limits of Disturbance(LOD).
   14.33A.100 Slope Protection and Stability.
   14.33A.110 Detention Basin Design.
   14.33A.120 Ridgelines.
   14.33A.130 Streets and Access.
   14.33A.140 Trails.
   14.33A.150 Fences.
   14.33A.160 Tree and Vegetation Protection.
   14.33A.170 Geological and Natural Hazards.
   14.33A.180 Stream Corridor and Wetland Protection.
   14.33A.190 Traffic Requirements.
   14.33A.200 Parking Requirements.
   14.33A.210 Design Standards.
   14.33A.220 Cluster Developments.
   14.33A.230 Other Requirements.


   14.33A.010         Purpose and Objectives.

   The Critical Hillside (CH) Overlay Zone is established to provide prudent development standards to help
   protect the sensitive hillside areas of Provo City’s east bench. The requirements of the CH Overlay Zone
   impose additional or prevailing requirements to those required by the underlying zone. The provisions of
   this zone are intended to aid in the protection of ridgelines, to support the stability of slopes, and to protect
   existing public accesses. Trees and other vegetation provide earth-stabilizing and aesthetic benefits. The
   provisions of this zone help preserve existing vegetation and require the reestablishment of vegetation areas
   disturbed in the development process. Design standards are included herein to preserve and complement the
   natural beauty and ecological health of Provo’s hillside areas. The requirements of this zone consider the
   potential slope, fire, and natural hazards associated with the hillside areas and require mitigation of these
   hazards in the development process.
14.33A.020         Definitions

For the purpose of this Chapter, the following words and terms shall be defined, as follows:

“Approved fire protection plan” means the fire protection plan approved by the applicable fire authority.

“Bench” means a naturally occurring broad, generally flat, elevated terrace landform with an abrupt slope
on one side.

“Caliper” means a standard trunk diameter measurement for nursery grown trees taken six (6) inches above
the ground for trees up to and including four (4) inch caliper size, and twelve (12) inches above the ground
for larger size trees.

“Cluster development” means the grouping of residential properties on lots smaller than allowed in the
underlying zone to reduce infrastructure costs and environmental impacts and to reserve otherwise
developable land for open space.

“Defensible space” means the required space between a structure and wildland area that, under normal
conditions, creates a sufficient buffer to slow or halt the spread of wildfire to a structure.

“Density bonus” means a residential density increase—beyond the density allowed by the underlying
zoning—obtained by constructing and dedicating a trail or trailhead to the City, or clustering development,
as set forth in this Chapter.

“Developed parcel” means (1) a parcel with a dwelling or (2) a parcel that is part of a dwelling site.

“Drip line” means a vertical line extending from the outermost edge of the tree canopy or shrub branch to
the ground.

“Hard surface” means asphalt or concrete or similar impervious materials.

“Limits of disturbance (LOD)” means the area(s) in which construction and development activity are to be
contained, including development and construction of the main building, accessory structures, and
recreation areas. The following need not be included in limits of disturbance:

   (a) Up to ten feet of paved or unpaved shoulders for driveways.

   (b) Areas consisting of natural ponds, streams, trees, and other vegetation where no grading work is
   done.

“Natural open space” means land in a predominantly open and undeveloped condition that is suitable for
any of the following: natural areas; wildlife and native plant habitat; important wetlands or watershed lands;
stream corridors; passive, low-impact activities; little or no land disturbance; or trails for non-motorized
activities.

“Net developable acreage” means land that possesses all of the following characteristics:

   (a) Has a slope of no more than thirty percent (30%), unless an exception to permitted slope is obtained,
   as may be allowed in Title 14 or 15 of the Provo City Code.
   (b) Is located a minimum distance from any stream corridor or wetland as established in this Chapter.

   (c) Is not located within one-hundred feet (map distance) from either side of the crest of a ridgeline
   designated for protection by the Planning Commission.

   (d) Is not a right-of-way or road.

   (e) Is not prohibited from being developed, as per the following: (1) the provisions of Chapter 15.05 of
   the Provo City Code related to geological and natural hazards, or any other applicable provision of the
   Provo City Code, or other applicable state or federal law; or (2) a recorded document that prohibits the
   development of any portion of the property and is legally binding on the property owner.

“Non-sight-obscuring fencing” means fencing that is more than fifty percent 50% open.

“Open space” means any area of a lot that is completely free and unobstructed from any human-made
structure or parking areas.

“Ordinary high-water mark” means the line on the bank to which the high water of a stream ordinarily
rises annually in seasons, as indicated by changes in the characteristics of soil, vegetation, or other
appropriate means that consider the characteristics of the surrounding areas. Where the ordinary high-water
mark cannot be found, the top of the channel bank shall be used in place of the ordinary high-water mark. In
braided channels, the ordinary high-water mark, or substitute channel bank, shall be measured so as to
include the entire stream feature.

“Overlay zone” means a zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying zones and that imposes
additional or alternative requirements to that required by the underlying zone.

“Ridge” means the elongated crest at the apex or uppermost point of the intersection between two opposite
slopes of a hill or mountain.

“Ridgeline” means a line, designated for protection by the City, connecting the highest points along a ridge
and separating drainage basins or small scale drainage systems from one another. A bench is not a ridgeline.

“Significant trees” means live trees of six-inch caliper or greater, groves of five or more smaller live trees,
or clumps of live oak or maple covering an area of fifty square feet to the drip line perimeter.

“Slope” means the level of inclination of land from the horizontal plane determined by dividing the
horizontal run or distance of the land into the vertical rise or distance of the same land and converting the
resulting figure in a percentage value.

“Stream” means a body of flowing water; natural water course containing water at least intermittently.

“Stream corridor” means the corridor defined by a constant or intermittent stream’s ordinary high-water
mark.

“Tree” means a woody plant with a distinct central trunk.
“Vegetation” Means living plant material, including but not limited to trees, shrubs, flowers, grass, herbs,
and ground cover.

“Water-wise plant species” means low water use plants, trees, shrubs, and ground cover.


14.33A.030         Use in Combination.

The CH Zone shall overlay and be used in combination with existing conventional zones or project specific
zones. If there is a conflict between the provisions in this Chapter and the requirements of Title 14 or 15 of
the Provo City Code, the requirements of this Chapter shall take precedence. The CH Zone shall not be
applied to any land as an independent zone. Property to which the CH Zone has been applied shall be
developed only in conformance with the applicable, approved project plan, subdivision, or other approved
development plans. Written references to a zone that is overlain by the CH Zone, including those on the
Zone Map of Provo City, shall include the underlying zone, along with the acronym of the overlay zone,
e.g., R110CH.


14.33A.040         Development in Critical Hillside (CH) Overlay Zone.

(1) All development in the CH Zone, including, but not limited to, grading, clearing, and excavation, shall
comply with the applicable provisions of this Chapter.

(2) The submittal of maps, plans, narratives, or any other document necessary to demonstrate compliance
with this Chapter shall be submitted to the Coordinator Review Committee for review.

(3) Notwithstanding any other provision in Title 14 or 15 of the Provo City Code, all proposals for
residential and nonresidential developments in the CH Zone, as well as all proposals for main buildings,
except for one-family detached dwellings, shall obtain a recommendation from the Design Review
Committee.

(4) The provisions of this Chapter shall not apply in the following situations:

   (a) for lots created prior to the effective date of the ordinance establishing the Critical Hillside (CH)
   Overlay Zone;

   (b) for developed parcels (not lying in a development plat) developed prior to the effective date of the
   ordinance establishing the Critical Hillside (CH) Overlay Zone;

   (c) for parcels or lots actively and solely used in the operation of a public or private
   cemetery; and

   (d) for public parks.
14.33A.050                Permitted Uses.

Uses permitted in the CH Zone shall be limited to those listed as permitted uses by the provisions of the
underlying zone with which the CH Zone has been combined.


14.33A.060                Development Standards.

Development in the CH Zone shall conform to the development standards required by the provisions of the
underlying zone with which the CH Zone is combined.


14.33A.070                Provision of Facilities.

The requirements of the Adequate Public Facilities section of Chapter 15.03, Provo City Code, shall be met.


14.33A.080                Project Plan Approval/Design Review/Design Guidelines.

See Sections 15.03.020, 15.03.300 and 15.03.310, Chapter 14.04A, Section 14.34.280, Section 14.34.285,
and Section 14.34.287, Provo City Code.


14.33A.090                Limits of Disturbance (LOD).

(1) Limits of disturbance shall be located and identified on development plans indicating the specific
area(s) of a property where construction and development activity shall be contained.

(2) Limits of disturbance for a single lot or parcel may be segmented; . however, nNo more than forty (40)
percent of a lot or parcel may be included in the LOD, except that an additional ten (10) percent of the lot
may be disturb for landscaping, only, including non-native vegetation, and shall be considered within the
LOD.

(3) Upon request of the applicant, and only for those properties developed prior to establishment of the CH
Zone, the Development Services Director may offer relief of the standards in this Section by up to ten
percent (10%), only if he/she finds one of the following circumstances applies:

   (a) The adjustment is designed to yield more effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation,
       riparian areas, rock outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site; or

   (b) Strict application of the standard(s) would prohibit any development on the site.
14.33A.100                Slope Protection and Stability.

(1) All development in the CH Zone shall comply with the applicable grading, fill, cutting, excavation,
relocation of material, and drainage requirements of Title 15, as well as any such requirements in Title 18,
of the Provo City Code, except that the provisions of this Chapter shall supersede any conflicting provisions
in Title 14, 15, or 18 of the Provo City Code.

(2) Structures shall be set back from ascending or descending slopes greater than thirty percent (30%) in
accordance with the requirements of the currently adopted building code.

(3) Unless expressly allowed in Title 14 or Title 15 of the Provo City Code, all areas with a slope greater
than thirty percent (30%) must remain in natural private or natural public open space; however, no portion
of this Chapter shall be interpreted to eliminate the provisions of Chapter 15.05 of this Code that allow for
exceptions for grading and developing hillside slopes that exceed thirty percent (30%).

(4) All cut, filled, and graded human-made slopes, created or disturbed through the applicant’s development
activities, shall be re-contoured to the natural, varied contour of the surrounding terrain.

(5) Notwithstanding the requirements in Subsection (4), immediately above, the use of terraced retaining
walls is permitted to reduce the steepness of human-made slopes and to provide planting pockets conducive
to re-vegetation. The following requirements apply for terraced retaining walls and vertical walls:

   (a) Terraces created between retaining walls shall be permanently landscaped or re-vegetated.

   (b) Terracing is limited to three (3) walls with a maximum vertical height of eight (8) feet each. The
   width of a terrace shall be a minimum of a one-to-one ratio with the height of the wall. Terraces are
   measured from the back of the lower wall to the face of the upper wall. Terraces created between
   retaining walls shall be permanently landscaped or re-vegetated.
           (i) The Planning Commission may grant an increase in the number of terrace walls or an increase
           in vertical height of a terrace wall, if the applicant provides documentation, which has been
           stamped by an engineer licensed in the State of Utah, that demonstrates the property to be
           developed would be inaccessible without granting an increase.

   (c) Retaining walls shall be faced with stone or earth-colored materials similar to the surrounding
   natural landscape.

   (d) Vertical walls are only allowed if approved by the City Engineer and if the following criteria are
   met:

        (i) The applicant provides documentation, which has been stamped by an engineer or landscape
        architect licensed in the State of Utah, that demonstrates an environmental, aesthetic, or safety
        concern with installing retaining walls on the subject property.

        (ii) The vertical wall shall be constructed of earth-colored materials similar to the surrounding
        natural landscape.

   (e) All applicable building code requirements must be met and applicable permits obtained.
   (f) Figure 14.33A.1: Terracing and Retaining Wall--Permitted




                    (Retaining wall faced with stone. Terraces have been revegetated.)


   (g) Figure 14.33A.2: Terracing and Retaining Wall--Not Permitted




                            (Wall is not constructed of earth-colored materials
                         and does not provide opportunities for planting pockets.)


14.33A.110                 Detention Basin Design.

(1) If detention basins or other storm and erosion control facilities are utilized or required in the
development of a lot or parcel such shall comply with the following design standards:

   (a) Detention basins shall be free form, following the natural landforms. If such forms do not exist, the
   basin shall be shaped to emulate a naturally formed depression.

   (b) Redistributing soils from basin construction to natural side slopes around the perimeter of the basin
   is encouraged. Side slopes are created to filter, redirect, or soften views of the basin. Total screening of
   basins is not required. Side slopes shall be varied to replicate natural conditions.
(c) Naturalized planting themes are required for basins. Trees and shrubs may be grouped in informal
patterns to emulate the natural environment but may not reduce the volume of the basin. However, no
trees, shrubs, or other large, woody vegetation on the embankment is permitted. The location and type of
vegetation shall allow for access and regular maintenance.

(d) The ground surface of the basin and surrounding disturbed areas shall be covered with native grass
mixture or other appropriate groundcover approved by the City Engineer. It is the intent to provide a
natural cover that does not require regular mowing or fertilization.

(e) Vegetation and trees planted and established in connection with a detention basin shall be drought-
tolerant, firewise vegetation permitted through an approved fire protection plan.

(f) Figure 14.33A.3: Detention Basin Design--Permitted




                 (This is a free form basin that fits in the natural surroundings.)


(g) Figure 14.33A.4: Detention Basin Design--Not Permitted




           (This is not a free form basin and is without natural side slopes. Little or no
                 vegetation has been established to give it a natural appearance.)
14.33A.120                 Ridgelines.


(1) No development, including utility infrastructure, may break the horizon line, defined as the point where
the ridgeline visibly meets the sky as viewed from public rights of way or trails.

(2) No development, including utility infrastructure, may be located within one-hundred feet (map distance)
from either side of the crest of a ridgeline designated for protection by the City.

(3) No ridgeline shall be designated on a parcel or platted lot that is contiguous to platted lots and/or
developed parcels along at least three-quarters (3/4) of its boundary.


(4) Figure 14.33A.5: Ridgeline Development--Permitted




                   (These structures have been sited significantly lower than the ridgeline.)


(5) Figure 14.33A.6: Ridgeline Development—Not Permitted




                                 (This structure has been sited on a ridgeline.)
(6) Figure 14.33A.7: Ridgelines Designated for Protection by Provo City




                                       Inclusion of Ridgeline Map
14.33A.130                Streets and Access.

(1) All development in the CH Zone shall comply with the applicable street and access requirements of
Titles 14 and 15 of the Provo City Code, including the Street Standards section of Chapter 15.03.

(2) Streets, roads, alleys, or driveways shall follow natural contour lines where possible to minimize cuts
and fills.

(3) An easement shall be granted to Provo City over and across all private development roads for utility
maintenance and fire and emergency access.

(4) A development of thirteen (13) or more lots, or thirteen (13) or more dwelling units, shall have at least
two (2) points of ingress and egress. All developments shall be connected to the City’s street system at two
(2) different access locations. This requirement for second access shall supersede any conflicting second
access requirement in the Provo City Code.

(5) Grading for streets, roads, alleys, or driveways is limited to the paved portion of such access and other
associated, required access improvements, plus up to an additional ten feet on either side of the pavement
and required improvements. However, when developing streets, roads, alleys, or driveways on slopes in
excess of twenty-five percent, only the paved portion of the access used for vehicular travel, plus the
minimum area for any required, associated access improvements, such as curb, gutter or sidewalk, may be
graded. The remainder of the access must be left undisturbed.

   (i) In the CH Zone, the City Engineer may allow the use of street- or road-side swales, or other similar
   street construction convention, instead of curb and gutter, when he/she determines that such swales, or
   other similar road construction convention, will provide a more efficient, safe, or practical means of
   managing water runoff related to a street or road.

(6) Any development that abuts on public land that has an existing access to the public land shall maintain
the access by providing a public access road through the development to the public land.

(7) Figure 14.33A.8: Roads in the CH Zone Following Natural Contours—Permitted




                           (This road follows the natural contours of the land.)
(8) Figure 14.33A.9: Roads in the CH Zone Following Natural Contours—Not Permitted




           (This road has excessive cuts and does not follow the natural contour of the land.)


14.33A.140                Trails and Public Accesses.

(1) A density bonus is available, as follows:

   (a) A one percent (1%) density bonus for each one percent (1%) of land developed and dedicated to
   Provo City for a hard surface, linear trail for a maximum bonus of ten percent (10%).

   (b) A one-half percent (0.5%) density bonus for each one percent (1%) of land developed and dedicated
   to Provo City for a graveled, linear trail for a maximum bonus of ten percent (10%).

   (c) A three percent (3%) density bonus for the construction of a public trailhead dedicated to Provo City
   that meets the following requirements:

        (i) The public trailhead shall have a parking lot with a minimum of ten (10) off-street parking
        spaces.

        (ii) The parking lot shall be designed in accordance with Chapter 14.37, Provo City Code.

   (d) No development may obtain a density bonus greater than ten percent (10%) for dedicating a trail(s)
   and/or trailhead(s).

   (e) In calculating the density bonus, the resulting number shall be rounded to the nearest whole number,
   but in no case less than one (1).

(2) A trail dedicated to the City shall meet the following requirements:

   (a) The trail must be constructed according to the applicable Provo City Public Works and Parks and
   Recreation Department standards;

   (b) The dedicated trail right-of-way is a minimum of 20 feet;
   (c) The trail improvements and right-of-way must be dedicated to the City prior to issuance of any
   building permits within the development; and

   (d) Such trail, or portion thereof, shall be part of a planned City trail system.

(3) After having received the opinion of the Parks and Recreation Department Director , Development
Services Director, and the City Engineer regarding the benefit and feasibility of a proffered trail dedication,
the Mayor may reject a proffered trail dedication, if it makes any one or more of the following findings
regarding the proffered dedication:

   (a) Trail maintenance is not feasible.

   (b) The trail dedication length is less than 660 feet.

   (c) A natural hazard, or the susceptibility to a natural hazard, including, but not limited to slope, cliff,
   rock fall, or landslide, cannot reasonably be mitigated to safely operate a trail for public use, as per the
   opinion of the City Engineer.

(4) Legally established public accesses or legally established public rights-of-way shall not be included
within the limits of disturbance (LOD) of any development or lot. Legally established public accesses and
recorded rights-of-way shall be located and identified on recorded development plats and approved
development plans.

14.33A.150                 Fences.

   The following fencing requirements apply in the CH Zone: (a) All fencing outside the designated LOD
   of a parcel or lot, as well as fencing in front yards and along roadways, shall be non-sight-obscuring
   fencing and have a maximum height of five (5) feet; however, livestock fencing may have a maximum
   height of six (6) feet.

   (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection (a), the clear vision area requirements of Section
   14.34.100 of the Provo City Code shall be met.

   (c) See Section 14.33A.210 of the Provo City Code for design standards for fencing.


14.33A.160                 Tree and Vegetation Protection.

(1) Tree/Vegetation Removal

   (a) No trees or vegetation may be removed outside the approved LOD unless specifically exempted by
   this Chapter.

   (b) Significant trees removed from within the LOD shall be replaced as set forth in this Chapter.

   (c) No trees or vegetation may be removed solely for the purpose of providing open views to or from
   structures on a site or solely for the purpose of replacing them with different species.
   (d) Appropriate defensible space surrounding a structure is established in the Utah Wildland-Urban
   Interface Code (WUI). In order to account for trees that must be removed to comply with the applicable
   requirements of the WUI, the applicant shall submit a copy of the approved fire protection plan, along
   with development plans that incorporate the approved fire protection plan, to the Development Services
   Director for review.

   (e) The following is a list of additional situations when tree and vegetation removal is permitted:

        (i)    The removal of invasive, dead, or naturally fallen trees or vegetation to protect public
               health, safety, and welfare.

        (ii)   (ii) The selective and limited removal of trees or vegetation necessary to obtain clear
               visibility at driveways or intersections, to install utilities, to perform authorized field survey
               work, or to protect structures from fire consistent with the Utah Wildland-Urban Interface
               Code.

(2) Replacement of Significant Trees

   (a) When a significant tree is removed from inside the established LOD, which removal is not required
   by WUI standards, the developer shall replace such tree(s) on the lot, according to the following
   schedule and requirements:

       (i) A significant tree that is removed shall be replaced by two (2) trees with a minimum size of two
       (2) inch caliper for deciduous trees and a minimum height of six (6) feet for coniferous trees in
       locations on the lot, as set forth in the required revegetation, tree Reestablishment, and land
       reclamation plan.

       (ii) Replacement trees shall be maintained through an establishment period of at least two (2) years.
       The applicant shall post a bond in the amount of ten percent (10%) of the value of all replacement
       trees guaranteeing their health and survival during the establishment period.

   (b) If the remainder of the lot outside the approved LOD is heavily wooded, defined as areas of trees
   with canopies that cover eighty percent (80%) of the area, and is not suitable to the planting of
   replacement trees, the requirement to plant replacement trees requirement may be waived by the
   Development Services Director.

(3) Revegetation, Tree Reestablishment, and Land Reclamation Plan

   (a) A revegetation, tree reestablishment, and land reclamation plan shall be submitted for any lot or
   parcel of land that will be altered from its natural condition. This plan must be stamped by an engineer
   and landscape architect licensed in the State of Utah. The plan shall incorporate and be in harmony with
   the approved fire protection plan, and shall establish a timeframe for revegetation that is acceptable to
   the City, and take into account optimal seasonal growing conditions.

   (b) The revegetation, tree reestablishment, and land reclamation plan shall contain the following:

       (i) Scale and north arrow;
       (ii) Location and dimensions of the property;

       (iii) Type, size, number, and location of any vegetation and trees to be planted;

       (iv) Demonstration that all new trees are spaced no closer than twenty feet on center;

       (v) Illustration of how the site will be re-contoured with sufficient topsoil to ensure that vegetation
       is successful;

       (vi) Incorporation of applicable information from the approved fire protection plan;

       (vii) A note that establishes a timeframe for revegetation that is acceptable to the City and that takes
       into account optimal seasonal growing conditions;

       (viii) A note detailing compliance with the Vegetation Clearance Guidelines of the Wildland-Urban
       Interface Code and confirming that all new trees are on the Utah Fire Resistive Species list in the
       Wildland-Urban Interface Code;

       (ix) Irrigation plan to demonstrate water-wise irrigation of the revegetated, reestablished, or
       reclaimed area; and

       (x) Any other information necessary to show compliance with this Subsection (3).

   (c) All disturbed areas shall be re-vegetated using native or water-wise adapted plant species and
   materials characteristic of the disturbed area; however, this requirement shall not preclude a property
   owner from establishing non-native or non-water-wise adapted plant species within: (1) a five [5] foot
   wide perimeter around the edge of all structures and (2) planting beds located not more than thirty (30)
   feet from the main building(s).

   (d) Any slope exposed or created in the development process shall be landscaped or revegetated with
   dryland trees and plant material. New vegetation shall be equivalent to or exceed the amount and
   erosion-control characteristics of the original vegetation cover in order to mitigate adverse
   environmental and visual effects.

   (e) On human-made slopes of twenty-five percent (25%) or greater, created or disturbed through the
   applicant’s development activities, plant materials with deep rooting characteristics shall be utilized to
   minimize erosion and reduce surface runoff. The planting basin shall be kept level with a raised berm
   around the base of the plant to help retain moisture.

   (f) Topsoil that is removed during construction may be conserved for later use on areas requiring
   revegetation or landscaping, such as cut-and-fill slopes.

   (g) Tree cutting for utility corridors shall be minimized to reduce visual impacts. All disturbed areas
   shall be re-vegetated in accordance with the provisions of this Subsection (3).

   (h) A performance bond, as per the provisions of Title 15 of the Provo City Code, for improvements
   related to the revegetation, tree reestablishment, and land reclamation plan shall be submitted and
   remain in place until all work has been completed and final inspection made.

(4) Tree and Vegetation Protection
   (a) Prior to any development activities, the applicant shall submit a tree and vegetation protection plan.
   This plan must be stamped by an engineer and landscape architect licensed in the State of Utah and
   incorporated into the approved, final development plans. The tree and vegetation protection plan shall
   contain the following:

       (i) Scale and north arrow

       (ii) Location and dimensions of the property;

       (ii) Limits of disturbance (LOD);

       (iii) Fencing or other separation methods to delineate the LOD;

       (iv) Location and size of all existing vegetation, including trees;

       (v) Identification of vegetation and trees to be retained;

       (vi) Fencing around each significant tree and around stands of trees;

       (vii) A note detailing the measures that shall be taken to ensure that protected vegetation will be
       guarded against grading, soil compaction, trenching, or other development activity that could have
       an adverse effect on such vegetation; and

       (viii) Any other information necessary to show compliance with this Subsection (4).

   (b) Fencing—at the edge of the individual or outermost (if a stand of trees) tree's drip zone—shall be
   placed around each significant tree (that will not be removed) and around stands of twelve or more
   smaller trees.

   (c) No construction, grading, equipment or material storage, or any other activity is allowed within the
   drip zone of protected trees, and the fencing must remain in place until all land alteration, construction,
   and development activities are completed.


14.33A.170                Sensitive Lands.

By way of reference, and not incorporation, the applicable Sensitive Lands requirements of Chapter 15.05 of
the Provo City Code, including those related to geological and natural hazards, shall be met.


14.33A.180                Stream Corridor and Wetland Protection.

(1) No development activity may be conducted that disturbs, removes, fills, dredges, clears, destroys, or
alters, stream corridors or wetlands, including vegetation, except for restoration and maintenance activities
allowed by the Provo City Code, and applicable state or federal law.
(2) Stream corridor and wetland area delineation shall be performed by an engineer licensed in the State of
Utah who has demonstrated experience and expertise to conduct the required site analysis, following, or
operating in accordance with any applicable, current federal manuals, requirements, and laws.

(3) The following setback requirements apply:

   (a) All buildings, structures, and parking lots shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet horizontally from the
   ordinary high-water mark of stream corridors. (See Figure 14.33A.9: Setback from Stream Corridor--
   Permitted and Figure 14.33A.10: Setback from Stream Corridor—Not Permitted).


                                             Figure 14.33A.10




                     (This dwelling is setback more than fifty [50] feet horizontally
                       from the ordinary high-water mark of a stream corridor.)


                                             Figure 14.33A.11




                   (This dwelling is not setback more than fifty [50] feet horizontally
                        from the ordinary high-water mark of a stream corridor.)
   (b) All buildings, structures, and parking lots shall be set back at least fifty (50) feet horizontally from
   the delineated edge of a wetland.


14.33A.190                Traffic Requirements.

Development in the CH Zone is subject to the traffic study requirements of Chapter 15.03 of the Provo City
Code.


14.33A.200                Parking Requirements.

(1) Outdoor parking facilities shall provide adequate snow storage areas, as set forth below:

   (a) A snow storage area shall have an area that is at least twenty percent (20%) of the area of the
   outdoor parking facility.

   (b) A snow storage area shall be sited in a manner that is accessible and usable for snowplow
   equipment.

   (c) Snow storage shall not encumber required parking spaces or encroach into sidewalk or pedestrian
   pathways.

   (d) Snow storage areas shall be clearly visible and identifiable in winter conditions.

   (e) Snow storage areas shall not be located on top of storm drain inlets.

(2) Development in the CH Zone is subject to the parking requirements of Chapter 14.37 of the Provo City
Code.

(3) See Section 14.33A.210 of the Provo City Code for design standards for parking.


14.33A.210                Design Standards.

(1) In the event that the design standards of this Section conflict with the other design standards and
guidelines of Title 14 or Title 15, Provo City Code, the standards of this Section shall take precedence.

(2) Buildings
    The following design standards apply for new buildings proposed in the CH Zone:
(a) Buildings shall be designed to follow natural contours rather than modifying the land to accept a
building design not tailored to the site. (See Figure 14.33A.11: Buildings to Follow Natural Contours—
Permitted and Figure 14.33A.12: Buildings to Follow Natural Contours—Not Permitted).

                                        Figure 14.33A.12




                 (This home was sited to follow the natural contour of the land.)




                                        Figure 14.33A.13




          (This land was modified to accept a building design not tailored for the site.)


(b) Building designs that require a strong structural statement, such as extensive cantilevers or cuts and
fills, are prohibited on slopes that are greater than thirty percent (30%).

(c) The massing or grouping of buildings shall be scaled to harmonize and achieve balance with the
natural features of the specific site.
   (d) Roof lines and building mass shall echo the angles and shapes repeated in the natural landscape.

   (e) Building mass and wall lines shall be broken up to complement natural settings and slopes.

   (f) The use of building materials in colors that blend harmoniously with the surrounding natural settings
   is required. Brash, contrasting color combinations are prohibited.

   (g) Flammable wood roofing shingles are prohibited.

(3) Landscaping
The following landscaping design standards apply in relation to permit applications for new main buildings
and new developments proposed in the CH Zone:

   (a) Landscaping shall incorporate natural features such as trees, significant vegetative patterns,
   interesting landforms, rocks, water, views, and orientation. (See Figure 14.33A.13: Incorporation of
   Natural Features into Landscaping—Permitted and Figure 14.33A.14: Incorporation of Natural Features
   into Landscaping—Not Permitted).

                                           Figure 14.33A.14




            (The landscaping of this property incorporates natural features and landforms.)
                                           Figure 14.33A.15




              (Besides the trees in the background, the natural features that once existed
            on this property were cleared away and not incorporated into the landscaping.)

   (b) All disturbed areas shall be re-vegetated using native or water-wise adapted plant species and
   materials characteristic of the disturbed area; however, this requirement shall not preclude a property
   owner from establishing non-native or non-water-wise adapted plant species within: (1) a five [5] foot
   wide perimeter around the edge of all structures and (2) planting beds located not more than thirty (30)
   feet from the main building(s).

(4) Fencing
The following fencing design standards apply in the CH Zone:

   (a) Fencing used to screen patios, other outdoor areas, and service areas within the LOD may be
   composed of the following fencing materials:
       (i) Natural or stained wood;
       (ii) Brick;
       (iii) Rock;
       (iv) Stone;
       (v) Pre-cast fences or walls textured and colored to imitate any of the above materials;
       (vi) Wrought iron;
       (vii) Vinyl rail;
       (viii) Rammed earth; and
       (ix) Powder or dull coat chain link fencing (permitted only for telecommunications facilities, public
       utility compounds, and other related or similar facilities).

    (b) The following fencing materials are prohibited in the CH Zone:
       (i) Solid board;
       (ii) Concrete or concrete block;
       (iii) Plywood; and
       (iv) Painted materials.
(5) Parking
The following parking design standards apply in the CH Zone:

   (a) When visible from public streets and private development roads, parking facilities shall be screened
   to blend into the natural environment. (See Figure 14.33A.15: Screening Parking Facilities--Permitted
   and Figure 14.33A.16: Screening Parking Facilities—Not Permitted).

                                              Figure 14.33A.16




                       (This parking lot was screened with trees and vegetation
                          and is compatible with the natural environment.)


                                          Figure 14.33A.17




                     (This parking lot was not screened with trees and vegetation
                          and does not blend into the natural environment.)
(6) Utility Infrastructure

   (a) In so far as possible, utility infrastructure, including water tanks, shall be screened, from public
   rights-of-way, or designed to blend into the natural environment. However, such screening or design (to
   blend into the natural environment) shall not compromise maintenance access to such facilities.

   (b) Insofar as possible, above-grade utility poles, if allowed by other provisions of this Code, shall not
   be sited, or left after the completion of development activities, on small, elevated mounds of earth or
   other materials, but shall be sited such that the bottom of the utility poles (portion of poles that intersect
   land) are generally located on the same grade (no more than a five [5] foot deviation in elevation) as the
   surrounding land in every direction for a distance of at least twenty-five (25) feet. (See Figure
   14.33A.17: Above-grade Utility Poles—Not Permitted).

                                                 Figure 14.33A.18




                              (Above-grade utility pole located on earth mound and
                                  not on the same grade as surrounding land.)


(7) See Section 14.33A.220, Provo City Code, for design standards applicable to cluster developments.


14.33A.220         Cluster Developments.

(1) The Planning Commission may approve a request for the clustering of a proposed development in the
CH Zone, as set forth herein, if all of the following standards are met:

    (a) The applicant shall submit a report that has been stamped by an engineer and landscape architect
    licensed in Utah that attests the clustering proposal will have no adverse impact on adjacent properties,
    or, if such impacts are anticipated, such report will detail these impacts and recommend mitigation
    measures, such as landscape, screening, illumination standards, and other design features. If impacts are
    anticipated, as set forth in the above-mentioned report, the applicant shall enter into an agreement with
    the City to implement and maintain appropriate mitigation measures, approved by the City Engineer, to
    buffer and protect adjacent properties from the proposed clustered development. The developer’s Utah
    licensed engineer and landscape architect shall verify that the recommended mitigation measures have
    been incorporated into the development. The responsibility—through-out the development process—
    for verifying mitigation measures shall be the responsibility of the developer’s Utah licensed engineer
    and landscape architect;

    (b) The Planning Commission, based upon the findings of a report submitted by the applicant and
    stamped by an engineer and landscape architect licensed in the State of Utah, finds that the clustering
    proposal, compared with a conventional development, better attains the policies and objectives of the
    CH Zone, such as providing more natural open space, preserving existing trees and vegetation
    coverage, and preserving sensitive environmental areas such as stream corridors, geological sensitive
    areas, prominent ridgelines, wetlands, and steep slopes;

    (c) The Design Review Committee issues an opinion that the architecture, height, building materials,
    building colors, and other design features of the development blend with the surrounding natural
    landscape and are compatible with adjacent properties or development; and

(2) To encourage the clustering of development, a density bonus is provided, as follows:

   (a) In the A1 zones (except for the A1.1 Zone), a cluster density bonus of fifty percent (50%) over the
   base density is permitted for those developments that satisfy the standards in Subsection (1).

   (b) In the A1.1 Zone, R1 zones, R2 Zone, and RA Zone, a cluster density bonus of twenty-five percent
   (25%) over the base density is permitted for those developments that satisfy the standards in Subsection
   (1).

   (c) The allowable density bonus for a cluster development shall be calculated based on "net developable
   acreage." Such resulting number shall be rounded to the nearest whole number, but in no case less than
   one (1).

(3) Cluster developments shall meet the following design standards and applicants for such shall provide
the written opinion of a landscape architect and/or engineer licensed in the State of Utah that the following
design standards have been met:

   (a) The undeveloped area of the development site shall be preserved as active or passive natural open
   space. Natural open space areas shall provide contiguity with adjacent natural open space and/or
   conservation areas; protect unique natural, historical, or cultural site features and resources; avoid
   fragmentation of open space areas within the site; and preserve existing, legal public access.

   (b) No more than thirty (30) lots are allowed in a single cluster. Each cluster shall be separated from
   other residential clusters by a minimum of one-hundred (100) feet.

   (c) The layout of a cluster development shall protect significant natural resources within the proposed
   development. Natural resources include riparian areas, wetlands, ecological resources, and steep slopes
   and ridgelines. The overall site design shall employ the site's natural topography to hide multiple
   residential clusters from the sight of adjacent clusters.

   (d) Cluster development shall preserve the following:

      (i) Open sky backdrop above those ridgelines designated for protection by the Planning
      Commission; and

      (ii) Significant views of the natural landscape as viewed from adjacent streets.

(3) Figure 14.33A.19: Development—Permitted.




           (This development was clustered and preserved significant areas of open space.)



(4) Figure 14.33A.20: Development—Not Permitted.




               (This development was not clustered; little open space exists in the area.)
14.33A.230         Other Requirements.

(1) Signs (see Chapter 14.38, Provo City Code).

(2) Landscaping. In addition to the landscaping requirements of this Chapter, development in the CH Zone
must meet the applicable requirements of Chapter 15.20 of the Provo City Code, as well as any landscaping
requirements of the underlying zone.

(3) Trash Storage (see Section 14.34.080, Provo City Code).

(4) Lighting. Streetlights shall be hooded and direct light to the ground to alleviate light emanation into
sensitive areas. Light poles shall be no higher than twenty (20) feet.
