                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 25, 2020

 ITEM 5     Rob Slater requests Concept Plan approval for three single-family homes on .34 acres, located at 164 S 400 W in
            a proposed Low Density Residential (LDR) zone. Franklin Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404
            aardmore@provo.org PLCP20200043




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
25, 2020:


                                                   APPROVED
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Maria Winden
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Laurie Urquiaga, Deborah Jensen, Lisa Jensen, Maria Winden, Russell Phillips
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission recommended approval on the related zone change as item #4, file #PLRZ20200041.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
- Three Single-Family, Detached Units

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
- 10 Parking Spaces

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following: Staff gave an overview of the proposal, including the public purpose of the zone change and the ability for the
concept to meet the zoning codes of the LDR zone.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 03/04/2020. The project was well received by those in attendance.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.
• Dennis Snow stated that the property should provide one or two homes at most, but not three.
• Dave Horn stated he liked the plans, but would prefer only two units on the property.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
- The applicant stated his reasons for the proposal; to improve the neighborhood and provide more housing.
- Open spaces will be common areas, without fences.
- He hopes for owner-occupied, family residents for the dwellings. Because the homes will have unfinished basements
   there will be room for a family to grow and not have to move.
- Parking will be for individual units.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
 - The planning commission liked the proposal and thought it was good infill development that was context sensitive
    and scaled for the neighborhood. The commission asked questions about building height, parking for each unit,
    whether the existing home was historically protected, and if the elevations could change. PC verified that the project
    will still need to apply for final project plan and subdivision applications and that owner-occupancy could not be
    enforced by zoning code. They also verified with the applicant that trees and shrubs will try to be protected/provided.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community Development Department, 330
    West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
