                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                     August 26, 2020


ITEM 5         Robert Steele requests Preliminary Subdivision approval for a one-lot subdivision in a proposed R1.10 zone,
               located at approximately 1487 W 990 S. Sunset Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404
               aardmore@provo.org PLPSUB20200210



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of August
26, 2020:


                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
   1. That all remaining CRC concerns be addressed.
   2. That the road and utility improvements on 990 South be built to property edge of the proposed lot prior to recording
       of the plat.

Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Ally Jones
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Ally Jones, Deborah Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Brian Henrie,
Russell Phillips, Robert Knudsen
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


 RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also recommended approval on a zone change for the property (Item 4, PLRZ20200209).


 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Staff gave on overview of the request and reasons for approval and conditions.


 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The applicant stated that he does not have a timeline for completing the subdivision.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commission asked questions of the applicant and staff regarding timing of the subdivision, the road access and
       standards, and zoning designations.
   • The Commission stated that the R1.10 zone makes sense for the area and the plan meets the goals of the Southwest
       Future Land Use Plan.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
