                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      May 25, 2022


 ITEM #4*       The Development Services Department requests to amend the Downtown Design Standards (14.34.295)
                and Interim Transit Oriented Development Zone (14.23) of the Provo City Code relating to design
                standards. Citywide application. Javin Weaver (801) 852-6413 jweaver@provo.org PLOTA20220153



 The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of May
 25, 2022:


                                     RECOMMEND APPROVAL
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application
 with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval: Staff refine the Airport Adjacent Design Standards to consider the land uses.

 Motion By: Dave Anderson
 Second By: Lisa Jensen
 Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, and Melissa
 Kendall

 Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.
 •    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
      Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendments is attached as Exhibit A, and Exhibit B

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
    • Staff explained this revision is to provide clarity and to align with other design standards within the code.
    • Staff explained the revision to the Interim Transit Oriented Development (ITOD) Zone (14.23).




                                                        Page 1 of 6
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• There was no neighborhood chair or public comment made.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Lisa inquired about the reasoning for removal of the glass requirement and asked if the commissioners had an
       issue with this change.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 6
 EXHIBIT A

14.34.295
Downtown Development Design Standards.

(1) Purpose and Intent. This Section establishes design standards that are intended to improve the quality and
compatibility of new development. These standards address building form, mass and scale, building materials,
and compatible additions. They are intended to provide design standards for project applicants, staff, the
Design Review Committee and the general public.

(2) Applicability. In addition to the requirements of 14.34.280 – Design Review and 14.34.285 – Residential
Design Standards and Guidelines, the following design standards set forth in this Section shall apply in the
DT1, DT2, GW, WG and ITOD zones: to all buildings and uses located in the General Downtown (DT1),
Downtown Core (DT2), Downtown Gateway (GW), West Gateway (WG), and Interim Transit Oriented
Development (ITOD) zones.

    (a) In approving a project plan, the approving authority may impose reasonable conditions consistent
    with the purpose and intent of this Section. The requirements for this Section shall apply in addition to
    other applicable requirements of this Title. This Section shall be interpreted to supersede other
    requirements of the Provo City Code which may impose more restrictive requirements.

    (b) All of the requirements of this Section shall apply, unless the Planning Commission approves an
    alternative design arrangement that imposes requirements equivalent to or more restrictive than the
    requirements set forth in this section.

(13) Pedestrian Building Entrances.

       (a) A minimum of one (1) pedestrian entrance to a commercial space, lobby, or residential unit shall be
       provided for every fifty (50) feet of building frontage along primary streets and one hundred (100) feet
       on secondary streets. Properties located in the Downtown Gateway (GW) and West Gateway (WG)
       zones must provide a minimum of one (1) pedestrian entrance to a commercial space, lobby, or
       residential unit for every one hundred (100) feet of street frontage. All properties with frontage on
       Center Street in the GW and WG zones must provide a pedestrian entrance that fronts Center Street.

(4) Building Facades.

       (a) Ground Floor Treatment




                                                   Page 3 of 6
                (i) Commercial Ground Floors. (2) Each first floor commercial frontage situated along a primary
                street shall provide a minimum of forty per cent (40%) completely transparent glass and on
                secondary streets thirty (30%) completely transparent glass.

                (ii) Residential Ground Floors. Ground floor residential buildings shall provide twenty (20%)
                completely transparent glass on any street.

(5) Building Form, Mass and Scale.

    (a) The facade of any multiple-family, apartment, or mixed-use structure shall:

         (i) Be articulated in the horizontal plane to provide visual interest and enrich the pedestrian
         experience, while contributing to the quality and definition of the street wall;

         (ii) Be vertically articulated to differentiate the ground floor facade, and feature high quality
         materials that add human scale, texture and variety at the pedestrian level;

         (iii) Provide an identifiable break between the building’s ground floors and upper floors. This break
         may be accomplished by a change in material, a horizontal dividing element, a change in fenestration
         pattern, or similar means;

         (iv) Be vertically articulated at the street wall facade, establishing different treatment for the
         building’s base, middle and top. Balconies, fenestration, shading devices, or other elements shall be
         used to create an interesting pattern of projections and recesses;

         (v) Avoid extensive blank walls that detract from the experience and appearance of an active
         streetscape; and

         (vi) Provide well marked entrances to cue access and use. All public entrances to a building or use
         shall be enhanced through compatible architectural or graphic treatment.

    (b) Exterior stairways, corridors, or landings shall not be located on the front or street side elevation of
    the building.

    (c) Building additions shall not strongly alter the character of the original building.

    (d) Windows, materials and doors shall be compatible with those of the original building.

    (e) Roof forms shall be compatible with the existing structure.

(6) Building Materials.

                                                     Page 4 of 6
       (a) Intent. The intent of the facade materials standards of this Section is to:

               (i) Provide minimum material standards to ensure use of well tested, high quality, durable
               surfaces, while permitting a wider range of materials for details; and

               (ii) Encourage a high level of detail from smaller scaled, less monolithic materials in order to
               relate facades to pedestrians, especially at the ground level.

       (b) Prohibited Exterior Materials. The exterior finish material on all buildings shall not consist of vinyl or
metal siding (including sheet or corrugated metal), plywood, particle board or other wood products not
intended as an architectural finish product, or manufactured stone.

       (c) Limited Exterior Materials. The following finishes may not be used on more than twenty (20) percent
       of each exterior façade face.

             (i) Cement-based stucco;

             (ii) Face-sealed EIFS synthetic stucco assemblies and decorative architectural elements; and

             (iii) Synthetic stucco.

(75) Windows and Doors.

       (a) All windows and doors, with the exception of ground level shop fronts, shall be square or vertical in
       proportion.

       (b) (6) Doors and windows that operate as sliders are prohibited on street frontages and facades.

(87) Roofs. Pitched roofs, if provided, shall be symmetrically sloped no less than 5:12 on all elevations facing a
public street. Pitched roofs for residential porches and attached sheds may be no less than 2:12. This
provision should not be construed to prohibit flat roof designs.

(8) Glass, windows and doors above the first story shall not exceed 50 percent of the total building wall area,
with each facade being calculated independently.

(9) Balconies. Balconies consisting of a minimum area of fifty (50) square feet shall be provided for a minimum
of fifty (50) percent of all residential units. Balconies may be inset into the building or may project into the
street right-of-way a maximum of five (5) feet so long as ten (10) feet of vertical clearance is provided between
the sidewalk and the balcony. Balconies facing a side or rear yard shall maintain a distance of at least eight
feet from the face of the balcony to the adjacent property line. Storage on balconies is limited to items such as
tables, chairs, barbecue grills, and similar outdoor furniture. All new projects with residential units shall be
                                                     Page 5 of 6
required, as a condition of approval, to include language in their CC&Rs that restricts storage on balconies to
acceptable items.

(10) Railroad Right-of-Way. All new buildings that are located within one hundred (100) feet of a railroad right-
of-way shall include sound and vibration attenuating design and materials. Permit applicants shall provide
documentation from an acoustical engineer or from the materials manufacturer that “best practices” for
sound and vibration attenuation have been incorporated.

(11) Mechanical Screening. Mechanical equipment shall have an opaque screening barrier that is
architecturally compatible with the primary structure. Only the minimal amount of screening necessary to fully
screen such equipment shall be used.




EXHIBIT B

                                              Chapter 14.23
                    INTERIM TRANSIT ORIENTED DEVELOPMENT ZONE

Sections:
  ...
  14.23.155    Explanatory GraphicsDesign Standards.
  ...



14.23.155
Explanatory GraphicsDesign Standards.

(1) Design standards detailed in Section See section 14.34.295 – Downtown Development Design Standards,
shall apply to the ITOD zone.

(2) The standards set forth in Section 14.34.300 – Transitional Development Standards, shall not apply in the
ITOD zone.


...


                                                   Page 6 of 6
