                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 25, 2023

 ITEM 2     Garrett Seely requests Preliminary Subdivision approval for a 58-unit single family and twin home
            development on 16.9 acres in a proposed R1.8PD (One-Family Residential - Performance Development)
            Zone, located approximately at 1069 N Geneva Road. Lakeview North neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801)
            852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPSUB20230147

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 25, 2023:
                                                   APPROVED
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Andrew South
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Andrew South, Daniel Gonzales, Barbara SeSoto, Robert Knudsen, Jonathon Hill
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also recommended approval (with concerns noted) on a related zone change at the October
 25th hearing (PLRZ20230104, Item #3)

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*58 Total Units
*Type of occupancy approved: Family
*Standard Land Use Code 1112, 1111

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff noted changes from the staff report on the concept plan for 58 total units on 16.9 acres of land.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 07/20/2023.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
                                                        Page 1 of 3
the public hearing included the following:
    • Deann Torsak emailed concerns with the site being dirty during construction, increased traffic as a result of the
        development, and the compatibility of twin homes in the neighborhood.
    • Shantel Bjornn emailed concerns about the population growth, ability for the schools to handle additional
        students, increased density in the neighborhood, and the safety of surrounding streets. She also wondered if
        someone could come back later and add additional units.
    • Jesse Ryan McAdam sent an email stating concerns about increased traffic, access to amenities, and impact on
        property values. He also shared his concerns for losing scenic open lands in his comments during the hearing.
    • Joel Williams shared his concern about the groundwater on the site and increased traffic, and feared losing open
        natural lands and the wildlife they bring.
    • Karen Weight (the current property owner) stated that growth happens, and she had the same concerns for
        development over the last forty years on the westside, but knows it is inevitable and wants to make sure it develops
        in a positive way.
    • Tiffany Williams loves the concept, stating that it is a happy medium; but still has some concerns about traffic.
    • Jon Senior hoped that the city could buy the open space in the plan.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Garrett Seely added that he hoped to be creative in developing the property but not overly densify in the
       neighborhood. He also responded to questions about the natural spring and confirmed that engineering would take
       necessary actions to ensure it does not affect the homes.
   • Andy Flamm responded to questions about plans for owner-occupancy, that he did not have plans since he isn’t
       the builder. He also stated that UDOT will control access to Geneva Road, but that their layout has provided the
       best scenario for a future connection.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioner Jensen asked about what guarantees the city has for the HOA to continue maintenance of the open
       areas over the years. Staff responded that it is also in a Development Agreement proffered by the applicant. She
       also confirmed that the plan complies with the General Plan and Southwest Neighborhoods Plan.
   • The Commission discussed the powerline corridor and flood risks associated with the property and surrounding
       area. They also asked the applicant what maintenance would be done in the wetland areas. Mr. Seely stated he
       would make sure that the growth is kept down for view corridors and safety.
   • The Commission confirmed with staff that the open areas will stay open and that no additional units would be
       able to be built there in the future. They also asked about the ability to work with the property to the north.
   • There was some discussion about the natural spring in the middle of the development, how active it has been in
       recent years, and what dangers it could pose to the surrounding homes.
   • During discussion on the road network and ability to connect to Geneva Road the commission showed support
       for the connection that the applicant has provided space for, and that it would require UDOT consultation.
   • The commission appreciated the design, ability to keep open areas, and provide a different housing type.
   • There was a lot of concern for this development becoming a rental community, the commission voted 6:0 to
       forward a concern on owner-occupancy to the City Council with the rezone application.
   • The commission also voted 6:0 to forward a concern to the City Council to address the natural spring.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

                                                        Page 2 of 3
See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center St., Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
   office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
