                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    January 25, 2023


*ITEM 2        David Cabanilla requests Ordinance Text Amendments to Section 14.21A.080 (Transitional
               Development Standards) in the DT1 (General Downtown) zone standards. Citywide Application. Dustin
               Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLOTA20220402


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
January 25, 2023:


                                     RECOMMENDED DENIAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council deny the above noted application.


Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Andrew South, Jeff Whitlock
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit B.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• Nobody from the public commented on this item.

                                                        Page 1 of 3
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The applicant stated that there are three areas in the downtown area that would be affected by the proposed
   amendment.
• The city has neighborhood plans that show what areas are desired to be and this change would not affect them.
• The applicant is interested in developing a property that this amendment would help maximize the potential and views
   of that development.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• The Commission asked about a variance instead of changing the code.
• The transitional standards are there for an important reason and should be followed. These standards should not be
   changed just to help increase the financial return on the development investment.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 West Center St., Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
Exhibit B




  Page 3 of 3
