                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   September 27, 2023

 Item 5   David Peterson requests Concept Plan Approval for a new 129-unit apartment building in the ITOD (Interim
          Transit Oriented Development Zone) zone, located at 156 W. 500 S. Downtown Neighborhood. Dustin Wright
          (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLCP20230159

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 27, 2023:
                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
   1. The rezone to the ITOD Zone, along with a development agreement, is approved by City Council.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew South, Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen, Raleen Wahlin, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales,
Barbara DeSoto, Jonathan Hill, Melissa Kendall
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.
 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.
RELATED ACTIONS
 September 27, 2023 Planning Commission Item 6, rezone application PLRZ20230158

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
*129 Total Units
*Type of occupancy approved: Family
*Standard Land Use Code 1150

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*151 Total parking stalls required that includes the 25% reduction allowance in ITOD zone.
*160 Total parking stalls provided (9 more than minimum required).

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • Applies – For the associated rezone.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

                                                        Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• The public did not address the Planning Commission during the public hearing.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The neighborhood meeting was well attended with about 20-30 people.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• 500 South would be where the ingress and egress for the development would occur. There are also pedestrian
   entrances at the street level. This is sufficient for this project.
• The downtown streetscape standards will apply for this project and will be addressed with the project plan application.
• The building encompasses the majority of the property.
• Blocks in the zone are not required to be broken up by access points.
• This project meets the parking requirements and is not asking for parking reductions.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
   City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
