                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   September 27, 2023

 ITEM 3     James Chapman requests Project Plan approval for a 195-unit townhome development in the MDR (Medium
            Density Residential) zone, located at 5544 N River Run Drive. Riverbottoms Neighborhood. Aaron
            Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPPA20230059

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 27, 2023:

                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:
     1. That all remaining CRC comments be addressed.
     2. That a Final Plat is recorded prior to permits.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Lisa Jensen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew South, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Robert Knudsen, Raleen Wahlin, Jeff Whitlock,
Barbara DeSoto, Jonathon Hill, Melissa Kendall
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
195 Total Units
Type of occupancy approved: Family
Standard Land Use Code: 1112

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
526 Total parking stalls required.
538 Total parking stalls provided.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff updated the Commission on changes from the staff report.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 02/03/2022.



                                                        Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • An email from Sharon Memmott shared concerns regarding pedestrian and vehicle access through the site.
    • Ronald Whooley (neighboring business) wanted to make sure that the path along the river would continue through
        the Orem pieces that the developer controls. He also wanted to confirm that the units will be rentals.
    • Kurt Reacher (Central Utah Water) shared his support for the project.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jason White (a partner in the project) confirmed that the future easement for 5600 North will be managed by the
       property owners if a road does get built. He also confirmed that the river pathway will continue.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission discussed a possible future connection to 5600 North, and how the project would deal
       with that change.
   • Commissioners confirmed with staff that vehicle access will be 5200 North in Provo and 800 North in Orem.
   • The amenities were shown to be more than the zone requirement.
   • The property doesn’t have any close residential neighbors to the project.
   • Commissioners confirmed that all of the units will be for rent.
   • Commissioners stated they like the architecture of the buildings and that the project will be a nice addition to the
       city.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
   City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS

                                                       Page 2 of 2
