                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                       July 26, 2023

 *ITEM #2     Ryan McCoard requests a Zone Map Amendment from the A1.10 (Agricultural) Zone to the AI (Airport
              Industrial) Zone in order to build warehouses on the property at 3155 W Center Street. Provo Bay
              Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6414 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20230166

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of July
26, 2023:
                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.
Motion By: Barbie DeSoto
Second By: Jeff Whitlock
Votes in Favor of Motion: Barbie DeSoto, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen, Andrew
South
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the AI Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The related concept plan was approved by the Planning Commission at the July 26th hearing (PLCP20230169).

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff also reminded the Commission that Center Street is a truck route and mostly a State street, so
it may be difficult to address some of the traffic concerns from the public.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 07/20/2023.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:


                                                        Page 1 of 3
    •   Sam Eyre (of Beehive Homes) related concerns about increased traffic, noise, and safety; and hoped that the plans
        will be able to mitigate these impacts.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Mr. McCoard related that he is hopeful of creating warehouse spaces to lease on the site, but wanted to make sure
       the zone change was achieved before developing more specific plans.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission clarified the area of the zone and what the potential uses could be on the site.
   • Commissioners confirmed with staff and the applicant that the details of the concept plan can and will change to
       meet the zone.
   • The Commission discussed how the proposal meets the General Plan and that the future Project Plans should be
       able to address any of the concerns.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
   Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
   City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 3
