                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                      May 13, 2020

Item 5*   Provo City Council Office requests a Zone Map Amendment to include multiple east bench properties in the
          Critical Hillside (CH) Overlay Zone. Citywide application. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org
          PLRZ20200078



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of May
13, 2020:

                                                 CONTINUED
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew Howard
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Maria Winden, Andrew Howard, Deborah Jensen, Dave Anderson, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa
Jensen, and Russ Phillips

Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following: Overview of revisions to the proposed CH Zone boundaries. Staff also noted that all portions of The Ranger
Station Subdivision, Plat “A,” should be removed from CH Zone boundaries.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
   • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
   • Paul Perry posed the following questions (1) Who selected the parcels in the overlay map? (2) What is the specific
     criteria used to select properties on the maps? (3) What is the definition of a developed property?

    •     Larry Henderson posed the following question: How would this help Provo?

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission would like to see the location of the proposed ridgelines for the CH Zone prior to
       offering their recommendation for the proposed CH Zone applications. The exclusion of The Ranger Station
       Subdivision, Plat “A” was also referenced.
                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Development Services Department, 330 West 100
South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours
are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
