                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      July 10, 2024


    ITEM 1      Miller General Contractors requests Project Plan Approval for a new warehouse project in the PIC
                (Planned Industrial Commercial) Zone, located at 2601 S Mountain Vista Pkwy. Spring Creek
                Neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414 dwright@provo.org PLPPA20240003


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of July
10, 2024:


                               APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

Conditions of Approval:
   1. Approval from the Design Review Committee is required.

Motion By: Barbara DeSoto
Second By: Melissa Kendall
Votes in Favor of Motion: Barbara DeSoto, Melissa Kendall, Adam Shin, Jonathon Hill, Jeff Whitlock
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
Design Review Committee hearing will be held on July 11, 2024.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
• Standard Land Use Code 6730 – Warehouse/manufacturing

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
• 129 Total parking stalls required
• 129 Total parking stalls provided (26 for office and 103 for warehouse)

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was not held.
• The Neighborhood District Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

                                                        Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
• No comments were made by the public.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• The units will be for purchase or lease.
• The southern building will be built first as part of the first phase of the project.
• The number of accesses was limited to three from public works.
• There is a need for this type of space in the market and this area is great for this area.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• This item has not been to the De+sign Review Committee yet but will be heard at the hearing the next day.
• The parking provided covers the office and warehouse space for both buildings on the property. The ratios are in the
   staff report.
• This project fits the area very well and this is a use that is needed and helpful in the community.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
