                                   Provo City Planning Commission
                                       Report of Action
                                              February 14, 2024

 *Item 1   Charles Matheny requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to Subsection 14.38.105(1)(e), Provo
           City Code, to change the number of allowable tenant wall signs from two (2) to three (3).
           Downtown Neighborhood. Mary Barnes (801) 852-6408 mabarnes@provo.org PLOTA20240014

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting
of February 14, 2024:
                              RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:1, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted
application.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales, Jonathan Hill, Barbara DeSoto, and Andrew South.
Votes against the Motion: Lisa Jensen
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

   •   Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report,
       with any changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff
       analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
   • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
   • This application affected the Downtown Zones. Neighborhood District 5 has requested that the applicant
     give a short presentation about the amendment in their upcoming meeting on March 20th. The applicant
     has agreed to attend this meeting.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
   • The neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the
     hearing.
   • This item does affect multiple neighborhoods.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment
during the public hearing included the following:
    • There were no comments from the public at the hearing.
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Charles Matheny addressed the commission, stating that this sign ordinance amendment is to help
       complete the signage theme for Harris Investment Group at 89 N University Ave.
   • The applicant wants to co-brand the building as the Wells Fargo and Harris Investment Group building.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioner Jensen was concerned about the existing number of signs on the building. Staff explained
       that the lower-level wall signs are governed by different wall sign designations within 14.38.105.
   • Commissioner Jensen brought up the following concerns:
           o An additional sign on 5 story+ buildings in the Downtown zones could clutter the building facade.
               If there are three different tenants in one building, having three different signs on the top levels
               could make an unattractive building façade.
           o The sign itself could be unattractive.
           o A building/property owner could designate a certain sign as a “building identification” sign
               (14.38.105 (1)(d)), and then have another two (or three) tenant identification signs on a 5 story+
               building.
   • Commissioner Gonzales was comfortable with the ordinance amendment, although increasing the
       number of signs on a building may not increase aesthetics.
   • Commissioner Hill stated that this is a relatively small change, and this is an area where he feels
       comfortable being flexible.




              Planning Commission Chair




           Director of Development Services


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the
   Staff Report to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the
   record of the decision of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff,
   those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following
   a public hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council
   following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed
  by submitting an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the
  Community and Neighborhood Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen
  (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through
  Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

               BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                                        Exhibit A
14.38.105 Signs Permitted in the Downtown (DT1, DT2, ITOD, GW, and WG) Zones.

Signs within the General Downtown (DT1), Downtown Core (DT2), Interim Transit Oriented Development (ITOD),
Gateway West (GW), and West Gateway (WG) zones shall be regulated by the following provisions. Any signs, or
types of sign, not expressly allowed by this Section are prohibited.

(1) Wall signs shall comply with the following requirements:

    (a) Ground level businesses with individual front door entrances fronting public streets.

          (i) Number. One (1) sign per business storefront.

          (ii) Area. Two (2) square feet of sign for each foot of linear building facade.

          (iii) Location. Sign shall be located on the first or second story facade.

          (iv) Projection. Signs shall not project more than eighteen (18) inches from the facade.

          (v) Illumination. Internal or external illumination is permitted. Externally lit signs shall be illuminated only
          with stationary, shielded light sources directed solely onto the sign without causing glare.

    (b)   Building directory signs:

          (i) May be located on an exterior wall next to a public entrance or within the common entrance of the
          building.

          (ii) If located on an exterior wall, such directory signs shall not exceed nine (9) square feet and copy shall
          not exceed one (1) inch in height.

          (iii) One (1) directory sign for each building facade with a public entrance is permitted.

    (c)   Building identification signs for buildings three (3) to four (4) stories in height:

          (i) Number. One (1) sign per building facade consisting of individual letters (signs shall not consist of sign
          cabinets). No building shall be deemed to have more than four (4) facades.

          (ii) Area. Two (2) square feet of sign for each linear foot of building facade.

          (iii) Location. Shall be located on the top story of the building.

          (iv) Projection. Sign shall not project greater than eighteen (18) inches from the facade.

          (v) Illumination. Internal or external illumination is permitted. Externally lit signs shall be illuminated only
          with stationary, shielded light sources directed solely onto the sign without causing glare.

          (vi) Size of Lettering. Letters are limited to two (2) feet in height.
(d)   Building identification signs for buildings greater than five (5) stories in height:

      (i) Number. One (1) per building facade consisting of individual letters (signs shall not consist of sign
      cabinets). No building shall be deemed to have more than four (4) facades.

      (ii) Area. Four (4) square feet of sign for each linear foot of building facade.

      (iii) Location. Shall be located on one of the top two (2) stories and not project above the wall line.

      (iv) Projection. Sign may not project greater than eighteen (18) inches from the facade.

      (v) Illumination. Internal or external illumination is permitted. Externally lit signs shall be illuminated only
      with stationary, shielded light sources directed solely onto the sign without causing glare.

      (vi) Size of Lettering. Letters shall not exceed four (4) feet in height.

(e) Tenant Identification Signs.

      (i) Number.

          (A) For buildings two (2) to four (4) stories in height: one (1) sign per building facade facing a public
          street.

          (B) For buildings five (5) stories or greater in height: two (2) three (3) signs per building facade facing
          a public street.

      (ii) Type. Signs shall consist of individual letters or logos (signs shall not consist of sign cabinets).

      (iii) Area. The sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet in area.

      (iv) Location. The sign shall be located on the story immediately below the building step-back, if present,
      on the second floor of a two (2) story building, or below the top floor of a building greater than two (2)
      stories in height.

      (v) Projection. Sign shall not project greater than eighteen (18) inches from the facade.

      (vi) Illumination. Internal and external illumination is permitted. Externally lit signs shall be illuminated only
      with stationary, shielded light sources directed solely onto the sign without causing glare.

      (vii) Size of Lettering. Letters shall not exceed three (3) feet in height.
