                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 08, 2023

 *ITEM 2     Development Services requests a General Plan amendment, inclusion of multiple appendices into the
             General Plan. City wide application. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408. Related to PLGPA20210364


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of March
8, 2023:

                                    RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted
 application.

Motion By: Daniel Gonzales
Second By: Raleen Wahlin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Raleen
Wahlin, and Andrew South

Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
      changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and
      determination.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • No public comment was received for this item.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 No neighborhood or district chairs spoke to this item. No members of the public commented on this item.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
    • Development Services staff explained that this item was proposed to include many of the appendices from the
        General Plan, which was recently replaced on January 17, 2023, into the new General Plan. There are a few
        appendices from the outgoing General Plan that are proposed to not be included because the information in
        them is outdated.

 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
    • Commissioner Kendell wanted to make sure staff included all applicable appendices. She asked about a
        Wasatch Neighborhood Plan. Staff explained that such a plan does not exist or is no longer effective. Staff
        assured her that if there are other appendices that staff becomes aware of they can go through a similar process,
        as this one, to include them as appendices.

                                                        Page 1 of 3
    •   Commissioner Gonzales recommended the Commission recommend approval of certain appendices being
        included with the 2023 General Plan, as set forth in “Exhibit A.” It was seconded by Commissioner Wahlin.
        The motion was approved 7-0.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                                   EXHIBIT A



The Planning Commission recommends approval to the Municipal Council to include the following appendices with the
2023 General Plan:

Appendix E: Parks & Recreation Master Plan
Appendix F: Transportation Master Plan
Appendix G: Wastewater Collection Master Plan
Appendix H: Water System Master Plan
Appendix I: Airport Master Plan
Appendix J: Village at Riverwoods SDP
Appendix K: Country Club Villas SDP
Appendix L: Residential Agricultural SDP
Appendix M: Rivers End SDP
Appendix N: Lakeview Fields SDP
Appendix O: Villages at Celebrations SDP
Appendix P: General Plan Amendments
Appendix Q: Bicycle Master Plan
Appendix R: Joaquin Neighborhood Plan
Appendix S: Downtown Master Plan
Appendix T: Franklin Neighborhood Plan
Appendix U: Southeast Neighborhoods Plan
Appendix V: Timp Neighborhood Plan
Appendix W: Maeser Neighborhood Plan
Appendix X: Southwest Neighborhoods Plan
Appendix Y: Downtown Streetscape Standards




                                                   Page 3 of 3
