                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 10, 2021


 *ITEM 1       The Development Services department, on behalf of the Sign Committee, requests an Ordinance Text
               Amendment to Chapter 6.06 and 14.38 of the Provo City Code to update use of electronic signs and
               standards for signs and outdoor advertising. Citywide Impact. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404
               aardmore@provo.org PLOTA20210046


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
10, 2021:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Deborah Jensen
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Deborah Jensen, Laurie Urquiaga, Russell Phillips, Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen, Daniel
Gonzales, Dave Anderson, Brian Henrie
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff gave an overview of the proposed language and answered Planning Commission questions
regarding sign regulations and issues.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.


                                                        Page 1 of 23
CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Jeff Young of YESCO signs shared his opinions on the proposals, stating he does not agree with the longer hold
        times proposed.
    • Paul Evans stated his concerns regarding signs on North University Avenue and referenced correspondence he
        had sent to the Planning Commission prior to the hearing.
    • James Carpentier shared his support for most of the proposed changes but does not agree with the longer hold
        times or the reasoning of safety for the changes.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Laurie Urquiaga asked about the map associated with the proposal, showing changes in permitted areas and multi-
       tenant areas. She thought the difference between long hold and short hold may be too much, but that fifteen second
       holds were appropriate.
   • The Commission asked about billboards as compared with on-premise signs and how the regulations differ.
   • Lisa Jensen asked about nonconforming rights with the proposal and if height limits were affected. She has
       concerns over proposed hold times and current brightness standards, she suggested a nighttime off standard for
       future discussions with the Council Sign Committee.
   • Brian Henrie stated hold times are not a concern for him, but that he would be interested on future changes to
       brightness standards.
   • Deborah Jensen stated her support for the changes and referenced the emails received from the public regarding
       concerns with bright signs. She also supports having “off hours” regulations come in the future. She related to the
       Commission that sign regulations are an important part of the City and attention to the visual impact needs to be
       a focus on future discussions and proposals.
   • The Planning Commission directed staff to look at brightness standards and other regulations that could address
       concerns of neighbors in future discussions with the Sign Committee.
   • The Planning Commission stated their support for Daniel Gonzales to serve on the Sign Committee to represent
       the Planning Commission in future discussions.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.




                                                      Page 2 of 23
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 23
Page 4 of 23
Page 5 of 23
Page 6 of 23
Page 7 of 23
Page 8 of 23
Page 9 of 23
Page 10 of 23
Page 11 of 23
Page 12 of 23
Page 13 of 23
Page 14 of 23
Page 15 of 23
Page 16 of 23
Page 17 of 23
Page 18 of 23
Page 19 of 23
Page 20 of 23
Page 21 of 23
Page 22 of 23
Page 23 of 23
