                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    August 14, 2024


 Item #4     Cal Johnson requests Project Plan approval for a redevelopment plan to demolish an existing
             commercial building and build a new multi-tenant commercial building in the CG (General
             Commercial) Zone, located at 1200 N University Ave. Carterville Neighborhood. Nancy Robison
             (801) 8526417 nrobison@provo.org PLPPA20230331



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
August 14, 2024:


                                                  APPROVED
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

Conditions of Approval:


Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Melissa Kendall
Votes in Favor of Motion: Barbara DeSoto, Melissa Kendall, Daniel Gonzales, Jonathon Hill, Lisa Jensen, Adam Shin.
Jonathon Hill was present as Chair.

     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
Standard Land Use Code 5811

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
67 Total parking stalls required
70 Total parking stalls provided


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.




                                                        Page 1 of 2
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
The Neighborhood District Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.


CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
The property owner to the north was concerned about parking issues. He would like to see that Costa Vida customers do
not use his parking stalls.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
There was agreement that it will be nice to have a smaller building footprint, that will allow for more parking all around.
The Planning Commission brought up concerns about the location of the drive thru. They want to make sure that there is
no spill over onto University Ave. Provo City code requires 3 stacking stalls. This location will have 10. There was
further discussion about the need to possibly change the code so that Provo doesn’t have drive thru on collector roads.
This will be saved for further discussions.
The Planning Commission is also concerned about pedestrian traffic through the parking lot and suggested they put in
vertical stripping to indicate the safest walkways through.
They would like the landscaping to be pedestrian friendly, so customers aren’t forced to walk through the parking lot.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS



                                                       Page 2 of 2
