                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     August 26, 2020


*ITEM 1         Paul Washburn requests a General Plan amendment from Commercial to Residential for the Super 8 Motel,
                located at 1555 N Canyon Road in the General Commercial (CG) zone. Carterville Neighborhood. Aaron
                Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLGPA20200062



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of August
26, 2020:

                               RECOMMENDATION OF DENIAL
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council deny the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Russell Phillips
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Russell Phillips, Deborah Jensen, Ally Jones, Daniel Gonzales, Brian Henrie,
Robert Knudsen
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also recommended denial for a zone change on this property (Item 2, PLRZ20200085), and
 denied the related project plan (Item 3, PLPPA20200150).

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Staff gave an overview of the proposal and staff recommendation as read in the Staff Report.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held, and no concerns were raised.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
     • Paul Evans stated that parking for the property is a large issue. He wants the project to work but cannot support
         it as shown at the hearing.
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Paul Washburn presented the project by giving a history of the motel, commenting on the market of motels and
       married housing, addressing the condition of the hotel and the cleanup efforts that the new management has
       pursued.
   • Paul responded to questions from the Commission regarding the ability to keep occupancy to BYU married
       students, stating he was unsure.
   • When questions were raised on keeping the property a motel and making it more attractive, Paul said they cannot
       fill it enough days and disagrees that would be an option. He said that they are doing a full rehab on the interior
       and exterior.
   • Questions about parking were answered by detailing the parking permit program, and only allowing people with
       one car to rent.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commissioners asked many questions of the applicant regarding parking, upkeep, ability to meet CMU zone
       standards, and alternative ideas to what was presented.
   • Daniel Gonzales mentioned that proximity to campus may not be as large of a draw with how Universities are
       now having to operate. He believes the code issues are not that large but has trouble with switching the property
       from commercial to residential.
   • Robert Knudsen stated that the lack of parking could cause big issues on the property and in the area.
   • Lisa Jensen wondered if combining more rooms or providing a mixed-use component could help the project
       succeed. She believes the reuse is a good idea but cannot justify the General Plan change and zone change with
       the project presented.
   • Brian Henrie liked the idea of reuse but thought that the inability to meet code standards makes the proposal hard
       to approve.
   • Ally Jones stated there is a need for this type of housing but that the parking and overall quality of the project
       need improvement.
   • Deborah Jensen went over the purposes of the CMU zone and stated that the proposal is falling short of meeting
       those objectives, and that the loss of commercial property in the City is difficult to approve.




                 Planning Commission Chair



              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
