                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                       July 27, 2022


 *ITEM #1       Brad Mackay requests approval of a General Plan Map Amendment to Appendix C6, in relation to
                adjustments of development standards in the SDP-5 (Villages at Celebration Specific Development Plan
                Overlay) zone. Lakeview North Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
                PLGPA20220207



 The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of July
 27, 2022:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


 Motion By: Melissa Kendall
 Second By: Robert Knudsen
 Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales, Raleen Wahlin, Miles Miller, Jeff
 Whitlock
 Daniel Gonzales was acting as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

 RELATED ACTIONS
 PLOTA20220107, item #2 on the July 27th, 2022 Planning Commission agenda was also recommended for approval.


GENERAL PLAN MAP AMENDMENT
The proposed map amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff gave an overview and background for the proposed map change and answered questions from
the Planning Commission.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.


                                                        Page 1 of 3
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were not present or did not address the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Mr. Mackay gave a brief history and update of progress of Broadview Shores, noting the need to make changes
       to try to get commercial and support it with different housing types. He also detailed planned open spaces for the
       development in key areas.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Commission went over the prior villages as compared to the new villages and product type allowances in
       different areas of the zone.
   • Daniel Gonzales noted that the proposed changes to the zone and map allow for more granular variety of housing
       types in each village, providing more integrated neighborhoods.
   • The Planning Commission shared appreciation for the open space layout on the map and future plans to connect
       the villages with trails.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS


                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 3
