                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    January 26, 2022


ITEM #4       Tim Metler requests Concept Plan approval for a 62-unit apartment complex in a proposed Campus
              Mixed Use (CMU) zone, located from 46 W to 90 W 800 N. North Park Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore
              (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20210113



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
January 26, 2022:
                                                      DENIED
On a vote of 4:3, the Planning Commission denied the above noted application.

Motion By: Ally Jones (Motion to approve)
Second By: Miles Miller
Votes in Favor of Motion: Ally Jones, Miles Miller, Laurie Urquiaga
Votes Against the Motion: Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Brian Henrie, Lisa Jensen
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

•    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
     Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission also recommended denial of the related rezone request to the City Council (Item #5).

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff related the history of the project to the Planning Commission and responded to questions
from the Commission.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.
• Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
       • Terry Cirac shared his concerns with the amount of parking proposed in the concept plan.


                                                        Page 1 of 2
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
      • Tim Metler gave an overview of the project detailing the amenity spaces and TDM. He also responded to
      questions regarding his proposal and phasing timelines from the Planning Commission.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
      • Lisa Jensen shared concerns about using the CMU zone, parking counts, setback reductions, and the overall
      density for the project. She asked staff about the ability to meet code requirements of the CMU zone and stated
      she likes the proximity to transit and the amenities shown on the project.
      • Dave Anderson stated he is not comfortable with using the CMU zone for all 1.39 acres with an unknown phase
      two timeline, and shared his belief that it would create nonconformity issues on the property.
      • Brian Henrie thought this would be a good location for a project like the one shown and offered that a parking
      reduction could help people to use more alternative transportation options.
      • Miles Miller asked about design standards for the CMU zone and the projects ability to meet those standards.
      • Laurie Urquiaga asked about guest parking and stated that the TDM was not a concern of hers.
      • Ally Jones stated that walking and biking are realistic options for a location and project like this and believed the
      TDM would work.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
   • The Planning Commission has concerns with the use of the CMU zone for the entire 1.39 acres, that there is no
       commercial aspect in the two phases, and still have reservations over the parking reduction.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS



                                                        Page 2 of 2
