                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                  November 09, 2022


*ITEM #4       The Development Services Department requests a General Plan Amendment to adopt the Southwest
               Neighborhood Plan (Lakewood, Sunset, Provo Bay and Fort Utah Neighborhoods). Citywide
               Application. Javin Weaver 801-852-6413 jweaver@provo.org PLGPA20220255


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of
November 09, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above-noted application

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Jeff Whitlock

Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Jeff Whitlock, Raleen Wahlin, Lisa Jensen, Melissa Kendall, and Andrew
South

Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
   • Staff explained what has occurred between hearing this item at a Planning Commission Study Session (Oct. 12,
       2022) and at the hearing of this item.
   • Staff explained that the neighborhood chairs had received a copy of the plan and it had been posted on Open City
       Hall. All Planning Commissioners were invited to provide input before the hearing.
   • Staff verbalized the changes to the document between publication of the staff report and the hearing. The changes
       primarily included the addition of “trails” in the Urban Design section, a Historic Preservation section, updated
       graphics, cosmetic changes, and any feedback received from the Planning Commission and the Lakewood
       Neighborhood Chair.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.
                                                   Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
• Lakewood Neighborhood chair (Becky Bogdin) was present and praised many points of the plan and was happy to
   see it completed. Ms. Bogdin appreciated staff taking her comments sincerely. Ms. Bogdin inquired about not
   including design standards in the plan.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
• Bill Peperone, Development Services Director, said that residential design standards exist within the code for single
   family dwellings. Also, the LDR and MDR nodes within the plan have robust design standards. Mr. Peperone
   questioned whether adding additional standards for single-family dwellings—in an area that already has obstacles to
   development—would be wise.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Lisa Jensen said that adding additional design standards to single-family dwellings would increase the costs of
       the unit.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS



                                                      Exhibit A




                                                       Page 2 of 2
Southwest
Neighborhoods Plan
                                                                                      TABLE OF CONTENTS


                                                      01 INTRODUCTION01


                                                      02 EXISTING CHARACTERISTICS            08


                                                      03 FUTURE LAND USE                     14


                                                      04 URBAN DESIGN                        22


                                                      05 HISTORIC PRESERVATION		              25


                                                      06 IMPLEMENTATION STRATEGIES           26




Southwest Neighborhoods Plan

Produced 2022
Provo Development Services Director - Bill Peperone
Planning Supervisor - Brandon Larsen

Staff
Javin Weaver
  01          INTRODUCTION

  The Southwest Neighborhoods Plan is a product of local citizens and Provo City staff working together to envision the best
  possibilities for the future growth and development of the four southwestern Provo neighborhoods: Fort Utah, Provo Bay,
  Sunset, and Lakewood. With their common growth and development issues, a combined plan will provide a unified direction
  for future housing, shopping, transportation, open space, and utility needs in this unique area of Provo.


A. BACKGROUND/HISTORY
  Historically, the Southwest area of the city provided productive agricultural and grazing lands. During the construction of
  Geneva Steel in nearby Vinyard is when the Southwest area’s first residential subvidision was established. West Park subdivision
  located in the Fort Utah neighborhood, was developed in 1943. The resulting population represented almost 30% of the entire
  Southwest area’s population by the end of 1944.
  Wetlands, high water table, floodplain zones, and associated challenges with these hazards, have also impacted development
  in the Southwest area. The flooding potential for parts of the southwest was illustrated during the floods of 1982-1984. A
  report of United States Senate briefly references the floods and describes steps taken to help protect the southwest area of
  the City from future flooding:
  “From 1982 through 1984 Provo City was impacted by severe flooding which caused significant damage to the community….
  The Army Corps spent approximately $ 2 million to upgrade an existing dike adjacent to the Provo airport, and a new
  dike was constructed along the south side of Provo River from the Utah Lake State Park linking it with the airport dike. An
  additional dike was built along the north shore of Provo Bay to protect residential areas in the southwest section of the City.”

  Over the ensuing years residential growth continued, but in most cases, not as rapidly as in other areas of Provo. Besides the
  desire of many area farmers to continue farming, a major contributor to a more limited growth was the Southwest Area’s
  relative lack of City infrastructure, principally roads, sewer and storm drainage. Still, the Southwest Area has grown to a 2022
  population of over 14,500 people, and over 3,664 housing units.




B. NEED AND PURPOSE
  For some time, the Provo City General Plan has identified the need to develop an area-specific master plan (neighborhood
  plan) for the Southwest area. Over the last few years, the need has become critical as the entire Provo-Orem Metropolitan Area
  has experienced a strong housing demand from regional employment growth as well as the area’s natural population increase.
  The appeal of the Southwest area for meeting some of that demand has drastically risen. Some of the reasons for this appeal
  includes: the large amount of buildable land, increased access provided by Lakeview Parkway, expanded service at the Provo



                                                                                                                               01
         01           INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                                                                      Southwest Neighborhoods Plan



                                                                                                                              D. SUMMARY OF EXISTING GOALS AND POLICIES
                                                                                                                                 The goals and policies of the following plans were reviewed and considered in the creation of the Southwest
                                                                                                                                 Neighborhoods Plan:


                                                                                                                                 1 - PROVO CITY GENERAL PLAN - 2022
                                                                                                                                 SOUTHWEST AREA GUIDING PRINCIPLES , POLICIES AND GOALS:
                                                                                                                                 The General Plan establishes goals for the Southwest area as well as specific goals
                                                                                                                                 for the Fort Utah, Provo Bay, Lakewood, and Sunset neighborhoods. The purpose
                                                                                                                                 of these policies is to guide development in southwest Provo in order to promote
                                                                                                                                 a smart, sustainable, vibrant community that offers a high quality of life for current
                                                                                                                                 and future residents while respecting Provo’s agricultural heritage.

                                                                                                                                 Policy 1 - Preserve Provo’s Agricultural Heritage and Support Agriculture for as
                                                                                                                                 long as Farmers Choose to Farm:
                                                                                                                                    a. Approve the creation of a Provo Agricultural Commission to support local
                                                                                                                                 		      commercial and noncommercial agriculture.
     Municipal Airport, and a declining desire by farmers to continue their operations. The major purpose of this plan is           b. Request that the Provo Agricultural Commission identify obstacles to
     to address these land use and transportation challenges in additon to addressing the area’s ongoing needs, desires,         		      the success of current and prospective farmers, including nontraditional farmers, and recommend ways to 		
     opportunities, while balancing the need to preserve areas within the neighborhood.                                          		      remove these obstacles.
                                                                                                                                    c. Request that the Provo Agricultural Commission explore tools for agricultural preservation. These tools 		
                                                                                                                                 		      may include: conservation easements, transfers of development rights, community land trusts, a privately 		
C. SCOPE AND METHODOLOGY                                                                                                         		      funded farmland trust fund, and Utah’s “Agricultural Protection” Program.
     The Southwest Neighborhoods Plan was created with input from a steering committee comprised of residents, business             d. Encourage the Provo Agricultural Commission to improve the productive use of agricultural land.
     owners, representatives from the Planning Commission, and representatives from the associated neighborhoods. The               e. Encourage Development-Supported Agriculture and Agritourism to help preserve Provo’s agricultural 		
     committee reviewed existing documents and plans identifying a number of objectives including:                               		 heritage.
                                                                                                                                    f. Encourage our state lawmakers to increase funding for the LeRay McAllister Fund.
     •   Understand and identify land use needs and desires, especially relating to residential, commercial, and open space
                                                                                                                                    g. Protect agricultural operations from the impact of residential encroachment.
         uses;
                                                                                                                                    h. Identify agricultural landowners, have their properties listed on developmental maps to better avoid 		
     •   Identify development restrictions including the Utah Lake floodplain, wetlands, and airport constraints;                		      encroachment onto agricultural lands.

     •   Identify the availability and means of providing the necessary utility services for desired land uses;                  Policy 2 - Preserve and Create Quality Usable Open Space:
                                                                                                                                    a. Update and utilize the Parks and Recreation Master Plan to provide developed parks and open space that 		
     •   Examine the means to create attractive and successful business parks in the two areas designated for airport-		         		      satisfy a range of leisure and recreational needs.
         related uses;                                                                                                              b. Preserve and develop natural amenities for sustained enjoyment by the community. Examples include the 		
                                                                                                                                 		      Provo River and banks, the Provo River Delta, Utah Lake shoreline, and wetlands.
     •   Understand marketing needs in identifying existing and potential commercial sites; and
                                                                                                                                    c. Provide parks and trails of different uses and sizes.
     •   Examine the need for a coordinated “branding” of the area and ways in which it can be used to create a true sense          d. Encourage agritourism as a means to provide agriculturally themed open space.
         of place.                                                                                                                  e. Useable neighborhood open space should be an integral part of neighborhood design or combined to serve
                                                                                                                                 		      larger areas than the immediate development.

                                                                                                                                 Policy 3 - Encourage Sustainable Residential Development Patterns:
                                                                                                                                    a. Establish ordinances to require a mix of housing types, lot sizes, and designs to accommodate various stages
                                                                                                                                 		      of life.




02                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               03
      01           INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                                                                              Southwest Neighborhoods Plan



       b.   Detached single-family homes should be the predominant housing type and the use of other types should
     		     augment and not detract from the single-family feel of the area.
       c.   Housing types should be mixed without barriers separating types or densities.                                            i. Recommendations for varied lot sizes
       d.   The scale and style of residences should enhance the surrounding area, regardless of housing type.                 			        a. Definitions of lot sizes
       e.   Create design standards for important road corridors in southwest Provo.
       f.   The overall density of the area should average four units to the acre.

     Policy 4 - Promote Development of Commercial Amenities and Employment Opportunities in Appropriate Locations:
        a. Regional commercial uses may be located adjacent to I-15 or within the Airport Related Activities district.
        b. Neighborhood and Community Shopping zones may be located at or adjacent to arterial or collector streets.
        c. Design, scale and intensity of commercial zones or properties should transition to adjacent residential uses                                *Lot sizes are subject to the minimum requirements for the zone.
     		      to minimize impact on the residential use.
                                                                                                                             			         b. Table of ratios of lot sizes scaled for different developments
     Policy 5 - Create a Robust Transportation Network:
        a. Update the Transportation Master Plan to accommodate the changing needs of southwest Provo.
        b. The planned collector road network should be built as development occurs. No development should
     		      interrupt the collector road network.
        c. Update the Provo City Major and Local Street Plan to include a network of proposed local streets to ensure
     		      connectivity in the land between collector and arterial roads.
        d. Utilize Complete Streets Policies to ensure all modes of transportation are considered.
        e. Utilize the Transportation Master Plan to identify corridors that should have sufficient right-of-way to
     		      accommodate public transit.
        f. Lakeview Parkway is to be maintained as an arterial roadway with limited access.
                                                                                                                                 * Choose EITHER small and medium lots OR medium and large lots (choosing small and large is not desired)
     Policy 6 - Require Proper Integration and Sequencing of Development:
        a. The full block should be considered when rezoning away from agricultural uses.                                       d.   Green space
        b. Conceptual Integrated Development Plan for the entire block should be required for zone change applications.      		      i. Green space is encouraged, 		
        c. Discourage rezoning of land that is surrounded by agricultural zoning.                                            		      especially for developments of
        d. Development may be limited or deferred depending on the availability of adequate municipal infrastructure         		      50 acres or more, and the Council
     		      (such as sewer, storm drainage, water, etc.).                                                                   		      may be inclined to approve projects
                                                                                                                             		      with reduced average lot size 		
     Policy 7 - Restrict Development in Wetlands and Other Environmentally Sensitive Areas:                                  		      based on green space inclusion.
        a. Land south and west of the Lakeview Parkway up to Center Street (excepting the airport protection area)           		      ii. Developers are responsible 		
     		      should be preserved for open space and agricultural uses.                                                       		      for maintaining green space. 		
        b. No development should occur in flood-prone areas unless the risks can be mitigated. Plans for mitigation          		      The use of graywater/non-potable
     		      should be reviewed for adequacy by the Provo City Engineer and any State or Federal regulatory agency           		      water and waterwise landscaping
     		      with jurisdiction to ensure that sensitive lands are appropriately developed to protect people, property or     		      is strongly encouraged.
     		      significant natural features. Mitigation plans should not adversely affect adjacent properties.                    e.   Developers may decide how to
                                                                                                                             		      integrate the different lot sizes
     Policy 8 - Future Land Uses Intent Statement:                                                                           		      within their plans.
        a. The Municipal Council of Provo City reaffirms our commitment to the Southwest Area Guiding Principles,               f.   When discussing units per acre on
     		      Policies and Goals within this plan and adopts this statement to provide additional clarity regarding           		      the west side of Provo, acreages
     		      density and mixed lot sizes. This statement is intended to clarify the existing policies, set common 		         		      should be understood to be gross,
     		      expectations for landowners, the development community, staff, and City officials, and maximize the             		      rather than net.
     		      development potential of west Provo. A significant factor in the Council’s consideration of a rezone proposal
     		      in this area will be how the proposal meets the policies below.                                                                  Models
        b. Sewer capacity limits the west side to three units per acre gross in Residential areas (previously written        These models show examples of the ratios
     		      as four units per acre and interpreted as a net calculation, see the Southwest Area Future Land Use             of small, medium, and large lot sizes as
     		      Map). Given this constraint and the need for diverse housing options, Provo City encourages developers to       described in the tables above and should
     		      submit ambitious, creative plans that provide a variety of lot and housing sizes to meet the varied needs of    not be interpreted as conveying any other
     		      Provo residents, present and future.                                                                            recommendations.
        c. Varied Lot Sizes Policies



04                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          05
      01           INTRODUCTION                                                                                                                                    Southwest Neighborhoods Plan



                                                                                              and Site and Facilities Recommendations, all of which could pertain to the Southwest area of the city. Some of the
                                                                                              priorities are:
                                                                                              •   Improving the distribution of parks to accommodate areas of residential growth and increased density;
                                                                                              •   Tails that improve connectivity to and around the City;
                                                                                              •   Improving the distribution of parks to accommodate areas of residential growth and increased density;
                                                                                              •   Developing an additional regional and/or sports complex with borad age and activity appeal;
                                                                                              •   Developing access to the Provo River and improved recreational features wtihin the river corridor;
                                                                                              •   Developing new types of parks that serve unique needs (i.e., universal playground, special use areas, etc.); and
                                                                                              • Developing more non-traditional sports and recreational opportunities Monitor and promote responsible
                                                                                              economic development.


                                                                                              6 - UTAH LAKE MASTER PLAN - 2009
                                                                                              The Utah Lake Master Plan was adopted in June 2009 by the Utah Lake Commission,
                                                                                              now redesignated as the Utah Lake Authority, an organization made up of
                                                                                              representatives from neighboring municipalities, Utah County, the Department
                                                                                              of Natural Resources, and other agencies of the State of Utah. The objectives and
     2 - TRANSPORTATION MASTER PLAN - 2020                                                    purposes of the Utah Lake Commission are summarized as:

     Specific recommendations for the Southwest area of Provo include:                        •   Encourage and promote multiple uses of the lake;
     Lakeview Parkway. Lakeview Parkway is a an arterial built to serve the growing           •   Foster communication and coordination between Authority members;
     western neighborhoods of Provo and connect them to Interstate 15, the Provo              •   Promote resource utilization and protection;
     Municipal Airport and the rest of the City. The roadway has a multi-use trail adjacent
     which serves active travelers. Lakeview Parkway presents opportunities for scenic        •   Maintain and develop recreation access; and
     rides along the shore of Utah Lake and include a shared use path along the corridor.     •   Monitor and promote responsible economic development.

     Geneva Road. Geneva Road provides a link from the western part of Provo to Orem
     and Vineyard. It could benefit from a shared use or side path providing a facility for
     foot traffic, as well as bicycling.

     Active Transportation. A system of active transportation corridors to enhance
     existing systems and create connections.

     3 - BICYCYCLE MASTER PLAN - 2014
     A In early 2014, the Provo City Municipal Council approved the Bicycle
     Plan as an appendage to the Transportation Master Plan. It is included as
     Section 10 of the current Transportation Master Plan.

     4 - AIRPORT MASTER PLAN - 2000
     The Provo Municipal Airport has an Airport Master Plan that was adopted in
     2000. Since then, there has been an updated airport master plan that will soon be
     adopted. This master plan discusses the current needs at the airport and the future
     direction of the airport.

     5 - PARKS AND RECREATION MASTER PLAN - 2021
     TheThe Parks and Recreation Master Plan was adopted in December 2021. Key
     elements of this plan include findings from a stastically valid survey of residents
     indicating community priorities and needs. These community priorities are listed in
     the Community Needs Assessment, Facility Assessment and Service Level Analysis,

06                                                                                                                                                                                                                   07
                 EXISTING
     02          CHARACTERISTICS
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Southwest Neighborhoods Plan




     This section of the Southwest Neighborhoods Plan provides background on the area’s existing land uses, transportation      INDUSTRIAL / MANUFACTURING
     network, demographics, and overall character and environment.
                                                                                                                                All existing industrial and manufacturing
                                                                                                                                uses in the Southwest area are located
                                                                                                                                either next to or within the boundaries
A. LAND USE                                                                                                                     of the Provo Municipal Airport. All areas
                                                                                                                                denoted as “Airport Related Activities”
     RESIDENTIAL                                                                                                                on the current General Plan Map, are
                                                                                                                                intended locations for industrial and
     Today the Southwest area contains over 14,500 residents in
                                                                                                                                commercial uses that would benefit from
     3,664 housing units. These numbers are projected to more
                                                                                                                                close proximity to the airport, but would                                     DUNCAN AVIATION FACILITY
     than double upon buildout of the area). Over 90% of the
                                                                                                                                not create a conflict or hindrance to airport
     housing units are single-family detached units. The remaining
     housing units include a 144-unit mobile home park, a small                                                                 operations.
     number of duplexes, triplexes and fourplexes, and a number
     of townhomes, all located toward the eastern side of the                      HOMES IN THE WEST PARK SUBDIVISION           AGRICULTURAL LANDS
     Southwest area or along Lakeview Parkway.                                                                                  For the most part, agricultural lands in the Southwest
                                                                                                                                Area are used for growing feed crops or grazing. Although
                                                                                                                                agriculture still remains a major land use within the
     COMMERCIAL
                                                                                                                                Southwest area, only those lands south of the Lakeview
     The relatively small amount of commercial development                                                                      Parkway are designated as “Agricultural” by the current
     in the Southwest area is located almost entirely within two                                                                General Plan, making up 43% of the total land in the
     general nodes along Center Street: the intersection of Center                                                              Southwest area.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     AGRICULTURAL FIELD
     Street and 1600 West, and, the intersection of Center Street
     and Geneva Road (2050 West). The only exceptions include                                                                   AGRICULTURAL LANDS
     a retail garden store associated with the large greenhouse
                                                                              NEWER HOMES IN THE PELICAN CREEK SUBDIVISION      The Southwest area enjoys an abundance of open space, especially with
     nursery at 400 South Lakeview Parkway and some limited
                                                                                                                                the large agricultural area south of the Lakeview Parkway. Significant
     retail uses associated with the airport. Currently, there are no
                                                                                                                                open space areas also include the various City parks and school
     medical offices and no traditional business or professional
                                                                                                                                playgrounds, as well as large portions of the airport property.
     office buildings located within the entire Southwest area. The
     following paragraphs provide further details of the two Center                                                             The City is developing a Regional Sports Park near 2300 West Lakeview
     Street commercial nodes:                                                                                                   Parkway, which fulfills a visionary goal in the Parks and Recreation Master
                                                                                                                                Plan. Besides sporting activities the regional park will include some of
     Center Street / 1600 West. This is a 13-acre commercially zoned                                                            the basic elements of a neighborhood park and amenities similar to
     area. However, due to the Center Street freeway interchange,                                                               those found in a community park. This regional park is designed to meet
     only 4 acres in this area are actually used or available for                                                               the growing community need for athletic fields, as well as to provide
     commercial development.                                                                                                    major economic and social assets to the community as it will be the
                                                                                     CLUSTERED HOMES ON 2050 WEST
                                                                                                                                epicenter of many local and regional sports tournaments, recreation
     Center Street / Geneva Road. This is a commercially zoned area                                                             programs, and community events.
     of approximately 15.5 acres. Of those 10.5 acres are used, and an additional 1.5 acres are only lightly utilized. With a
     couple of minor exceptions, zoning on these properties follows the General Plan’s “Commercial” designation.
                                                                                                                                                                                           PUBLIC       SOUTHWEST FUTURE LAND USE MAP - OPEN SPACE AND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    AIRPORT INDUSTRIAL (AI)
                                                                                                                                                                                           BUILDINGS,
                                                                                                                                                                                           FACILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                           AND UTILITIES
                                                                                                                                                                                           Provo Municipal Airport. Located on the shore of Utah Lake,
                                                                                                                                                                                           is the Southwest area’s largest and most significant public
                                                                                                                                                                                           facility. Besides general aviation and commercial, the airport
                                                                                                                                                                                           also accommodates air carrier/air taxi, air cargo, military,
                                                                                                                                                                                           corporate, emergency, medical, and agricultural users.
              CENTER STREET / 1600 WEST COMMERCIAL AREA                     CENTER STREET / GENEVA ROAD COMMERCIAL AREA
                                                                                                                                        PROVO MUNICIAPL AIRPORT ENTRANCE SIGN              Public Safety. The Southwest area’s only public safety

08                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    09
     02            EXISTING CHARACTERISTICS                                                                                                                                                                          Southwest Neighborhoods Plan



       buildings are Fire Station #4 (located at 95 South




                                                                                                                                                                              LAKESHORE DR
       2050 West) and an auxiliary fire station at the Provo




                                                                                                                                                   LAKEVIEW PKWY
       Municipal Airport. Fire Station #4 responds to the
                                                                                                                                                                                             620 N
       needs of the four Southwest area neighborhoods
       and the two Lakeview neighborhoods to the north.




                                                                                                                                                                                                        GENEVA RD
       The Airport Station houses two specialty vehicles for
       Aircraft Rescue and Fire Fighting (ARFF) response. That
       station is staffed by firefighters from Station #4 during
       the landing and takeoff of commercial flights.
       Utah Lake State Park. In 1967, the State of Utah created




                                                                                                                                                                   LAKEVIEW PKWY
       Utah Lake State Park, at the Provo Boat Harbor that was                      FIRE STATION #4
       developed by Provo City. Principal features of the park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             600 S
       include boating, picnicking, and camping facilities.




                                                                                                                                                                                               2470 W


                                                                                                                                                                                                        2050 W



                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1600 W
       Schools. Currently, there are only two public schools in the
       Southwest area. Sunset View Elementary, which has existed
       since the 1950s, was completely reconstructed on-site in 2016.                                                                                                                                                        1150 S
       Amelia Earhart Elementary first opened in August 1998.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1100 W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               500 W
       City Utilities. Provo City’s utility services include the provision
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1560 S
       of culinary water and electrical power, as well as the removal
       of wastewater (sewer), solid waste (garbage), and storm                                                                                                                                                          LAKEV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                IEW P
       water. There are no anticipated issues with the availability of                                                                                                                                                                KWY
                                                                                SUNSETVIEW ELEMENTARY SCHOOL
       culinary water or electricity to the Southwest area. Culinary
       water principally comes from springs in the canyons east of
       the city and a number of deep wells. The City has sufficient                                                                              MAJOR AND LOCAL STREET PLAN - TRANSPORTATION MASTER PLAN (TMP) FIGURE 4.1
       water available for both its current and anticipated needs,
       but is working on improving water storage and distribution
                                                                                                                        Arterial Streets. Arterial Streets are the highest capacity roadways and are indicated by the red or yellow lines on
       throughout the City. There are no anticipated issues with the
                                                                                                                        the plan map on the page above.
       availability or distribution of culinary water to the Southwest
       Area.                                                                                                            Center Street has historically been the Southwest area’s main connection to the rest of Provo City and is the 		
                                                                                                                        principal roadway connection used to access Utah Lake State Park.
       In order to handle the full development of the Southwest area                                                    Geneva Road runs between Center Street and Pleasant Grove City and forms the largest portion of State Route 		
       as proposed in the City’s General Land Use Plan, an additional                                                   114.
       36- inch sewer trunk line needs to pass under the freeway at                 AMELIA EARHART ELEMENTARY SCHOOL    Lakeview Parkway rovides a direct connection between Interstate 15 and the Provo Municipal Airport. An 		
       1450 South. This new trunk line is planned to extend to the
                                                                                                                        additional phases will extend the Parkway northward from 1530 North into Orem where it will connect to 		
       treatment plant around the year 2026. Afterwards development may advance in the Southwest area while being
                                                                                                                        Geneva Road (SR 114).
       restricted with the capacity limits of the new line restricted to the remaining capacity in the existing line.
                                                                                                                        500 West between Lakeview Parkway and Interstate 15 and 2050 West between Lakeview Parkway and Center 		
B. TRANSPORTATION                                                                                                       Street are both considered minor arterials.

     The Provo City Transportation Master Plan (TMP) was developed                                                      Collector Streets. Collector Streets are mid-sized capacity roadways and are indicated by the blue on the map above.
     to create a unified street and transportation system and serves as                                                 These roads are meant to move traffic from local streets to arterial roads and are mean to limit access.
     the guide for the transportation network for the Southwest Area.
     The plan includes street and vehicular elements, transit system                                                    North-South collectors include: 1100 West, 1600 West, and Lakeshore Drive as it extends northward from Lakeview
     elements, and active transportation components such as bike                                                        Parkway. Currently only 500 West and 1100 West connect to Lakeview Parkway. Street 2470 West has not been
     paths and pedestrian walkways.                                                                                     completed between 560 South and Lakeview Parkway nor 1600 West between 1150 South and Lakeview Parkway
                                                                                                                        nor 2050 West between 600 South and Laekview Parkway.
                                                                                                                        East-West collectors include Center Street as it extends west from Lakeview Parkway to Utah Lake State Park, 600
                                                                                                                        South, and 1150 South. At present, neither 600 South nor 1150 South are fully extended to the west with 600 South
                                                                                                                        now ending at 2470 West and 1150 South at 1600 West.
                                                                              PROVO WATER RECLAMATION FACILITY




10                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     11
      02           EXISTING CHARACTERISTICS                                                                                                                                                         Southwest Neighborhoods Plan



                                                             ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION                                                Utah Lake:
                                                                                                                                  Covering about 96,000 acres, Utah Lake is one of the largest freshwater lakes in the Western United States and
                                                             Bikeways and Pedestrian Ways: Provo has been growing its
                                                                                                                                  is popular for water sports and fishing. Besides acting as a reservoir for agricultural lands in the Salt Lake Valley,
                                                             bikeway and pedestrian network for many years. An area
                                                                                                                                  Utah Lake also provides a valuable environmental resource, and its surrounding shoreline provides for a variety of
                                                             where significant progress has recently been made is the
                                                                                                                                  biological activities. It is also a critical piece of our ecosystem.
                                                             initial development of Lakeview Parkway Trail. The Parkway
                                                             connects western Provo with the rest of the City and includes        The Provo River:
                                                             a multi-use pathway running parallel to the road for both            The Provo River is the largest of the rivers and creeks feeding Utah Lake. The Federal government is nearing
                                                             bicycle and pedestrian use                                           completion of the restoration of the Provo River Delta. The project will divert the Provo River northward, near Lake
                                                                                                                                  Shore Drive, where the river will meander and split into multiple streams, recreating its former delta area before
                                                             The Provo River Parkway Trail provides an active transportation      entering the lake. River water will continue to flow in the existing channel, but at a very reduced volume.
                                                             connection from Utah Lake State Park to the Provo Canyon
                                                                                                                                  Dry Creek:
                                                             recreational areas.    The paved surface trail provides
                                                             connectivity and outdoor recreational opportunities along            Dry Creek is valuable both for irrigation and as a storm water drainage and runoff water filtration system. The creek
                                                             the entire route.                                                    begins to become discernible as it runs southward from roughly about 1330 West and 900 South. After entering
                                                                                                                                  Footprinter Park, it then flows under 1050 South to several larger ponds on the south side of the roadway. The
                                                               As of October 2022, Provo City is contracted wtih BIRD
                                                               micromobility to provide the City with e-bikes and e-scooters.     creek then crosses under the Lakeview Parkway at approximately 1550 West before flowing onward into the lake.
     ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION PLAN PHASES 1 & 2 - TMP FIGURE 5.10
                                                               These modes of transportation can be riden through out the
       City and provde a needed source for individuals first-mile and last-mile.                                                SENSITIVE LANDS
                                                                                                                                The Southwest area has an abundance of sensitive lands. Without proper protection, new growth could have a
       PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION.                                                                                                   serious impact on these lands and their related environment.
       Provo City is served by the Utah Transit Authority. Currently, one bus route, the 833, serves the entire Southwest       Wetlands:
       area. The route runs between the airport and the Provo Central Station which connects you to Front Runner, along
                                                                                                                                Wetlands are those areas where the water table is at, near, or above the land surface for a significant part of most
       Center Street and 1150 West. buildout of the Southwest Area, this area of the City is projected to grow to be an
                                                                                                                                years. They are found throughout the Southwest area and the vast majority are on the south side of Lakeview
       additional 14,600 residents.
                                                                                                                                Parkway in the Provo Bay area of Utah Lake.

C. DEMOGRAPHICS                                                                                                                 Disturbance of wetlands for development is not permitted without completion of an extensive federal permitting
                                                                                                                                process. Requirements through that process may involve establishing new wetlands in an alternative location.
     According to the 2020 American Community Survey 5-year estimate and subdivisions approved between 2020 and                 Sometimes these mitigation processes can actually result in creating more wetland areas than existed at the original
     2022, the number of housing units for the Southwest Area totals 3,664. This represents 9.13% of Provo’s total housing      location.
     units.                                                                                                                     Floodplains:
     Housing Types. Single-family, detached housing units are the most common type of housing comprising 75% of the             There are of two different types of floodplains in the Southwest area. The first is associated with flooding from the 		
     housing units in the Southwest area. Currently, there are only eight housing units that have active rental dwelling        Provo River. The second involves flooding caused by Utah Lake rising above its compromise or “full” level.
     licenses. The remainder of the homes are owner occupied, which is significantly higher than other areas within the
     city.                                                                                                                      Provo River Floodplain. This floodplain includes lands adjacent to the river where water will likely flow if the river 		
                                                                                                                                channel receives more water than it can carry. Due to careful management of the river’s flow, there has not 		
     TENURE                                                                                                                     been extensive flooding from the river since 1983. City ordinances restrict buildings and other structures from 		
     Comparing the tenure of the Southwest area to the rest of Provo, there is a higher rate of owner occupancy. In the         being constructed within 100 feet of the top of the nearest riverbank to allow better river flood control access 		
                                                                                                                                and lessen the chance of the water flow being dammed by structures and debris during flooding.
     Southwest area, only 0.002% of the homes are rented in comparison to the city-wide rental occupancy rate of 62.5%.
                                                                                                                                Utah Lake Floodplain. The floodplain includes the area where lake water could extend into shoreline areas. The 		
     POPULATION                                                                                                                 water level of Utah Lake can fluctuate greatly depending
                                                                                                                                on the water flow into and out of the lake and the amount
     Currently there are 14,500 residents who live in the southwest area. Over the next few decades, the Mountainland
                                                                                                                                of evaporation that takes place during the year.
     Association of Governments projects Provo’s population to be over 170,600 by 2050. Based on the projected
     buildout of the Southwest Area, this area of the City is projected to grow to be an additional 14,600 residents.           Watertable. A high-water table exists for the entire Southwest
                                                                                                                                area. This can cause standing water to occur when the
D. CHARACTER / ENVIRONMENT                                                                                                      water table receives more water than can percolate into the
                                                                                                                                ground or else be drained. Properly engineered drainage
     PHYSICAL FEATURES                                                                                                          systems and raised building foundations can lessen impacts
                                                                                                                                from a high-water table.
     The Southwest area includes some outstanding physical characteristics including portions of the Provo River, Utah
     Lake, wetlands and a large amount of open space.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PROVO RIVER


12                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   13
     03            FUTURE LAND USE                                                                                                                                                                      Southwest Neighborhoods Plan




     Character is important as it often leads to how a neighborhood or area is perceived and can even affect how people                at a density of up to 12 units per acre, as well as detached single-family lots as small
     within the area socially interact. Several area residents have expressed concern that the existing character of the               as 4,000 square feet. LDR type development is also a possible component for areas
     Southwest area will be adversely affected by new development. However, the counter belief has been expressed by                   designated as “Neighborhood Mixed-Use.”
     many others that it will be this new development that will accentuate the Southwest area’s many outstanding features
     and work to establish the long desired positive identity for the area.                                                           MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (MDR)
     Creating a future land use map for the Southwest area neighborhoods began with identifying and assessing past                    The Southwest area’s highest density residential development should occur on land
     development activity (see General Plan policy on Pg. 3) as well as current economic and social conditions. Following             with an MDR designation. MDR occurs only in the area north of Center Street, next
     an initial assessment and input period, an extensive examination of the area was made using the following                        to Interstate 15 and is to have a mix of housing types with an overall density of up
     considerations 1) Anticipating the development needs and desires of the area and its relevant neighborhoods; 2)                  to 30 units per acre. Allowed housing types in an MDR Zone include both attached
     Identifying development issues, including opportunities and constraints to development; 3) Identifying areas suitable            single-family units and apartment units. Unlike other residential areas, there is no
     or unsuitable for different types of development; 4) Identifying areas suitable for addressing broader City needs                restriction on stacking units one above another. MDR-scale development could also
     and opportunities; 5) Analyzing and proposing ways in which the area should develop over time; 6) Examining and                  be a component in the adjacent “Village Center” designation.                        EXAMPLE OF LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (LDR)
     proposing appropriate policies and standards to guide development; and, 7)Surveying property owners to determine
     their desires for future us of their properties.                                                                               B. COMMERCIAL
     The resulting Southwest area Future Land Use map presents the land uses determined to best address both the areas,               During the creation of this plan, one of the most common desires expressed by
     and where appropriate, the City’s needs for housing, shopping, jobs, transportation, and recreation. The boundaries              residents of the Southwest area was for a grocery store and other commercial uses,
     of the illustrated land uses should be viewed as flexible and not hard boundaries to allow creativity in the layout and          including professional and medical offices. With the reconstruction of the University
     development of a site. For properties not clearly depicted on the land use plan or specifically described within the text        Avenue Interstate 15 interchange and the opening of the Lakeview Parkway,
     of this section, their intended development is to be in harmony with that of adjoining or nearby properties.                     consideration of additional locations for commercial development have been
                                                                                                                                      designated:

A. RESIDENTIAL                                                                                                                        VILLAGE CENTER / COMMERCIAL MIXED-USE (MU)
                                                                                                                                      This designation is intended to allow for the development of a mix of retail, office,
     Over one-half of the area represented on the Future Land Use Map is planned for residential development. In addition
                                                                                                                                      and residential uses, with attractive site amenities and distinctive design features
     to the four principally residential designations listed in this section, the mixed-use designations listed in the next
                                                                                                                                      with a density limit of 30 dwelling units per acre. The intent is not only to provide
     subsection also allow residential uses.
                                                                                                                                      for a grocery center and associated retail users, but to also facilitate the creation EXAMPLE OF MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDEN-
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TIAL (MDR)
     The objective and intention of the various residential designations is to provide for a variety of housing types that            of a major activity core for all six of the neighborhoods on the western side of the
     are spread through the area, rather than just congregated into a single site or neighborhood. The plan also attempts             City. Residential development within this designation should match the density and
     to add enough residential units to the area to effectively support the successful development of neighborhood and                scope of the City’s MDR zone. To that end, the Village Center’s layout should be
     community commercial centers without overloading available or planned public infrastructure.                                     unified in design with that of the adjacent MDR area.

     RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL (RA)                                                                                                    NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER / MIXED-USE (NMU)
                                  The RA designation is intended to allow for the development of single-family residential            These areas are generally to be three to eight acres in size and intended for the
                                  lots while also allowing limited agricultural type uses – mainly the keeping of farm animals.       development of smaller-scale retail and office commercial uses with a density
                                                                                                                                      limit of 12 dwelling units per acre. Gas stations and convenience stores would be
                                  RESIDENTIAL - SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED (RES)                                                          anticipated at the sites adjoining the parkway, with more localized retail and office
                                                                                                                                      uses in the interior areas. Townhomes, bungalow courts, or similar scale residential
                                  The “The “RES” or residential designation is the most                                               uses are also appropriate to create a transition between the commercial areas and
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXAMPLE OF MIXED USE (MU)
                                  prevalent residential designation. It generally includes all                                        adjacent, lower density residential developments and vertical mixed use with a
                                  areas suitable for residential development that are not                                             limitation of three stories and no taller than 38 feet.
                                  otherwise reserved for Residential/Agricultural uses, or else
                                  areas suited for higher density development. Areas with this                                        REGIONAL COMMERCIAL (FC3)
                                  designation would generally allow up to three (3) units per
EXAMPLE OF RESIDENTIAL AGRICUL-                                                                                                       This is a generalized designation for two areas located on the western side of the
          TURAL (RA)
                                  gross acre.
                                                                                                                                      University Avenue Interstate 15 interchange. The intent is to allow for larger scale
     LOW DENSITY RESIDENTIAL (LDR)                                                           EXAMPLE OF SINGLE FAMILY RESIDENTIAL     retail users whose marketing area likely extends beyond Provo’s boundaries. These
                                                                                                            (RES)                     regional commercial areas should not extend west of 500 West.
      For the most part, LDR areas are located at or near the Lakeview Parkway intersections. Development within these
      LDR areas is intended to follow allowances in the City’s LDR zone, which allows for attached single-family dwellings            To make the area successful, proper consideration should be given to providing          EXAMPLE OF NEIGHBORHOOD MIXED USE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (NMU)
14                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            15
     03          Future Land Use                                                                                                                                                                                   Southwest Neighborhoods Plan



          both sufficient and efficient access to the area from the Lakeview Parkway.
          Intended more as a transition area than providing for a truly integrated mix of
          uses, an enhanced landscape buffer is required between the regional commercial
          area and the existing Lakewood single-family subdivision to its north.

     C. INDUSTRIAL/COMMERCIAL
          The Future Land Use Map on page 20 of this document includes over 286 acres
          designated for industrial/commercial uses. The included areas are located next
          to or in close proximity to the airport. The intended purpose is that the airport
          will attract light industrial and business type uses that desire close proximity to
          the airport, as well as the direct access provided by Lakeview Parkway.

                                                                                                EXAMPLE OF REGIONAL COMMERCIAL (FC3)
          AIRPORT (A)
          This designation applies to approximately 940 acres within the fence of the
          Provo Municipal Airport. The anticipated development would include expanded airport uses, corporate office and
          manufacturing parks, as well as some retail uses supporting the surrounding uses.

          AIRPORT INDUSTRIAL (AI)
          This designation applies to approximately 286 acres in the areas directly north and east of the airport property. The
          anticipated development includes corporate offices, hotels, warehouses, and eating establishments that would help
          in supporting the area around the airport.

     D. AGRICULTURAL
                                                                                                                                                                           FIGURE ILLUSTRATES ESTIMATED CONTINUATION OF AGRULTURAL USES
          During the preparation of the Southwest Future Land Use Map, extensive discussions took place concerning the
          community value and need to protect agricultural lands and ongoing farming operations. However, during public
          meetings and individual conversations, farmers shared their experience that farming has                                      E. PARKS, TRAILS & OPEN SPACE
          become more difficult and less profitable in recent years. For example, the ground water                                        Almost all areas on the Future Land Use Map designated as parks already exist. The
          level has deepened so irrigating crops has become a challenge. To better understand their                                       exceptions include: the Big Dry Creek area, land the City owns south of Lakewood Park, land
          position, a survey was taken of area farmers that simply asked how long they intended to                                        the City owns east of the Sunset View Neighborhood Park, two additional areas along the
          continue farming. The map on the following page categorizes their responses.                                                    Provo River and a new connection south to Springville from Lakeview Parkway. Additional
          Of those who responded, fifty-three percent (53%) indicated, they plan to continue                                              Park improvement details can be found in Chapter 7 – Site and Facility Recommendations
          farming for less than five years. Ten percent (10%) of respondents indicated they plan                                          of the 2021 Parks and Recreation Master Plan.
          to continue to farm between five and ten years, and the remaining thirty-seven percent
          (37%) of respondents plan to continue farming for longer than ten years.
                                                                                                                                          BIG DRY CREEK
                                                                                                                                          The creek is located between 1150 South and Lakeview Parkway between 1100 West and
          AGRICULTURAL (A1)                                                                                                               1600 West. Big Dry Creek provides an opportunity for connecting and unifying feature for
                                                                                                                                          future development in the area. As the area develops, street crossings of Big Dry Creek          ILLUSTRATING BIG DRY CREEK
          The majority of land located south of Lakeview Parkway is intended to retain agricultural                                       should be limited, and where possible the street system should front along the creek area.
          allowances and to further protect and preserve ongoing agricultural operations. There                                           This would also allow dwellings to face the creek area, making it a safe, visible amenity
          are several mechanisms the City could utilize to preserve productive agricultural areas. EXAMPLE OF AGRICULTURE (A1) AND        rather than becoming an isolated passageway bound by back yard fences. Big Dry Creek
          The most common include funding their purchase, creating a conservation easement,            AIRPORT INDUSTRIAL (AI)            also has a functional purpose as a part of the City’s stormwater management system.
          or transferring development rights from farmland that could then be transferred to
          designated receiving areas.                                                                                                     LAKEWOOD PARK

          Nearly 140 additional acres have been designated as agricultural on the Land Use Map which has divided the                      This park is located approximently at 400 West 1400 South. Formerly known as “Powerline
          Agriculture zone with 68 acres on the east side, and 70 acres on the west side.                                                 Park 4” this area would be an expansion of the existing park southward on approximately
                                                                                                                                          three acres of City-owned property. This park expansion would give the residential areas
                                                                                                                                          to the south a more direct access to the park at 1500 South. The Parks and Recreation
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        ILLUSTRATING LAKEWOOD PARK
                                                                                                                                          Department uses an inclusive park design process that involves local residents and City staff           LOCATION
                                                                                                                                          to evaluate opportuntities, persepective and consider alternatives for the development of
                                                                                                                                          the final plans.
16                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               17
      03            Future Land Use                                                                                                                                                                            Southwest Neighborhoods Plan



     SUNSET VIEW PARK                                                                                                                  Bicycle Master Plan all speak to the necessity for integrated connections in Provo’s street system. Because of its relatively
                                                                                                                                       undeveloped nature, the Southwest area of Provo presents a great opportunity to significantly improve connectivity.
     This park is located at 380 South1600 West, Sunset View Neighborhood Park                                                         Standards for new developments should incorporate: 1) alleyways and mid-block pedestrian connections (or thru-
     will have improved park facilities and expanded parking east into the current                                                     ways or shortcuts), 2) shorter streets and smaller blocks, 3) traffic calming methods on local streets; and, 4) prohibiting
     City-owned property. The parking expansion would increase connectivity to                                                         dead-ends (cul-de-sacs) or closing streets as methods to control excessive vehicular traffic.
     the surrounding neighborhood through an inclusive park design process that
     involves local residents and City staff to evaluate opportuntities, persepective                                                  ACTIVE TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS
     and consider alternatives for the development of the final plans.
                                                                                                                                       The following gives a general background and recommendations for active modes of transportation in the 		
                                                                                                                                       Southwest area:
     PROVO RIVER PARKWAY AREAS                                                                   ILLUSTRATING PROVO PARKWAY RIVER
                                                                                                           AREA LOCATION
                                                                                                                                       Bikeways and Pedestrian Ways: For the Southwest area, the Bicycle Master Plan proposes bikeways along each of the
     The Provo River Trail in the Southwest area has been widened and resurfaced, with                                                 area’s arterial and collector streets, both as they exist and as they are proposed. Completion of the Lakeview Parkway
     enhanced pathway lighting added to areas along the route to enhance safety for trail                                              Trail and the Airport Dike Trail are near but should continue to remain a high priority. Additional considerations for
     users.                                                                                                                            bikeways and pedestrian ways should include new off-street multi-use trails along the Dry Creek area, as well as trail
                                                                                                                                       extensions from arterial and collector streets into new developments.
     PROVO RIVER DELTA GATEWAY PARK                                                                                                    Public Transportation: An increase in bus routes in the Southwest area will depend on future development,
                                                                                                                                       including increased airport use and planned employment centers near the airport. Considerations for future
     This park is located approximently on the south side of the Provo River adjacent to                                               routes might include utilizing 600 South as an east-west route, adding a north-south route along Geneva Road,
     Lakeshore Drive. The Parks & Recreation Department has partnered with federal                                                     and extending the Utah Valley Express (UVX) rapid transit system to the airport. The Provo Municipal Airport
     agencies in the planning and development of a new City park at the entrance to the                                                has a station that was built to accommodate a UVX-like bus. The City will continue to work with the Utah Transit
     restored Provo River delta. The new Delta Gateway Park will integrate the existing            ILLUSTRATING DELTA GATEWAY
                                                                                                                                       Authority to determine when and where additional routes are feasible.
                                                                                                            LOCATION
     Lakeshore bridge trailhead and include parking, playgrounds, pavilion and picnic areas
     as well as ecosystem and wildlife interpretation. This park will be a junction for the Provo River Trail into the new          G. PUBLIC FACILITIES
     delta and to Utah County owned and managed lands along the existing channel that will feature trails, parks and
     linear ponds.                                                                                                                     With the future growth in the area, new public facilities will be necessary as well as updating and enlarging existing
                                                                                                                                       infrastructure. The following briefly discusses the various public facilities that will be required with anticipated growth
                                                                                                                                       in the Southwest area.
     PROVO BAY MULTI-USE PATH
                                                                                                                                       CITY UTILITIES
     A new multi-use pathway connection from the Lakeview Parkway Trail to Springville City on the west side of
     Interstate 15 would add an important active transportation path to Provo’s extensive trail system This path would                 Adopted master plans relating to the various City utilities have all considered the full build-out of the Southwest area.
     offer access to the Provo Bay area to a greater number of recreational and other users and contribute to greater                  For dispersing utilities such as power and water that distribute from a source, most of the necessary improvements for
     regional trail connectivity.                                                                                                      further development will occur in conjunction with each new development project. However, for the two collecting
                                                                                                                                       systems (i.e., wastewater and stormwater), larger system improvements are necessary in certain areas before
F. TRANSPORTATION                                                                                                                      development can proceed. This is especially applicable to wastewater collection. A new sewer lift station near the
                                                                                                                                       airport is under construction and is expected to be completed by the end of 2022 or early 2023. This new station will
     The following paragraphs lay out various aspects of a transportation system to be considered in the further                       add sewer capacity for expected growth in the Southwest area.
     development of the Southwest Area. These aspects include: the street network, street design, street connectivity and
     active transportation systems.                                                                                                    PUBLIC SAFETY
     STREET NETWORK                                                                                                                    With the population growth occurring in the area west of Interstate 15, as well as increased air traffic at the airport, the
                                                                                                                                       Provo City Fire Department is exploring several options to continue providing necessary and adequate emergency
     The current and proposed network of arterial and collector streets in the Southwest Area employs a grid type layout.              response within the area. It is likely there will need to be an additional fire station west of the freeway. It is also likely
     The obvious exception is the Lakeview Parkway where the lake’s shoreline, floodplain, and wetlands affect its location.           the airport fire station will need to be enlarged and fully staffed at some point in the future as emergency coverage is
     Modifications to the existing street network that should be considered are illustrated on the Southwest area’s Land               required with landings and departures of commercial airline flights.
     Use Maps. These modifications include the addition of local street designations to the map were deemed important
     and necessary to address better connectivity in certain areas.                                                                    PROVO MUNICIPAL AIRPORT
     STREET DESIGN AND CONNECTIVITY                                                                                                    Including an expansion of the airport boundaries another change that will affect the surrounding area will be
                                                                                                                                       parrallel aligning of the secondary runway to the west of the main runway (Runway 13-31). If the second runway were
     The design for the street system should be unique in response to the neighborhood or community context. It                        constructed, the need for the current crosswind runway (Runway 18-36) would be eliminated, as well as the need to
     may include: wider sidewalks or pathways, bike lanes, special bus lanes, public transportation stops, frequent and                maintain the airport area toward the northeast corner of the airport.
     safe crossing opportunities, median islands, accessible pedestrian signals, curb extensions, narrower travel lanes,
     roundabouts and more. The goals and objectives listed in the General Plan, the Transportation Master Plan and the


18                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               19
     03   Future Land Use                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Southwest Neighborhoods Plan




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Southwest




                                                 Lakeview Pkwy
                                                                              Trailhead                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Future Land Use
                                                                                        Park                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Land Use (Proposed)                                   Acres
                                                                                                                                                                                River Trail                                                                                                                                                                                                               Agricultural/Open Space                             304 ac
                                                                                        (5 ac)                                                                            Provo                                                             Park                                                                                                                                                          Airport Support Businesses                          385 ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Trailhead                                  (4 ac)                                                                                                                                                        Commercial                                           88 ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Residential (~3,718 new units)                      806 ac
                                         Future TH                  RES                                                                                                                                                      Exist. Park                                                                                                                                                                    MDR - 36 ac (729)
                                                                   (15 ac)                                                                                                                                                         (13 ac)                                                                                                                                                                  LDR - 102 ac (1,224)
                                                                              RES                                                                                                                                                                        1 MDR                                                                                                                                              R1 @ net - 579 ac (1,621)
                                                                              (14 ac)                                                                                                                                                                       (36 ac)                                                                                                                                         RA - 89 ac (144)
                                   RES                            Exist.                                                                            RES                                                                                                  -243 ex. units
                                   (32 ac)
                                                                   RA
                                                                                                                                                    (8 ac)                                    Village Center                                                                                                                                                                                             Total                                             1,583 ac

                                                                                                                                                                  Center Street                Comm/MU                                                               Neighborhood                                                                                                                        **Existing Policy Analysis**
                                                                                                                                                                                                     (22 ac)                                                           Mixed Use                                                                                                                         1,583 ac - 587 (non-dev) = 996 remaining
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Allowed                                                                                                                          996 ac x 4 u/a (net) = 3,984 units
                                                                      AR                                                                            RES
                                      AR                                                                                                            (9 ac)
                                    (20 ac)
                                                                    (13 ac)
                                                                                                    RA
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1 Mixed Use Village Center




                                                                                                                                                                                                         2050 West / Geneva Road
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - Area listed as MDR to be required to have a




                                                                                                                                        2530 West
                                                                                                  (52 ac)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            mix of 4-5 housing types.
              Airport Compatible                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - Appropriate transition buffer to park.
               Industrial/Comm.                                                                                Exist. School                                                      RES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                - Commercial center to include additional




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          1600 West
                    (152 ac)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         residential component.
                                                                                                                  (10 ac)                                                        (45 ac)
                                              A1.10                                                                                                                                                                                             Infill
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     - Design standards to create a cohesive
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     community center.
                                              (70 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4 ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (12 units)                                                       Park                                                                                        2 Neighborhood Gateway
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               4 u/a                                  Exist. Park             (3 ac)                                                                                                 - LDR density with townhome or bungalow
                                                                                                     A1.10                                                                                                                                                                              (14 ac)                                                                                                                      court transitional density buffer at edges
                                                                                                     (68 ac)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         adjacent to R1.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Exist.                                                                                                                       - Highly encouraged Neighborhood MU
                                                                                                                                                       RES
                                                                                                                                                       (8 ac)                                                                                                                          School                                                                                                             3 LDR Node
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (13 ac)                                                                                                                      - Dry Creek required to be amenitized.
                                                                                                                                                                                                Neighborhood                                600 South
                                                                                                                                                                                                  Mixed Use                                                                                                                                                                                                          Airport Overlay
                                                                                                                                                                                                   Allowed
                                                                                          Airport                      Airport
                                                             Airport                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 100 Year Flood Area
                                                                                        Ind./Comm.                   Ind./Comm.
                                                           Ind./Comm.                                                       (27 ac)
                                                                 (38 ac)                    (44 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                               RES                                                                                                                           RES
                                                                                                                                                                              (56 ac)                                                                                                                       (60 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 RES




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      1100 West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                (80 ac)
                                                                                                                                                         Neighborhood
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  890 South                         Infill
                                                                                                                                                           Mixed Use
                                                                                            Airport                    Regional                             Allowed                                                                                                                                                                                               12 ac
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  RES                                                             (36 units)
                                                                                          Ind./Comm.                     Park                                                    RES                                                                                                              (38 ac)                                                           4 u/a
                                                                                                 (55 ac)                     (100 ac)                                           (27 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                                      LDR                                                           RA
                                                                                                                                                                LDR                                   (10 ac)                                                   (17 ac)                                                     Exist. Park
                                                                                                                                                                (10 ac)                                                                                                                                                           (21 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                          LDR        2
                                                                                                                                                                                        (18 ac) Neighborhood
                                                                                                                                                                                                 Mixed Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   LDR                                                                                                                      1150 South
                                                                                            Airport                                                 Trailhead                                     Allowed                          (7 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           RES                                                                              RA
                                                                                          Ind./Comm.                                                                                                                                                                                           RES                                      (10 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          (29 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              (22 ac)
                                                                                                  (36 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Infill                                        Exist. Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     RA                                                      ek                                                 8 ac                                                  (3 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    (10 ac)               3                          y   Cre                                                   (24 units)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         LDR                      Dr                                                             4 u/a
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Big




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          500 West
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        (24 ac)                                  RES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             (79 ac)                                                                                         Park
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TrailheadNeighborhood                                                                                                                                            (3 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Mixed Use
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Allowed


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LDR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (12 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Neighborhood           RES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mixed Use           (33 ac)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Lakev               Allowed
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     iew Pk
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 wy



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               LDR                                 COMM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               (21 ac)                                  (36 ac)


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Trailhead
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                COMM.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (30 ac)

20                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   21
     04          URBAN DESIGN                                                                                                                                                                      Southwest Neighborhoods Plan




     Currently, planning staff is working on drafting the Lakeview Parkway Design Corridor standards that could incorporate        Therefore, it is important that before its full completion, the parkway design be re-examined to see what deficiencies
     many of the design elements listed below. Coordination between various departments will need to occur in order for            or other improvements might be considered for the corridor to realize its gateway potential. Considerations should
     this section to be implemented.                                                                                               be given to detailing the parkway’s northern and eastern edges in terms of landscaping, building setbacks, walls,
                                                                                                                                   and other transitions to the adjoining land uses. Details should also include entryway signage for business park
                                                                                                                                   areas, and the adjoining residential neighborhoods

A. PUBLIC REALM

     STANDARD STREET LIGHTING AND ART
     Street lighting was installed along the south and west side of Lakeview Parkway as part of the recent construction of
     the roadway. To create a uniqueness to the area, the fixtures could have a detailing attached to each light post such
     as a bird or airplane depending on where they are along the corridor. This enhancement would give a uniqueness to
     the corridor and pay homage to where the corridor is located. These fixtures should be used on one side, if not both
     sides, of Lakeview Parkway and continue northward across the Provo River.

     LANDSCAPING
     Certain improvements along Lakeview Parkway should create a “parkway” feel. There is a center median that could
     be filled with trees and shrubs but currently is filled with rocks. Landscaping along the corridor should be of similar                                          EXAMPLE OF LAKEVIEW PARKWAY WITH LANDSCAPING
     species and design. As of October 2022 Provo City Staff is working on adding Lakeview Parkway as a design corridor to
     the Municipal Code. A common desire expressed by stakeholders in the area was to improve the street tree network.
     Many areas have been developed with insufficient parkstrip width to plant a tree, or the trees were simply never put in.         CENTER STREET CORRIDOR
     As streets are improved, or new development occurs, the incorporation of new street trees should be included as part             The entire length of Center Street as it runs through the Southwest Area, is already included within the Zoning
     of the project. Irrigation would need to be installed in the center median and parkway sections prior to installation            Ordinance’s adopted West Center Street Design Corridor. Current design corridor requirements refer to such
     of vegetation.                                                                                                                   items as: minimum building setbacks, landscape buffers, pedestrian amenities and streetscape standards, and
                                                                                                                                      standards for site and building design and building materials. Although the adopted corridor plan provides an
     UTILITY INFRASTRUCTURE                                                                                                           initial design standard, a more detailed plan should be developed and illustrated with adopted street cross-
                                                                                                                                      sections and design details based on, and more fully coordinated with the adjacent land uses.
     The placement of necessary utility infrastructure can play a large role in the aesthetic character of an area. Where
     feasible, any utility boxes should be located outside of highly visible areas. Specific priority should be given to the          GENEVA ROAD CORRIDOR
     visual impact power transmission lines and other utility fixtures have on the Lakeview Parkway and Center Street                 The widening and further improvement of Geneva Road has been planned for a number of years. The planned
     corridors. Efforts should be given to camouflage this infrastructure or to allow to become a canvas that local artists           cross section indicates two travel lanes in each direction, plus a center turn land. As that widening will have a
     may illustrate their work, pending any approval required.                                                                        major impact on the development of the proposed Village Center area, the specific design standards adopted
                                                                                                                                      for Geneva Road need to enhance rather than act as a barrier to the Village Center area. The City needs to work
                                                                                                                                      closely with the State and Mountainland Association of Governments in the development of the road standards
B. STREET CORRIDORS                                                                                                                   for this particular section of State Highway 114.

      The following lists the major street corridors within the Southwest area where specific street design standards should
      be developed, adopted and implemented, provide unifying design elements for the community and to incorporate              C. TRAILS
      Complete Street design that can be carried on to connecting streets.

      LAKEVIEW PARKWAY                                                                                                                BIG DRY CREEK
      Lakeview Parkway fulfills several previous goals of the City’s General Plan for the Southwest area. Besides its                 This area has the unique opportunity to have a trail adjacent to the creek connecting between Lakeview Parkway
      connection to the airport, the Parkway also provides a long-sought access into the southern portions of the                     and 1150 South. A trail would be constructed on the wast side of Big Dry Creek adjacent to a local street. No
      Southwest area. Future intersections will occur at 1600 West, 2050 West, and 2470 West. Determinations still need               sidewalk would be required on the west side of this local street due to the trail system. Final design details will be
      to be made regarding other possible connections to the parkway. The initial intent of the design for the parkway                assessed during the construction of this trail. On the next page illustrates a cross section of how this area should
      included creating an attractive gateway to the Southwest area and especially between the Airport and the city.                  be developed.
      Currently, only the southern/western lanes of the first phase of the Parkway have been fully improved, and the
      northern/eastern lanes will likely not be completed in full until significantly more development in the area occurs.


22                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      23
     04          URBAN DESIGN                                                                                                05           HISTORIC PRESERVATION                                         Southwest
                                                                                                                                                                                                         SOUTHWESTNeighborhoods Plan
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NEIGHBORHOODS PLAN




                                                                                                                               The original layout of the Southwest area remains unchanged throughout most of the neighborhood. Many wonderful
                                                                                                                               buildings that were constructed in the early years of the area remain. These are some of the defining characteristics of the
                                                                                                                               neighborhood and are worthy of historic preservation efforts to help ensure that Southwest area continues to be such a
                                                                                                                               coveted neighborhood in Provo.



                                                                                                                            A. IDENTIFICATION SURVEY
                                                                                                                               This area of the city has not been surveyed in many years. The last surveys were done in 2002 and 2007. An updated
                                                                                                                               Reconnaissance Level Survey (RLS) would indicate eligible properties and whether the creation of the “West Center Street
                                                                                                                               Historic District” would be justified. There are 34 properties in the Southwest area primarily along Center Street that could
                                                                                                                               be eligible for historic preservation based on 2002 and 2007 data; however, further research would be needed to verify the
         1150 South                                                                                                            historic nature of each of these properties.
         This will include a larger sidewalk that will function as a multi-use path on the north side of the street
         between Big Dry Creek and 2470 West where it terminates at the Regional Sports Park. Part of this trail
         will be on 1150 South, 2050 West (west side of the street between 600 South and Lakeview Parkway)                  B. REGOGNITION
         and 900 South (north side of this future street). Future alignment of the trail will be determined at the
         time of development. Below illustrates a cross section of how this area should be developed.                          Many people may be unaware that there are eligible historic homes in their neighborhood or that their home contribute
                                                                                                                               to a potential historic district. Efforts like a coordinated signage program would help people recognize them and gain an
                                                                                                                               appreciate and greater connection to the history of the neighborhood. The signs could be as simple as small markers adjacent
                                                                                                                               to the front sidewalks of historic houses that contain basic information about the house as well as a narrative of the design
                                                                                                                               and history of the house. Preserving and educating about history should be encouraged. A program of historic markers
                                                                                                                               should be implemented and coordinated with the city.sidential neighborhoods




D. FENCING
      For properties that are adjacent to a trail, the portion of the fence or hedge adjacent to the trail must be
      transparent for safety reasons. If a fence or hedge is greater than four feet in height, then the remainder of
      it must be at least 50% transparent.


E. GOALS AND OBJECTIVES
     1. Provide a high-quality entrance to the City through a well-designed and landscaped gateway are, including a sign.
     2. Draft a Lakeview Parkway design corridor standards.
        a. Identify current standards to guide future development.
        b. Develop a street tree planting program for already-developed areas where street trees are not in place.
     3. Identify areas where additional street lighting can improve safety.                                                                                                   PHOTO OF AN OLDER HOME ON CENTER STREET


     4. Develop and implement trails.




24                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       25
                  IMPLEMENTATION
     06           STRATEGIES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Southwest Neighborhoods Plan




     This section is to describe how this plan may be fulfilled and describe what City departments will be responsible for
     overseeing its fulfillment.

                                                                                                                                    D. IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
A. PROCESS                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Phase 1               Phase 2               Phase 3
                                                                                                                                                           Southwest Neighborhoods Plan Goals
     This document is a guide to be utilized by City and Neighborhood leaders, the development community, and the                                                                                                          Priority 1 Priority 2 Priority 1 Priority 2 Priority 1 Priority 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                             General
     residents working together to achieve the Plan’s ideas and visions in the development of the Southwest area. The               Adopt the Southwest Neighborhoods Plan (City Council)
     goals and objectives of the plan should be considered:                                                                         Remove Southwest Area Future Land Use Map from Appendicies (City Council)
                                                                                                                                    Revise Capital Improvements Plan (D.S., P.W., Admin.)
         » As often as development projects are proposed;                                                                           Fund on-going maintenance costs of additional parks (Parks, Admin.)
         » Annually to evaluate and report on the progress being made to achieve the stated goals and                                                                                                        Land Use
                                                                                                                                    Update General Plan for future land uses (D.S.)
           objectives; and,
                                                                                                                                    Amend zoning map to be consistent with the plan (D.S.)
         » Periodically to ensure the goals and objectives remain up-to-date and viable.                                            Develop and implement the expansion of existing parks (Parks)
                                                                                                                                                                                                           Urban Design
     It is only through this ongoing review and evaluation that the goals and objectives that this document can be fully            Install street lighting with detailing (Energy, D.S.)
     realized.                                                                                                                      Implement street trees (Energy, D.S.)
                                                                                                                                    Adopt the Lakeview Parkway design corridor standards (D.S., P.W.)
                                                                                                                                    Develop and implement trails (P.W., Parks)
                                                                                                                                                                                                       Historic Preservation
B. IMPLEMENTATION RESOURCES                                                                                                         Conduct an updated Reconnanissance Level Survey (RLS) of the area (D.S.)
                                                                                                                                    Publish a list of eligible historic structures (D.S.)
     Though not all-inclusive, the following means and resources could be available and utilized to achieve the
                                                                                                                                    Develop an inventory of historic features and design elements (D.S.)
     recommendations set forth in this document:                                                                                    Determine next steps based on RLS findings (D.S. and Landmarks Commission)
                                                                                                                                    Key = Development Services (D.S.), Public Works (P.W.), Administration (Admin), and Parks and Recreation (Parks)

     CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PLAN
     Any projects needing City funding related to the Southwest plan should be included in the City’s CIP, so budget
     allocations can be evaluated and prioritized.
     FUNDING PROGRAMS AND AGENCIES
     Funding programs and grants are available from federal, regional, and state agencies, as well as from philanthropic
     and non-governmental agencies to assist cities in the implementation of approved projects, especially when the
     projects involve connections or improvements to regional systems. The City should utilize these funding sources
     whenever possible.

     IMPROVEMENT DISTRICTS
     Consideration should be given to create improvement districts where a consolidated effort and broad improve would
     be advantageous.


C. AVAILABILITY
     To ensure the Southwest Neighborhoods Plan continues to be a guiding document in City planning, it is important to
     make it widely available and visible to City Administrators and the public. This will be an addendum to the General
     Plan and will be available on the City website and City staff will be readily available to help explain its contents to City
     and Neighborhood officials, the development community, and the general public.




26                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         27
PROVO CITY | Southwest Neighborhoods Plan
