                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                         Report of Action
                                                 November 08, 2023


ITEM #5        Tate Murphey requests Concept Plan approval for two new detached single family homes with
               accessory dwelling units in a proposed LDR (Low Density Residential) zone, located at 963 West 500
               North. Dixon Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20230003



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 08, 2023:


                                                    DENIED
On a vote of 3:3, the Planning Commission denied the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew South (to Approve)
Second By: Daniel Gonzales
Votes in Favor of Motion: Andrew South, Daniel Gonzales, Barbara DeSoto
Votes Against the Motion: Jonathon Hill, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.
•    New findings stated as basis of action taken by the Planning Commission or recommendation to the Municipal
     Council; Planning Commission determination is not generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
The Planning Commission also failed to recommend approval on the related rezone to LDR at the November 8, 2023
meeting (Item #6, PLRZ20220319)

PROPOSED OCCUPANCY
*3 Total Units
*Type of occupancy approved: Family
*Standard Land Use Code 1111

PROPOSED PARKING
*12 Total parking stalls required
*12 Total parking stalls provided
*4 Required parking stalls per unit

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Applies - referred applicant to Council Attorney.



                                                      Page 1 of 3
STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 2/23/2023.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Concerns from Dave Knecht and Sara Payton were sent to the Planning Commission prior to the hearing and
        included concerns with density, traffic, and parking.
    • An additional comment was made at the hearing with concerns about parking, traffic, and privacy.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Tate Murphey responded to questions from the Commission regarding affordability of the new units, parking
       design, and unit sizes. He also presented that homes would be stepped back from adjacent homes to the east and
       west, that a driveway would provide necessary access in and out of the homes, and that doing just one more home
       with amount of driveway and utilities would make it very expensive.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission discussed affordability of units, parking design, how many units would fit, and overall
       positives and negatives of the proposal.
   • A formal vote for concern on parking was supported by four (4) of the commissioners.
   • Additional concerns with layout and HOA fees were shared, but the Commission recognized the need for
       affordable housing and appreciated the amount of open space provided.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:
   • The vote to recommend approval failed by a tie vote of 3:3, with the dissenting votes giving reason of parking
       design and availability on the site.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

                                                        Page 2 of 3
See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours
   are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
