                                     Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                 November 11, 2020


Item # 11     Jake Black requests Concept Plan approval for a residential subdivision in a proposed R1.8 zone, located at
              35 S 2530 W. Provo Bay Neighborhood. Dustin Wright 801-852-6414 dwright@provo.org
              PLCP20200157



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
November 11, 2020:


                                                CONTINUED
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to November 18, 2020.


Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Brian Henrie
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Brian Henrie, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen, Dave Anderson
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.


 PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:

     •   Due to the late hour of the meeting, the Commission decided to continue this item to the front of the November
         18, 2020 Hearing.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services


 See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff
     Report to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the
     decision of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted
     in this Report of Action.

                                                       Page 1 of 2
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a
   public hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following
   a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by
   submitting an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and
   Neighborhood Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the
   Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

               BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                    Page 2 of 2
