                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    February 22, 2023


 *ITEM #1      Dudley & Associates requests a Zone Map Amendment from the MDR (Medium Density Residential)
               zone and A1 (Agricultural) zone to the PO (Professional Office) zone to allow for new office
               development, located approximately at 5515 N Edgewood Drive. Riverbottoms Neighborhood. Aaron
               Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20220005




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 22, 2023:


                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application,
 with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval: That a Development Agreement addressing staff concerns is fully agreed to and executed prior
 the updating the zoning map.

Motion By: Robert Knudsen
Second By: Jeff Whitlock
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Raleen Wahlin, Andrew South
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the PO Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The related Concept Plan (PLCP20220015) and Conditional Use Permit (PLCUP20220032) were approved at the
 February 22, 2023 Planning Commission meeting.

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • Applies - referred applicant to Council Attorney.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.


                                                        Page 1 of 3
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• A neighborhood meeting was held on 02/03/2022.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were not present or did not address the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Jason White gave an overview of the vision for the project area and noted that the phases will be several years
       apart.
   • Jamie Chapman shared multiple renderings for the project and detailed the architecture for the proposal.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Daniel Gonzales inquired of staff how the adjacent building heights of existing structures compared with the
       proposal.
   • Robert Knudsen confirmed with staff that the residential home to the south of the proposal was staying and would
       still have access to 5600 North and 5200 North.
   • The Commission commented on the history and context of the proposals and that there were not any concerns
       with these latest submissions.
   • The Commission discussed the height of the buildings, relating that the location is a good fit without a lot of
       residential nearby to affected and that the landscaping against University Avenue will help to buffer the buildings.
       They also complimented the architecture as interesting and a good variety, stating that the plans offer quality
       offices that may keep new businesses in Provo.
   • Andrew South confirmed with staff that no precedent is being established in the area, as adjacent sites are in
       different zones and have different rules for height.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services


See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

                                                       Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS



                                                       EXHIBIT A

Commencing at a point located South 00°44’56” East along the Section line 9.97 feet and West 27.26 feet from the
Southeast corner of Section 12, Township 6 South, Range 2 East, Salt Lake Base and Meridian: thence North 00°04’25”
East 812.82 feet; thence North 26°56’16” East 43.77 feet more or less to the south side of 5600 North Street; thence North
75°09’23” East along 5600 North Street 585.73 feet to the beginning of a non-tangential curve along the westerly boundary
line of University Ave, said curve turning to the right through an angle of 10°10’43”, having a radios of 5706.42 feet, and
whose long chord bears South 05°30’31” West 1012.3995 feet to a point of intersection with a non-tangential line; thence
North 89°19’07” West 489.91 feet to the point of beginning.

Area = 11.71 acres




                                                       Page 3 of 3
