                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 10, 2021


 ITEM 2       Alan Poulson requests Project Plan approval for renovation of the commercial building located at 655 E
              300 S in the General Commercial (CG) zone. Maeser Neighborhood. Dustin Wright (801) 852-6414
              dwright@provo.org PLPPA20200423



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of March
10, 2021:


                                                  CONTINUED
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to March 24, 2021.

Motion By: Laurie Urquiaga
Second By: Dave Anderson
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Dave Anderson, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Brian Henrie, Robert Knudsen,
Deborah Jensen, Russ Philips.
Dave Anderson was present as Chair.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING
 • A neighborhood meeting was held.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • The meeting was opened for public comment and there were no comments made so the public comment was closed.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:




                                                        Page 1 of 2
•   The business that would operate from the site is an architectural woodworking business that has a sales floor, office
    space, and assembly of their product.
•   A neighborhood meeting was held, and they hand delivered notice to neighbors within 1,000 feet.
•   They do cabinet work and architectural woodwork.
•   There is a similar dust collection system that SLCC has adjacent to residential zoning.
•   The hours of operation would be 7a.m.-5p.m. Monday-Friday.
•   There was a neighborhood meeting and there was a positive response for their business to go to this location. The dust
    collection system was discussed with the neighbors.
•   The system can’t be located inside the building because the intake would reduce the fresh air in the building.
•   There is typically less than one delivery a week which is much less that the grocery store.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• The noise levels of the dust collector were discussed, and staff was asked to work with the applicant to find the decibel
   levels from the manufacturer and see if they would comply with the City noise ordinance.
• The use of the proposed business was discussed to see if it fit in the zone. The SLU code was 5700 and 5711 and staff
   was asked to examine this to see if this proposed business would be permissible.
• The Planning Commission wanted to better understand what the applicant would do to reduce the noise levels and
   how effective those measures would be in reducing the sound.
• The Planning Commission explored the idea of locating the dust collection unit to the southeast of the existing
   building so that it would not be located near the residential homes on 200 South.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
