                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   December 07, 2022


*ITEM #4       Keaton Morton requests a General Plan Map Amendment from a Residential (R) designation to a
               Airport Related (AR) designation in order to develop an industrial park, located approximately at 3450
               West Center Street. Fort Utah Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 PLGPA20220334



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
December 07, 2022:


                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 4:1, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Raleen Whalin
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Raleen Whalin, Robert Knudsen, Melissa Kendall, Andrew South
Votes Against the Motion: Daniel Gonzales
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

•   Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
    noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE AMENDED
The property to be amended to the AR General Plan designation is described in the attached Exhibit A.

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
• Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.
• May apply with future approvals.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
   • Bill Peperone added some historical context for the current General Plan designation resting in the owners interest
       at the time the Southwest Future Land Use Map was adopted, but indicated that those feelings have changed over
       time.
   • David Day added that the lack of utility infrastructure at this location should be noted, but that by the time the
       project comes forward, there should be capacity.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

                                                        Page 1 of 4
NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• Neighborhood meetings were held in July 2022.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was present /addressed the Planning Commission during the public hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Jonathon Hill (neighborhood chair) gave an overview of the public process that he had with the developer and the
        neighborhood, indicating that overall the committee and neighbors were supportive of the change.
    • Ben Holland spoke on his support for the amendment but hoped that there could be different uses against the
        river.
    • Mikel Hines stated that she does not support the proposal, that the area should be protected for the safety and
        natural environment. She also stated that West Center street is not a busy road and should be residential.
    • Shawn Miller said as long as the dike and trees are protected, the change would be acceptable.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Dave Morton informed the commission on his plans for the area, stating reasons for the change similar to that in
       the staff report. He believes he can make better use of the river with the proposed warehouse uses and would be
       happy to work with the neighbors on finding the best amenities to have along the riverbank.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The commission spoke about future plans along the river including the River Delta project from the Federal
       government.
   • Daniel Gonzales indicated trouble trying to find balance between residential uses and airport support uses in the
       area and wondered if there could be a commercial node somewhere close to this property.
   • There was a lot of discussion about the riverbank treatment and the hope to preserve as much vegetation as
       possible and identify the best way to amenitize that boundary.
   • The commission stated that the change supports some of the General Plan goals and that having a flight path go
       through this property is a major factor in supporting the change from residential.
   • There are issues to be addressed, but will be worked out in the Rezone and Concept Plan proposals.
   • Melissa Kendall noted that the property to the south is already planned for airport related uses.
   • There was additional discussion on vegetation along the river and what it would look like after the River Delta
       project.




               Planning Commission Chair




            Director of Development Services
                                                     Page 2 of 4
See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 4
EXHIBIT A




Page 4 of 4
