                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                   December 11, 2024

     ITEM 2*    Provo City Public Works Department requests Ordinance Text Amendments to Section 15.03.020(3) to
                update 2024 standards to 2025 standards. Citywide Application. David Day (801) 852-6735
                dday@provo.org PLOTA20240310


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
December 11, 2024:
                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Melissa Kendall
Votes in Favor of Motion: Anne Allen, Andrew South, Melissa Kendall, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Barbara DeSoto,
Adam Shin
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

 •     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
       noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. David Day gave an overview of the annual changes and highlighted some of the more significant
changes.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood District Chairs received notification.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • This item was City-wide or affected multiple neighborhoods.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:

                                                        Page 1 of 3
    •   David Day responded to Planning Commission questions and concerns regarding what standards are used for road
        design.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Adam Shin and Barbara DeSoto noted a desire to create more standards (referencing NACTO) to help safety in
       the city by incorporating better design regulations into city code and policies.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
Exhibit A




Page 3 of 3
