                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                          Report of Action
                                                     April 22, 2020


*Item 7       The Provo City Community and Neighborhood Services Department requests amendments to Section
              14.34.295 Downtown Development Design Standards to clarify architectural requirements in the Downtown
              Zones. Citywide application. Robert Mills rmills@provo.org (801) 852-6407 16-0005OA




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of April
22, 2020:


                                          Recommend Approval
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: David Anderson
Votes in Favor of Motion: David Anderson, Andrew Howard, Deborah Jensen, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Laurie
Urquiaga, and Maria Winden
Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
following:
    • Staff reminded the Planning Commission members that they had previously recommended approval of the
        Downtown Development Design Standards at the September 11, 2019 hearing.
    • Staff has made a few revisions since that time that warranted sending the amendment back to the planning
        commission members. Those revisions include:
            o Exceptions to the standards can be approved by the Development Services Director based on specific
                criteria and after being considered by the Design Review Committee.
            o Specific requirements for Pedestrian Building Entrances for office buildings has been added.


NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• No neighborhood input was received.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:

No comments were received.
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • There was some discussion among Planning Commission members regarding the proposed language and that it
       wasn’t as refined as some would like. Staff suggested that it might be best to recommend approval of the new
       standards with the idea that, it’s better than the existing standards and then we can work with the Planning
       Commission to refine it even further.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing; the
    Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
   application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the Community and Neighborhood Services
   Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
