                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    October 12, 2022


ITEM #2         Joel Pilling requests Project Plan approval for three new warehouses in a proposed AI (Airport
                Industrial) zone, located at 652 S Lakeview Pkwy. Provo Bay Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801)
                852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLPPA20220018



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
October 12, 2022:


                               APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

Conditions of Approval:
1. That so long as there is a residential use against the property, there shall be:
        a. A berm maintained during the construction period;
        b. A retaining wall against residential property;
        c. A fence against the residential property; and
        d. Downward lighting as to not bleed onto adjacent land.

Motion By: Raleen Wahlin
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Raleen Wahlin, Robert Knudsen, Andrew South, Daniel Gonzales, Lisa Jensen
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
The associated Rezone for this project was Item #1 on the October 12th Planning Commission meeting (PLRZ20220022).

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
281 Total parking stalls required

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.

                                                        Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
• Neighbors or other interested parties were present or addressed the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following:
    • Steven Pennion lives next to the property and stated concerns with the barrier between his property and the
        proposed project, water runoff, and lighting bleeding into his property.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Joel Pilling stated he intends to have clean tenants on the property and that there is a high demand for this type of
       building. He also responded to the neighbors’ concerns and stated he plans to build a berm during construction
       and build a retaining wall and fence with the project. He also stated that he will be using downward lights that
       won’t bleed onto adjacent land.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Daniel Gonzales asked about the parking for the site, whether it was too much or not enough.
   • There was discussion regarding other uses for the site and how those would be handled with business license
       reviews.
   • The Commission thought that the request made sense, it meets the General Plan for that area, and is an attractive
       development. Access to the site was discussed and seemed to work well with the cul-de-sac to the south of the
       property.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS


                                                       Page 2 of 2
