                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      May 25, 2022


ITEM #3*      The Development Services Department requests an Ordinance Text Amendment to add the Mixed-Use
              Zones as Chapter 14.14D and Signs Permitted in the Mixed-Use Zones as Section 14.38.106 to the Provo
              City Code and amend related development standards. Citywide application. Javin Weaver (801) 852-
              6413 jweaver@provo.org PLOTA20220144


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of May
25, 2022:


                                    RECOMMEND APPROVAL
On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Daniel Gonzales
Second By: Dave Anderson
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, and Melissa
Kendall
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A, Exhibit B, Exhibit C, Exhibit D, Exhibit E, and Exhibit F.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
   • Staff explained the new format of the zone chapter, which includes two zones like the Airport Zones format.
   • Staff explained the design standards encourage a higher quality of development as it occurs.
   • Staff explained how the zones—which are primarily residential in nature—allow commercial as a secondary use.
   • The proposed Mixed-Use Zones further the goals of the General Plan, Neighborhood Plans (Downtown, Franklin,
       Maeser, Southeast) and the Southwest Future Lane Use Map.
   • Staff explained the need for two mixed-use zones with differing levels of intensity to meet the needs of various
       development situations, proposals, etc.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• Citywide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• This item has City-wide impact or affects multiple neighborhoods.
• There was no neighborhood chair or public comment made.
                                                   Page 1 of 26
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Melissa Kendall asked the locations on the neighborhood plans where mixed-use zones are designated on future land
   use maps.
• Lisa Jensen asked staff to clarify about the conversion of properties, design standards, and the sign code.
• Lisa Jensen praised the creation of these zones, as they will assist staff and planning commission with assessing future
   development plans and provide a clear direction of what is required.
• Laurie Urquiaga praised the staff for creating these zones.




                Planning Commission Chair




             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 26
 EXHIBIT A

                                                    Chapter 14.14D
                                                    Mixed-Use Zones

14.14D.010.     Purpose and Objectives.
14.14D.020.     Permitted Uses.
14.14D.030.     Conversion of Properties
14.14D.040.     Lot Standards.
14.14D.050.     Prior Created Lots.
14.14D.060.     Yard Requirements.
14.14D.070.     Projections.
14.14D.080.     Building Height.
14.14D.090.     Minimum Residential Unit Size.
14.14D.100.     Minimum Habitable Main Floor Depth.
14.14D.110.     Parking, Loading, and Access.
14.14D.120.     Amenities and Landscaping.
14.14D.130.     Design Standards.
14.14D.140.     Project Plan Approval.
14.14D.150.     Other Requirements.

14.14D.010. Purpose and Objectives.
Mixed-use development combines two or more types of land use into a building or set of buildings that are physically
and functionally integrated and mutually supporting. This can be some combination of residential, commercial, office,
institutional, or other land uses. Mixed use areas often encompass the main street/downtown, activity center, or
commercial corridor of a local community, district, or neighborhood node. For purposes of consolidation, the
requirements for the Mixed-Use (MU) zone and the Neighborhood Mixed-Use (NMU) zone have been drafted into one
chapter. The purpose of each mixed-use zone is described below:

(1) The Mixed-Use (MU) zone is established to provide a high-quality urban development that is pedestrian-friendly and
complementary to the surrounding area. The permitted uses and development standards are intended to encourage
redevelopment of land in order to provide a mix of residential and commercial uses where property values are high and
demolition is viable. Uses in this zone should not compete with Downtown, but should provide similar types of uses
incorporated into the design.

(2) The Neighborhood Mixed-Use (NMU) zone is established to provide a neighborhood center that respects the single-
family residential character and can offer a range of uses. The permitted uses and development standards are intended
to encourage redevelopment of land in order to provide a mix of residential and commercial uses where property values
are high and demolition is viable. Uses in this zone should not compete with Downtown or a shopping center, but
should provide neighborhood scale support type uses, incorporated into a mixed-use design.

(3) The term “Mixed-use zones” in this Chapter refers to both the Mixed-Use zone and the Neighborhood Mixed-Use
zone, but does not refer to other zones described as mixed-use in other chapters of this Code.

14.14D.020. Permitted Uses.
(1) Permitted Principal Uses. The following principal uses listed in Table 14.14D.1, and no others, are permitted in the
Mixed-Use zones:
                                                       Page 3 of 26
                             Table 14.14D.1 – Permitted Uses in Mixed-Use Zones
Key: P = Permitted, C = Conditional, N = Not Permitted
Uses                                                        MU NMU Standards/Additional Info
The following uses are permitted in the Mixed-Use zones without stipulation:
Apartments or condominiums with a minimum                   P       P
10,000sf commercial component included
Assisted living facilities                                  P       P      Subject to the standards of
                                                                           Section 14.34.470
Live-Work dwelling units (excluded in the 10,000sf          P       P
commercial component in apartments or
condominiums)
One-family dwelling – attached (townhomes), not to          P       P
exceed eight (8) units (except when adjacent to RC and
R1 zones)
Police protection and related services, branch (office      P       P
only)
Residential facilities for the elderly or disabled          P       P      Subject to the standards of
                                                                           Section 14.34.230
Religious activities                                        P       P
Utility right-of-way                                        P       P
The following residential uses are permitted in the Mixed-Use zones only when buildings or portions of
buildings are located directly adjacent to properties in the RC or R1 zone:
One-family dwelling – attached (townhomes), not to          P       N
exceed four (4) units
One-family dwelling – detached                              N       P
Two-family dwelling                                         N       P      Subject to the standards of
                                                                           Section 14.34.340
The following residential uses are permitted as a second story to a commercial or other nonresidential
use:
Apartments and condominiums                                 P       P
One-family dwelling                                         P       P
The following uses are permitted as part of a mixed-use development within the same building:
Arts and cultural activities                                P       P
Banks                                                       P       P      No drive thru in NMU
Bed and breakfast                                           N       C      Subject to the standards of
                                                                           Section 14.34.250
Day care services                                           C       C      Subject to the standards of
                                                                           Section 14.34.250
Eating places, restaurants (no drive through)               P       P
General retail                                              P       P
Medical clinic                                              P       N
Personal services (excluding funeral parlors,               P       P
cemeteries, and crematories)
Pharmacy                                                    P       P
Postal services                                             P       P
Professional office                                         P       P
Recreational activities                                     P       P

                                                    Page 4 of 26
 Variety stores                                             P          P

(2) Permitted Accessory Uses. Accessory uses and structures are permitted in the Mixed-Use zones; provided they are
incidental to and do not substantially alter the character of the permitted principal use or structure. Such permitted
accessory uses and structures include, but are not limited to, the following:

        (a) Accessory buildings such as garages and similar structures which are customarily used in conjunction with
        and incidental to a principal use or structure;

        (b) Swimming pools and incidental accessory structures subject to the standards of Section          14.34.210;

        (c) Home Occupations subject to the regulations of Chapter 14.41;

        (d) Storage of materials used to construct a building, including the contractor’s temporary office;
        provided, that such use is on the building site or immediately adjacent thereto; and provided       further, that
such use shall be permitted only during the construction period and thirty (30) days       thereafter;

        (e) Household pets as defined in Chapter 8.02; provided, that no more than two (2) dogs and two (2) cats six (6)
        months of age or older shall be kept at any residence or commercial establishment at any time.

(3) Uses Within Buildings. All uses established in the Mixed-Use zones shall be conducted entirely within a fully-enclosed
building except those uses deemed by the Planning Commission, through the granting of a conditional use permit, to be
customarily and appropriately conducted in the open. Uses customarily deemed to be conducted in the open may
include, but would not be limited to, public assembly, live entertainment, etc. Open storage within view of a public
street or space shall be prohibited. This is not applicable to swimming pools.

14.14D.030. Conversion of Properties.
(1) A building originally constructed as a one-family or two-family dwelling located on a lot or parcel may be converted
to a professional office, eating places, personal services or general retail. This Section is intended to encourage
preservation of older established homes that contribute substantially to the character of the surrounding
neighborhoods.

(2) The conversion of a building from residential to professional office, eating places, personal services or general retail
use shall be subject to the following:

        (a) One (1) dwelling unit may be located in a building converted to a pr professional office, eating places,
        personal services or general retail use. A residential unit may be located in a basement or second level space and
        not on the main building level;

        (b) The parking standards in Chapter 14.37 for the proposed uses shall be satisfied

        (c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Title, a rear yard may be covered in its entirety in asphalt,
        concrete, or other material as specified in Section 14.37.090, to satisfy parking requirements except as follows:

                  (i) Each structure shall provide perimeter landscaping at a minimum of four (4) feet in width between
                  the parking lot and each abutting property occupied by a residential use;



                                                        Page 5 of 26
               (ii) A decorative metal or masonry fence shall be provided between the parking lot and each abutting
               property occupied by a one or two-family residential use. Vertical, hedge-forming vegetation and one
               (1) tree per thirty (30) feet shall be provided along the entire length of such fence. The Design Review
               Committee may approve alternative or existing fence material based on a finding that the alternative
               materials will result in an adequate transition between the professional office, eating places, personal
               services or general retail and abutting residential uses;

               (iii) Two hundred (200) square feet of usable open space shall be provided in the rear yard if a dwelling
               unit exists in the building. Usable open space may consist of landscaping, a patio or similar amenity for
               building tenants; and

       (d) The applicant shall maintain but not change the exterior character of the building while occupied by a
       professional office, eating places, personal services, or general retail use, unless the exterior modifications are
       approved by the Design Review Committee. The Committee shall review such modifications for compatibility
       with the building’s original design and materials;

       (e) Building expansion or enlargement for professional office, eating places, personal services, or general retail
       use, shall not exceed twenty-five (25) percent of the first-floor square footage and enlargements shall not
       include an increase in building height. Any expansion or enlargement shall be approved by the Design Review
       Committee. The Committee shall review the expansion for compatibility with the building’s original design and
       materials;

       (f) A building permit shall be obtained and building code requirements for the change of use must be satisfied;
       and

       (g) The professional office, eating places, personal services or general retail use shall be discontinued and all
       conforming or nonconforming rights shall expire upon demolition of the building; and

       h) This section (14.14D.030) shall not apply to a building constructed after November 11, 2008.

14.14D.040. Lot Standards.
Lots within the Mixed-Use zones must be developed according to the following standards listed in Table 14.14D.2:

                        Table 14.14D.2 – Lot Standards
 Lot Standards                                 MU                     NMU
 Minimum Lot Area
    One Family Detached                         Not applicable        6,000 SF
    Twin Home/Duplex                            Not applicable        8,000 SF
    One-Family Attached                         10,000 SF             10,000 SF
    Commercial/Mixed-Use                        20,000 SF             20,000 SF
 Minimum Lot Frontage                           90 feet               35 feet
 Minimum Lot Width                              90 feet               40 feet
 Minimum Lot Width Corner Lot                   90 feet               50 feet
 Minimum Lot Depth                              90 feet               90 feet
 Max Lot Coverage                               No maximum            60%

14.14D.050. Prior Created Lots.


                                                       Page 6 of 26
Lots or parcels of land which were created prior to December 12, 1974, shall not be denied a building permit for a single-
family dwelling solely for the reason of nonconformance with the parcel requirements of this Chapter.

14.14D.060. Yard Requirements.
Yard requirements must be met as listed in Table 14.14D.3 (measured from the property line):

                           Table 14.14D.3 – Yard Requirements
                                           MU                        NMU
                                 Minimum       Maximum       Minimum    Maximum
 Front Yard                    0 feet         10 feet      10 feet     20 feet
 Side Yard, corner lot         0 feet         10 feet      10 feet     20 feet
 Side Yard, interior – One     N/A            N/A          10 feet     No
 family detached                                                       maximum
 Side Yard, interior – All     No             10 feet      No          10 feet
 other buildings               minimum                     requirement
 Rear                          20 feet        No           20 feet     No
                                              maximum                  maximum
 Driveway Access               16 feet        30 feet      10 feet     24 feet

(1) Courtyards: Front and street side yards may be extended beyond setback limitations for a public space upon
recommendation by the Design Review Committee. The approving body must make the following findings in order to
allow extension beyond setback limitations:

        (a) That the proposed courtyard will serve a legitimate public purpose;

         (b) That the design of the courtyard enhances the public realm and will reasonably                      attract
daily activity;

         (c) That the courtyard is not raised more than two feet above the street sidewalk grade;
         (d) That landscaping or other elements do not obscure more that twenty-five percent                     (25%)
of the street view into the setback.

14.14D.070. Projections.
(1) The following structures may be erected on or project into any required yard provided it does not obstruct a required
driveway:

        (a) Fences and walls in conformance with Provo City Code;

        (b) Landscaping elements including trees, shrubs, and other planting material; and

        (c) Necessary appurtenances for utility service, subject to City approval.

(2) In the MU zone only, buildings may project over required driveways provided that a minimum of ten (10) feet of
clearance is provided for vehicular access.

(3) The structures listed below may project into a minimum front or rear yard not more than four (4) feet, and into a
minimum side yard not more than two (2) feet.


                                                       Page 7 of 26
        (a) Cornices, eaves, belt courses, sills, buttresses or other similar architectural features;

         (b) Fireplace structures and bays, provided they are not wider than eight (8) feet and are          generally
parallel to the wall of which they are a part; and

        (c) Stairways, balconies, door stops, fire escapes, awnings and planter boxes or masonry planters.

(4) In the MU zone only, balconies may project into the street right-of-way a maximum of five (5) feet so long as a
minimum of ten (10) feet of vertical clearance is provided between the sidewalk and the projecting balcony.

14.14D.080. Building Height.
Building height requirements must be met as listed below in Table 14.14D.4.

                                     Table 14.14D.4 – Building Height
                                                   MU                                    NMU
 Total Maximum Building Height       65 feet                          38 feet
 Minimum Number of Building          2 stories
 Stories
 Maximum Number of Building           2 stories
 Stories adjacent to R1 or RC
 zones and within fifty (50) feet
 of the zone boundary
 Maximum Number of Building           5 stories                            3 stories
 Stories all other buildings
 Maximum Parapet/Cornice:             5 feet
 Minimum First Story Height for       14 feet floor to ceiling
 Commercial Uses
 Maximum First Story Height           20 feet floor to ceiling
 Maximum Main Floor Elevation         30 inches above lowest adjacent curb elevation

(1) Roof mounted mechanical equipment shall be permitted so long as it is completely screened behind an architectural
feature of the primary structure.

(2) See Section 14.34.090 Height Limitations – Exceptions for additional requirements that must be adhered to.

14.14D.090. Minimum Residential Unit Size.
(1) Each development that includes a residential use must provide a minimum unit size of no less than five hundred
(500) square feet. This requirement shall not apply to institutional housing units (i.e., elderly housing, assisted living
facilities, etc.). There shall be an equal amount of studio and one (1) bedroom units in apartments and condominium
uses.

14.14D.100. Minimum Habitable Main Floor Depth.
(1) Each structure in the Mixed-Use zones fronting a public street must have a minimum habitable main floor depth of
thirty (30) feet along the entire street frontage except for along permitted side yards and driveway approaches.

(2) In the case of a corner lot that abuts two (2) primary streets, driveway access to the property may be permitted from
one (1) of the primary street frontages subject to approval by the City Engineer and the Design Review Committee.


                                                         Page 8 of 26
14.14D.110. Parking, Loading, and Access.
(1) Each lot or parcel in the Mixed-Use zones need only seventy-five (75%) percent of the required off-street parking as
set forth in Chapter 14.37.

(2) Shared use of parking may be allowed if the Planning Commissions deems it suitable. A parking study is required if
seeking this option.

(3) Parking must be located behind the main building. In no case may parking be located between the building and a
public street.

(4) A parking agreement may be entered into with a property owner who owns a parking garage within one (1) block of
the development to supplement the required parking. This agreement must be notarized and recorded at Utah County.

(5) Structured parking is not permitted above the minimum habitable floor area along primary streets.

(6) At grade parking shall be wrapped by habitable space except at entrance and exit points.

14.14D.120. Amenities and Landscaping.
(1) Mixed-Use Zone (MU). In any new project consisting of twenty (20) or more residential units, an area equivalent to
twenty percent (20%) or more of the residential gross floor area must be developed in recreational amenities, such as a
common clubhouse, gym, pool, rooftop garden, or other amenity. Landscaping in front and streetside yards, the fifteen
(15) foot minimum facade setback, and other required areas (such as distance provisions required by the International
Building Code) shall not be calculated towards meeting this provision. Only fifty percent (50%) of the required
recreational amenity space may be located outdoors at the ground floor level. Any open space counting towards this
requirement must be massed or accumulated to be functional as a recreational amenity or gathering space.

(2) Neighborhood Mixed-Use Zone (NMU). In any new project consisting of ten (10) or more residential units, an area
equivalent to ten percent (10%) or more of the gross lot area must be developed in residential amenities, such as a
common clubhouse, gym, pool, roof-top garden, or other amenity. Amenities that are enclosed may count towards
meeting this provision. Landscaping within the required setbacks shall not be calculated towards meeting this provision.
Any open space counting towards this requirement must be massed or accumulated to be functional as a recreational
amenity or gathering space.

14.14D.130. Design Standards.
(1) All buildings must follow the standards set forth in Section 14.34.287.

(2) Horizonal mixed-use is not permitted. The Development Services Director or designee may modify this requirement
on findings that the proposed development satisfies the intent of the Mixed-Use zones.

(3) Each unit shall include a kitchen (sink, stove, oven, dishwasher, and built-in cabinets), bathroom, closet adequate for
storage of items.

(4) There must be an equal amount of studio and one (1) bedroom units in apartments and condominium uses.

14.14D.140. Project Plan Approval.
See Sections 15.03.300 and 15.03.310.

14.14D.150. Other Requirements.
(1) Signs (see Chapter 14.38).
                                                       Page 9 of 26
(2) Landscaping (see Chapter 15.20).

(3) Trash storage and location.
        (a) All trash storage areas must be designed according to the standards of Section 14.34.080 – Trash Storage,
        except the following provisions shall prevail:

                (i) Trash storage container enclosures must not be located between a building and any primary or
                secondary street right-of-way. A conditional use permit under the provisions of Section 14.34.080
                cannot be issued to allow trash storage within a front or street side yard; and

                (ii) Trash storage containers shall be located behind a principal building (accessed via a driveway, alley
                or other internal block right-of-way). If this is not possible due to site constraints, trash storage
                containers may be enclosed within a required habitable floor area adjacent to a secondary street, if:

                    (A) It is completely enclosed within the building; and

                    (B) A one hundred per cent (100%) opaque lockable garage door or other equivalent, that
                    measures no more than ten (10) feet in width and eight (8) feet in height is provided.

(4) Fencing (see Section 14.34.500), no chain-link fencing shall be permitted in the Mixed-Use zones.

(5) Sidewalk Cafes (see Section 14.34.480).

(6) Canopies and Marquees (see Section 14.34.490).

(7) Temporary uses are not permitted.

(8) Distance Between Buildings. There is no requirement for distance between buildings, except as regulated by the
International Building Code.




                                                      Page 10 of 26
EXHIBIT B

14.38.106
Signs Permitted in Mixed-Use (MU, NMU) Zones.

Signs within the Mixed-Use (MU) and Neighborhood Mixed-Use (NMU) zones shall be regulated by the
following provisions:

(1) Freestanding Signs Under Five (5) Feet in Height (MU zone only). On-premises freestanding signs five (5) feet
or less in height shall meet the following requirements:

       (a) Area. Section 14.38.120, Provo City Code.

       (b) Number. There may be one (1) such sign for each frontage of the property, plus one (1) additional
       sign for each one hundred (100) foot increment of said frontage in excess of one hundred (100) feet.
       Said signs shall be placed no closer than fifty (50) feet apart. In the case of a parcel of property having
       multiple occupancies with a common frontage, the frontage shall be deemed to be that of the entire
       commonly used parcel of property and not the frontage of the individual business or occupancies.

(2) Wall signs shall comply with the following requirements:

    (a) Ground level businesses with individual front door entrances fronting public streets.

        (i) Number. One (1) sign per business storefront.

        (ii) Area. Two (2) square feet of sign for each foot of linear building facade.

        (iii) Location. Sign shall be located on the first or second story facade.

        (iv) Projection. Signs shall not project more than eighteen (18) inches from the facade.

        (v) Illumination. Internal or external illumination is permitted. Externally lit signs shall be illuminated
        only with stationary, shielded light sources directed solely onto the sign without causing glare.

    (b) Building directory signs:

        (i) May be located on an exterior wall next to a public entrance or within the common entrance of
        the building.

        (ii) If located on an exterior wall, such directory signs shall not exceed nine (9) square feet and copy
        shall not exceed one (1) inch in height.

                                                   Page 11 of 26
    (iii) One (1) directory sign for each building facade with a public entrance is permitted.

(c) Building identification signs for buildings three (3) to four (4) stories in height:

    (i) Number. One (1) sign per building facade consisting of individual letters (signs shall not consist of
    sign cabinets). No building shall be deemed to have more than four (4) facades.

    (ii) Area. Two (2) square feet of sign for each linear foot of building facade.

    (iii) Location. Shall be located on the top story of the building.

    (iv) Projection. Sign shall not project greater than eighteen (18) inches from the facade.

    (v) Illumination. Internal or external illumination is permitted. Externally lit signs shall be illuminated
    only with stationary, shielded light sources directed solely onto the sign without causing glare.

    (vi) Size of Lettering. Letters are limited to two (2) feet in height.

(d) Building identification signs for buildings greater than five (5) stories in height:

    (i) Number. One (1) per building facade consisting of individual letters (signs shall not consist of sign
    cabinets). No building shall be deemed to have more than four (4) facades.

    (ii) Area. Four (4) square feet of sign for each linear foot of building facade.

    (iii) Location. Shall be located on one of the top two (2) stories and not project above the wall line.

    (iv) Projection. Sign may not project greater than eighteen (18) inches from the facade.

    (v) Illumination. Internal or external illumination is permitted. Externally lit signs shall be illuminated
    only with stationary, shielded light sources directed solely onto the sign without causing glare.

    (vi) Size of Lettering. Letters shall not exceed four (4) feet in height.

(e) Tenant Identification Signs.

    (i) Number.

         (A) For buildings two (2) to four (4) stories in height: one (1) sign per building facade facing a
         public street.

         (B) For buildings five (5) stories or greater in height: two (2) signs per building facade facing a
         public street.
                                                Page 12 of 26
         (ii) Type. Signs shall consist of individual letters or logos (signs shall not consist of sign cabinets).

         (iii) Area. The sign shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet in area.

         (iv) Location. The sign shall be located on the story immediately below the building step-back, if
         present, on the second floor of a two (2) story building, or below the top floor of a building greater
         than two (2) stories in height.

         (v) Projection. Sign shall not project greater than eighteen (18) inches from the facade.

         (vi) Illumination. Internal and external illumination is permitted. Externally lit signs shall be
         illuminated only with stationary, shielded light sources directed solely onto the sign without causing
         glare.

         (vii) Size of Lettering. Letters shall not exceed three (3) feet in height.

(3) Awning Signs. One (1) sign shall be permitted on each awning located over a first floor window or door
subject to the following restrictions:

    (a) Area. A maximum of one (1) square foot of sign may be installed on each lineal foot of awning.

    (b) Location. Signs must be located on the vertical valence of the awning that directly faces a public street
    or right-of-way and must consist of graphics that are no more than twelve (12) inches in height.

    (c) Projection. Awnings may project a maximum of six (6) feet from the property line into the public right-
    of-way.

(4) New Construction Signs. One (1) sign shall be permitted along each street frontage of a new construction
project subject to the following restrictions:

    (a) Area. Signs shall not exceed sixty-four (64) square feet in area.

    (b) Height. The maximum height shall not exceed twelve (12) feet from the natural grade of the lot.

    (c) Projection. Signs shall not project over the property line into the public right-of-way.

    (d) New construction signs must be removed prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the
    new project.

(5) Monument Signs. One (1) sign shall be permitted in the landscaped front yard or street side yard of any
property with following restrictions:


                                                     Page 13 of 26
    (a) Area. Signs for single tenant properties shall not exceed fifty (50) square feet. Signs for properties with
    more than one (1) tenant may have an additional ten (10) feet of sign for each additional tenant, up to one
    hundred (100) square foot maximum size.

    (b) Height. The maximum height shall not exceed five (5) feet.

    (c) Projection. Signs shall not project over the property line into the public right-of-way.

    (d) Design. Signs shall be of a similar material and architecturally compatible with the main building.

(6) A-Frame Signs. One (1) A-frame sign shall be permitted for each ground level business with an individual
front door entrance fronting a public street.

    (a) Size. Maximum sign face size shall be twenty-four (24) inches wide and thirty-six (36) inches tall.
    Maximum sign stand frame size shall be twenty-seven (27) inches wide and forty-seven (47) inches tall
    when closed with a maximum depth of three (3) feet when opened.

    (b) Sign Type. Sign faces shall be flat and lie in plane with the sign stand frame. Signs shall not be
    electrified or lighted in any manner.

    (c) Location. The sign shall be located immediately in front of and between the side walls of the
    associated business. The sign shall be located immediately adjacent to the front facade of the business or
    within the park strip, provided a six (6) foot wide clear pedestrian way is maintained on the sidewalk. Signs
    shall not be located outside of this designated area in any other location within the public right-of-way.

    (d) Time of Display. The sign shall be displayed only during the associated business’s hours of operation.




                                                   Page 14 of 26
EXHIBIT C

14.34.500
Fencing Standards for Residential Zones.
Fencing in the One-Family Residential (R1), Residential Conservation (RC), Very Low Density Residential (VLDR),
Low Density Residential (LDR), Medium Density Residential (MDR), High Density Residential (HDR), and Campus
Mixed Use (CMU), Neighborhood Mixed-Use (NMU) and Mixed-Use (MU) Zones shall comply with the following
standards:
...




                                                 Page 15 of 26
 EXHIBIT D

14.37.100
Parking Design Standards.
...

(7) In the case of permitted uses in A1, RA, R1, VLDR, and LDR and NMU zones, when used for access to a
garage, carport, or parking area having four (4) or more parking spaces, a driveway shall be a minimum of
twelve (12) feet in width for one (1) way traffic, or sixteen (16) feet in width for two (2) way traffic.

...




                                                     Page 16 of 26
EXHIBIT E

14.34.287
Residential and Mixed-Use Design Standards.

(1) Purpose and Intent. This Section establishes residential design standards that are intended to improve the
quality and compatibility of new residential development and mixed-use development. These standards
address yard design, building location and orientation, driveway and parking design, landscaping design,
building form, mass and scale, building materials and compatible additions. They are intended to provide
design standards for project applicants, staff, the Design Review Committee and the general public..

    (a) Design standards that are mandatory are indicated by the verb “shall.” Design standards shall be
    required unless it can be demonstrated by the applicant that there is no practical means by which the
    standard can be achieved and an acceptable alternative is approved. Economic considerations alone do
    not constitute “no practical means” for altering a requirement.

(2) Applicability. The design standards set forth in this Section shall apply to all new residential buildings and
uses located in the Very Low Density Residential (VLDR), Low Density Residential (LDR), Medium Density
Residential (MDR), High Density Residential (HDR), and Campus Mixed-Use (CMU), Neighborhood Mixed-Use
(NMU) and Mixed-Use (MU) zones.

    (a) In approving a project plan, the approving authority may impose reasonable conditions consistent
    with the purpose and intent of this Section. The requirements for this Section shall apply in addition to
    other applicable requirements of this Title. This Section shall be interpreted to supersede other
    requirements of the Provo City Code which may impose more restrictive requirements.

    (b) All of the requirements of this Section shall apply, unless the Planning Commission approves an
    alternative design arrangement equal to or better than the requirements set forth in this section. The
    Planning Commission shall make specific findings justifying the alternate design arrangement.

(3) Site Design Standards.

    (a) Front Yards.

         (i) There shall be a logical hard surface pedestrian connection between the street and the front
         entry.

         (ii) The front yard shall be predominantly landscaped with a combination of turf and plants. Hard
         surfaces for driveways and parking shall be minimized and shall not exceed ordinance requirements.

                                                   Page 17 of 26
    (iii) Utility boxes shall not be located in the front or street side yards or park strips unless the
    applicant demonstrates that there is no other practical location for utility boxes on the site.

    (iv) Front yards shall provide transitions between the public way and private space on residential
    frontages. This requirement may be met with the following strategies:

         (A) Use of foundation plantings to provide separation between residential units and the
         sidewalk.

         (B) Use of porches, stoops and railings to provide intermediate semi-private spaces.

         (C) Employment of elevation changes to delineate the progression from public space through
         exterior semi-private space into interior private space.

(b) Fences.

    (i) Fences shall complement the architectural character of the project.

    (ii) Chain link fences shall be prohibited in front yards.

    (iii) Fencing shall conform to Section 14.34.500, Provo City Code.

(c) Building Location.

    (i) New structures shall be sited consistently with the existing front setbacks of adjoining properties
    to maintain neighborhood compatibility, with the exception of projects that are zoned High Density
    Residential (HDR) or Campus Mixed Use (CMU), and MU where the zone permits lesser setbacks than
    the existing housing stock.

    (ii) Frontage.

         (A) A building’s front elevation is the elevation whereon the primary or common entrance is
         located.

         (B) Buildings shall front on a street, open space, or pedestrian way.

         (C) Buildings shall not front an interior property boundary or parking lot.

         (D) In any development consisting of six (6) or more townhomes, each townhome shall front a
         street, open space or pedestrian way.



                                               Page 18 of 26
        (iii) The majority of new buildings in multifamily developments shall be sited along the block face
        rather than the interior of the block.

    (d) Buildings, including parking structures, shall be designed and located in a manner that allows planting
    and growth of mature trees in the front and side yards.

(4) Building Facades.

    (a) Ground Floor Treatment.

        (i) Commercial Ground Floors in the Campus Mixed Use CMU, MU and NMU Zones.

             (A) Ground floor commercial space shall be designed for retail or other active uses, orienting
             tenant spaces to the street and maximizing storefronts and entries along the sidewalks to sustain
             street level interest and promote pedestrian traffic.

             (B) Wall openings, such as storefronts, windows and doors, shall comprise at least sixty percent
             (60%) of a building’s street level facade measured as a percentage of facade area between the
             ground plane and the finished floor elevation of the second floor.

             (C) Open-wall storefronts are encouraged.

        (ii) Ground Floors in All Applicable Zones.

             (A) Excepting townhomes, a minimum habitable first floor depth of thirty (30) feet as measured
             from the street facing facade is required.

             (B) Residential units with individual entries shall include windows on the ground floor that look
             out onto the street, with wall openings comprising at least thirty percent (30%) of the street level
             facade, measured as a percentage of facade area between the ground plane and the finished
             floor elevation of the second floor.

             (C) Clear glass for wall openings, i.e., doors and windows, shall be used along all street level
             facades for maximum transparency. Tinted, mirrored or opaque glazing is not permitted for any
             required wall opening along street level facades.

             (D) Articulation and detailing of the ground floor with pedestrian entrances, quality materials
             and decorative details shall be used to promote pedestrian-scaled architecture along the street.




                                                      Page 19 of 26
        (E) Electrical service, mechanical, or other equipment, enclosed stairs, storage spaces, blank
        walls, and other elements that are not pedestrian-oriented shall not be located along the ground
        floor street wall unless required by applicable code and no workable alternative location exists.

(b) Pedestrian Building Entrances.

    (i) Pedestrian building entrances shall:

        (A) Meet the spatial requirements set forth in Table 14.34.287-1 Pedestrian Building Entrance
        (PBE) Requirements;

        (B) Contain a door providing direct pedestrian access into a building;

        (C) Directly access an interior and enclosed commercial tenant space, public lobby, or residential
        unit;

        (D) Be directly accessible from and directly adjacent to the sidewalk; and

        (E) Prevent doors from swinging into the public right-of-way or beyond the front facade line of
        the building when opened.

    (ii) Fire exit doors, doors to fire riser rooms or other mechanical spaces, and doors to exterior
    courtyards shall not qualify as pedestrian building entrances.

(c) The primary entrance of a multifamily structure shall be clearly defined by use of a raised porch or
other similar entry feature.

    (i) The front porch or entry feature shall be oriented to the street.

    (ii) The minimum size of the front porch or entry feature shall be functional rather than merely
    decorative.

    (iii) The porch floor height shall not exceed thirty (30) inches above the elevation of the top of the
    street curb.

(d) Doors, windows and balconies of new housing should be located to respect the privacy of
neighboring properties.

                Table 14.34.287-1. Pedestrian Building Entrance (PBE) Requirements




                                               Page 20 of 26
                   Frontage Type                     Commercial                     Residential

          PBE’s Required for Each Street   1 per 30 feet (1 min.)        1 per street fronting ground floor
          Facing Facade                                                  unit

          Maximum Spacing                  40 feet                       38 feet


(5) Driveways and Parking.

    (a) New developments shall provide the minimum amount of driveway access and width required by
    code as a means of preserving front yard space.

        (i) Driveway placement shall be toward the side property line to avoid dividing a building by a single,
        central driveway to subterranean parking.

        (ii) Driveways shall be consolidated where adjacent parcels or developments can be served by a
        single driveway. Cross access easements shall guarantee rights of access across the shared driveway
        for both parcels.

        (iii) Alley access for properties shall be encouraged to reduce the impact of parking and traffic
        circulation on the front of the property.

        (iv) Parking and interior access shall be designed to minimize the number of curb cuts.

    (b) Parking shall not be placed in the front yard and should be minimized in the side yard, with the
    exception of one- and two-family dwellings when the driveway leads to a garage or carport as defined in
    Chapter 14.37, Provo City Code.

        (i) Parking shall not be allowed between a primary building and a public street.

        (ii) Surface parking areas in rear yards shall be screened from neighboring properties with
        appropriate plant materials and/or fencing.

        (iii) Entrances to structured parking shall be provided from driveways along the sides of properties,
        not from a front-facing garage entry.

        (iv) Parking shall be screened from any adjacent public way, street, open space, or pedestrian way.

        Except for the minimum ground-level frontage required for access to parking and loading, no parking
        or loading shall be visible on the ground floor of any building facade that faces a public right-of-way.

(6) Landscape Design.
                                                     Page 21 of 26
    (a) Property owners shall comply with Section 15.20.030, Provo City Code, for the protection of existing
    vegetation.

    (b) New landscaping shall be complementary to existing neighborhood vegetation.

        (i) The species, size and placement of new landscaping shall be considered in the design review
        process.

    (c) Landscaping shall be used to reduce the impact of larger buildings on neighboring properties.

    (d) Buildings and driveway lighting should not extend beyond the boundaries of the subject property, as
    per Chapter 15.21, Provo City Code.

(7) Building Form, Mass and Scale (VLDR, and LDR, and NMU Zones Only).

    (a) Building form, mass and scale should be appropriate for the zone in which the building is located and
    consistent with the established neighborhood character.

        (i) Architectural elements such as roof form, windows, doors, etc., should be consistent with the form
        and character of the existing housing in the area.

        (ii) A porch or similar element, which defines the front entrance, shall be provided.

        (iii) An attached garage shall not be the dominant design feature of the front elevation.

        (iv) Sloping roofs such as gable or hip design should be used as the primary roof form.

        (v) Historic buildings are subject to Title 16, Provo City Code.

    (b) Building additions shall not strongly alter the character of an original building.

        (i) Windows, materials and doors should be compatible with those of the original building.

        (ii) Roof forms shall be compatible with the existing structure.

(8) Building Form, Mass and Scale (MDR, HDR, and CMU and MU Zones).

    (a) The facade of any multiple-family, apartment, or mixed-use structure shall:

        (i) Be articulated in the horizontal plane to provide visual interest and enrich the pedestrian
        experience, while contributing to the quality and definition of the street wall;



                                                  Page 22 of 26
         (ii) Be vertically articulated to differentiate the ground floor facade, and feature high quality
         materials that add human scale, texture and variety at the pedestrian level;

         (iii) Provide an identifiable break between the building’s ground floors and upper floors. This break
         may be accomplished by a change in material, a horizontal dividing element, a change in fenestration
         pattern, or similar means;

         (iv) Be vertically articulated at the street wall facade, establishing different treatment for the
         building’s base, middle and top. Balconies, fenestration, shading devices, or other elements shall be
         used to create an interesting pattern of projections and recesses;

         (v) Avoid extensive blank walls that detract from the experience and appearance of an active
         streetscape; and

         (vi) Provide well marked entrances to cue access and use. All public entrances to a building or use
         shall be enhanced through compatible architectural or graphic treatment.

    (b) Exterior stairways, corridors, or landings shall not be located on the front or street side elevation of
    the building.

    (c) Structures located in the CMU zone that are greater than six (6) stories in height shall step back fifteen
    (15) feet from the first floor elevation for all stories above the fourth floor on all elevations that front a
    public street unless the applicant can demonstrate that there is sufficient variation and articulation in the
    building planes to give visual interest and appeal.

    (d) Building additions shall not strongly alter the character of the original building.

         (i) Windows, materials and doors shall be compatible with those of the original building.

         (ii) Roof forms shall be compatible with the existing structure.

(9) Building Materials.

    (a) Intent. The intent of the facade materials standards of this Section is to:

         (i) Provide minimum material standards to ensure use of well tested, high quality, durable surfaces,
         while permitting a wider range of materials for details; and

         (ii) Encourage a high level of detail from smaller scaled, less monolithic materials in order to relate
         facades to pedestrians, especially at the ground level.


                                                    Page 23 of 26
(b) Major Materials. A minimum of eighty percent (80%) of each facade, not including window and door
areas, shall be composed of major materials, as specified in this Section.

    (i) Allowed Major Materials. The following are allowed major materials:

        (A) Stone;

        (B) Brick;

        (C) Wood;

        (D) Architectural metal panel systems;

        (E) Fiber cement board;

        (F) Glass curtain wall;

        (G) Terra cotta decorative units, tiles or panels; and

        (H) Architectural cast stone, including glass fiber reinforced concrete.

    (ii) Prohibited Major Materials. The following materials are prohibited as major materials, unless
    otherwise approved under the standards of this Section:

        (A) Face-sealed EIFS synthetic stucco assemblies and decorative architectural elements;

        (B) Synthetic stucco or elastomeric finishes on stucco;

        (C) Unfinished or untreated wood;

        (D) Glass block;

        (E) Vinyl or aluminum siding;

        (F) Plastic panels, including high-density polyethylene, polyvinyl chloride (PVC), and
        polycarbonate; and

        (G) Fiberglass and acrylic panels.

    (iii) Limited Use Major Materials. The following materials are prohibited as a major material, except as
    specifically allowed in this Subsection (9)(b)(iii):




                                                 Page 24 of 26
         (A) Economy Bricks. Brick types larger than three (3) inches in height are allowed as major
         materials on rear, alley, and rail corridor facades. In such instances, corner bricks shall be used to
         give the appearance of a full brick facade.

(c) Minor Materials. Allowed minor materials are limited to trim, details, and other accent areas that
combined form twenty percent (20%) or less of the total surface of each facade.

    (i) Major Materials. All allowed major materials may serve as minor materials.

    (ii) Allowed Minor Materials. The following are allowed minor materials:

         (A) Metal for beams, lintels, trim, exposed structure, and other ornamentation;

         (B) Split-faced, burnished, glazed, or honed concrete masonry units or block cast stone concrete
         elements;

         (C) Vinyl for window trim;

         (D) Cement-based stucco;

         (E) Face-sealed EIFS synthetic stucco assemblies and decorative architectural elements; and

         (F) Synthetic stucco.

(d) Other Materials with Approval. Materials that are not listed in this Section for its proposed application
as allowed major materials, limited use materials, or allowed minor materials may not be installed on any
facade unless approved by the reviewing authority pursuant to this Subsection. The reviewing authority
may approve facade materials that are not listed in this Section if the applicant demonstrates that the
alternate material meets the intent of the facade material standards described in Subsection (9)(a) of this
Section. Samples and examples of successful high quality local installation shall be provided by the
applicant.




                                              Page 25 of 26
EXHIBIT F

15.20.080
Supplemental Landscaping Requirements by Zone.
...

      (b) Within all VLDR, LDR, MDR, HDR, and CMU, NMU, and MU zones, landscaping shall meet the following
      requirements:

          (i) Each property shall have a minimum of one (1) tree per two thousand (2,000) square feet of
          landscape space (parkway and interior parking lot trees shall not be counted towards this
          requirement).

          (ii) Foundation area plantings (including fences) shall have a minimum four (4) foot planting bed, a
          minimum three (3) foot average plant height, and have minimum fifty percent (50%) coverage at
          maturity; layered planting is encouraged (additional width may be required to accommodate mature
          spread of selected plant materials).

          ...

(3) Within the MU, DT1 and DT2 zones any open areas or courts lying between a front or side property line
and the front or side of any building or structure located on the property, except those portions devoted to
driveways, shall be maintained with suitable landscaping of plants, shrubs, trees, grass, and similar
landscaping materials. Landscaping materials shall be in character with and shall complement the landscaping
provided in adjacent public rights-of-way.

...




                                                  Page 26 of 26
