                                  Provo City Planning Commission
                                       Report of Action
                                               August 12, 2020

Item 4   Jeffrey Rands requests Concept Plan approval for a two-lot, residential subdivision in the Very
         Low Density Residential (VLDR) zone, located at 189 S 500 W. Franklin Neighborhood.
         Brandon Larsen (801) 852-6408 jblarsen@provo.org PLCP20200184


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting
of August 12, 2020:

                                                Continued
On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application to the September 23, 2020,
Planning Commission meeting.

Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Laurie Urquiaga
Votes in Favor of Motion: Laurie Urquiaga, Ally Jones, Brian Henrie, Dave Anderson, Robert Knudsen, Lisa
Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, and Deborah Jensen

Deborah Jensen was present as Chair.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations. Key points addressed in Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission
included the following: Staff explained that the applicant desires to establish two (2) lots at 189 S 500 W. The
minimum lot size for the VLDR Zone was noted (5000 SF). There was much discussion on the configuration
of the two (2) proposed lots. It appears the configuration is the result of the applicant trying to achieve the
VLDR Zone lot area minimum.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
  • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
  • No comments or questions for this item were received from the public at this meeting.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission continued this item, so that the applicant could revise his concept plan and
      Staff could propose amendments to the VLDR and LDR zones, such as the required lot area minimum.
      The Planning Commission appeared to be interested in being presented a proposal—for their
      consideration—to reduce the lot area minimum for the VLDR and LDR zones.
             Planning Commission Chair




          Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the
Staff Report to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the
record of the decision of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff,
those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following
a public hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council
following a public hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed
by submitting an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees, to the
Development Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of
the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to
6:00 p.m.).
