                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    January 22, 2025


*Item 2 Nathan Gregory requests a Zone Map Amendment from the R1.8 Zone to the R1.6 Zone in order to create a
        2-lot residential subdivision, located at 916 W 1150 S. Lakewood Neighborhood. Jessica Dahneke (801) 852-
        6413 jdahneke@provo.org PLRZ20240344


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
January 22, 2025:
                                 RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Andrew South
Second By: Adam Shin
Votes in Favor of Motion: Adam Shin, Barbra DeSoto, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Jonathon Hill, Jeff Whitlock,
Melissa Kendall, Andrew South
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

•    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
     noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
The property to be rezoned to the R1.6 Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: No public comment was made at the meeting; the district chair expressed her
support via email which is included as Exhibit B.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
The applicant highlighted that other homes in the neighborhood have subdivided to create flag lots. He explained that
leaving the lot as a large backyard would not be the most effective use of the property and mentioned that he had discussed
with the City the idea of putting 9 townhomes at the rear of the property. To close he stated that approving the rezone to
R1.6 would allow him to create a second lot and add one single-family dwelling to the community.

                                                        Page 1 of 4
PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioner DeSoto asked the applicant to explain why the concept plan only shows one lot instead of the
       possible 9 he mentioned. Staff explained that there had been many meetings with the applicant and that a rezone
       to R1.6 with one flag lot would be the best option based on the technical restrictions at the property.
   • Commissioner Jensen asked why staff was going through a rezone process as opposed to a variance. Staff explained
       that this property likely would not meet the requirements for a variance to be approved.
   • Commissioner Jensen asked why there would be just one lot in the rear of the property when there could possibly
       be room for two. The applicant explained that based on the flag lot restrictions and lot width requirements the
       property could not meet the lot width requirements and the flag lot requirements. Staff confirmed the statement.
   • Commissioner Shin asked if this flag lot width requirement was related to the flag lot text amendments that the
       Planning Commission had recently reviewed. Staff confirmed that it was.
   • Commissioner Jensen asked if he demolished the existing house could he create more lots? Staff explained that
       the lot width would not allow any additional flag lots to be created.
   • Commissioner Jensen stated although her preference is not for small rezones, this is a creative solution to allow
       for an additional single-family dwelling and a better use of the land. She noted that the proposed rezone is not to
       a density that would impact the neighborhood, and the rezone is in line with General Plan goals.
   • Commissioner Jensen asked if the home to be built on the proposed lot would be for sale or if the applicant was
       planning to rent it. The applicant confirmed it would be for sale.
   • Commissioner South stated that he was in favor of the proposed rezone and subdivision but wished that there could
       be a rezone for something that allowed more density.
   • Commissioners Whitlock. Gonzales, and DeSoto agreed with Commissioner South.
   • Commission Whitlock consulted staff on why rezoning to R1.6 was chosen over other options. Staff explained that
       they had gone over other possible zones, but lot width and flagstaff width were the constraining factors.
   • Commissioner Jensen stated that the discussion about having more density at this site is not the item at hand and
       asked if the Commission felt comfortable making a motion about the item at hand.
   • Commissioner South made the motion to recommend approval to the Municipal Council. The motion was seconded
       by Commissioner Shin.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
                                                       Page 2 of 4
                                        Exhibit A




LOT 1, PLAT A, TAYLOR-SHAW ESTATES SUBDV. AREA 0.737 AC.




                                     Page 3 of 4
                                                          Exhibit B




I'm the neighborhood representative for the Lakewood neighborhood. I asked for feedback from the neighborhood on:
Nathan Gregory requests a Zone Map Amendment from the R1.8 Zone to the R1.6 Zone in order to create a 2-lot residential
subdivision, located at 916 W 1150 S.
The response I got was minimal but all positive and in support of the project.

Thank you,
Brooke Barnes
District 3 neighborhood chair




                                                      Page 4 of 4
