                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    February 28, 2024

 *ITEM 1     Provo City Development Services requests Ordinance Text Amendments to Chapter 15.20.060 Design
             Standards. Citywide Application. Hannah Salzl (801) 852-6423 hsalzl@provo.org PLOTA20230206

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
February 28, 2024:
                                  RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen, Melissa Kendall, Andrew South, Jeff Whitlock, Jonathon Hill,
Barbara DeSoto
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions, and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

TEXT AMENDMENT
The text of the proposed amendment is attached as Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • Citywide Application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • This item was Citywide or affected multiple neighborhoods.
 • No members of the public chose to address the Planning Commission.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
 • Commissioners discussed how enforcement of the text will be handled by staff, what yards are covered by the
     amendment, and how non-conforming yards will be treated.
 • The Commission found that this proposed text provides a better solution that makes sense for ground cover standards.



                 Planning Commission Chair


              Director of Development Services

 See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
     to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
     of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
     Report of Action.

                                                        Page 1 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 West
   Center St., Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
   office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
                                                        EXHIBIT A



15.20.060 Design Standards.

…

(6) Xeric landscaping and water wise landscaping is encouraged in all yards if the landscaping plan for yards adjacent to
a street meets the following criteria:

        (a) Living vegetation including turf grass, shrubs, perennials, or ornamental grasses or artificial turf grass shall
        cover a minimum of forty percent (40%) of the unbuilt surface area within three (3) years of planting. Tree
        canopy, artificial turf, and weeds may not count toward this percentage;

        (b) The remaining unbuilt area not covered by living vegetation or artificial turf grass shall be covered by bark or
        wood mulch, decorative rock, hardscape, artificial turf, or any combination of these materials. Living plants
        should be grouped aesthetically throughout the yard;

        (c) Living plants in the parkway area shall not be included in the minimum coverage requirement. Landscaping
        requirements for parkways shall be followed as defined in Section 15.20.120, Provo City Code.

        (d) Artificial turf grass may be used in landscaping so long as it meets the following requirements:

                (i) Artificial turf grass in yards adjacent to a street must have a blade length between two (2) inches and
                three (3) inches, have a natural green color, and be water permeable;

                (ii) Artificial turf grass must be installed on top of a minimum of three (3) inches of sand, rocks, gravel,
                or similar product for drainage. Rocks, gravel or similar products shall range in size from three-eighths
                (3/8) inch to three-fourths (3/4) inch;

                (iii) Artificial turf grass used for landscaping may not include rubber infill in a yard adjacent to a public
                street;

                (iv) Outdoor green carpet shall not be used in landscaping;

                (v) Upon request, specifications for installed artificial turf grass shall be provided to the Development
                Services Department.

        (e) Outdoor carpet shall not be used in landscaping.




                                                         Page 3 of 3
