                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                    January 17, 2024

 ITEM 2     Dudley & Associates requests Project Plan approval for a new 3-story office building in the SC3 (Regional
            Shopping Center) zone, located approximately at 4951 N Edgewood Drive. Riverbottoms Neighborhood.
            Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 PLPPA20220393

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of January
17, 2024:
                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 9:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:

 Conditions of Approval:

      1. That the parking agreement is recorded with the City.
      2. That the City Council approves the rezone.

Motion By: Lisa Jensen
Second By: Melissa Kendall
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Melissa Kendall, Jonathon Hill, Raleen Whalin, Robert Knudsen, Daniel Gonzales,
Jeff Whitlock, Andrew South, Barbara DeSoto
Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

RELATED ACTIONS
 The Planning Commission also forwarded a positive recommendation to the City Council to rezone the north property on
 this project to the SC3 Zone (PLRZ20230267, January 17, 2024 PC hearing, Item 3)

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
*87 total parking stalls provided on site.
*55 additional parking stalls to be provided on adjacent parcel through a parking agreement.

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • Does not apply at this stage of review or approval.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.

CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 08/17/2023.

                                                         Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • Neighbors or other interested parties were not present or did not address the Planning Commission.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following:
     • Brittany Call sent an email to note her concerns for the project, specifically in regards to the pathway along the
         river being maintained, congestion of the parking lot, and what value would be added to the city by approving the
         rezone.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
 Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
    • Jay Roberts (representing the owner) detailed issues that kept the building from being south of the AMC movie
        theater, and the owners intent to beautify and improve the area.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
 Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
    • The Planning Commission confirmed that all the surrounding SC3 properties were under the same ownership,
        this gave them comfort in allowing a shared parking agreement (in addition to compatible uses with hours for
        parking demand).
    • The Commission inquired about site details and setback from the residential units to the north.
    • The Commission confirmed parking use and details with the applicant to ensure that there will be sufficient
        parking for all users in the Shops at Riverwoods.
    • The Commission believes the new use will be an improvement and is a complimentary use to what exists around
        the site. The project will make use of a underused piece of land with an attractive building.




                 Planning Commission Chair



              Director of Development Services

 See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
     to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
     of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
     Report of Action.

 Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing.

 Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
    an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to Development Services, 445 W
    Center St, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo City
    office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                 BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS

                                                        Page 2 of 2
