                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                     October 23, 2024


     ITEM #6      Gregory Hunt requests Concept Plan approval for a community with 122 single-family lots, 144 low-
                  density units, and 2.4 acres of commercial land in proposed R1.6 (One Family Residential), LDR
                  (Low Density Residential), and CG (General Commercial) Zones for 55 acres of land at
                  approximately 1534 S 1100 W. Sunset and Lakewood neighborhoods. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-
                  6404 aardmore@provo.org PLCP20230264

 The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
 October 23, 2024:


                                                   APPROVED
 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application.

 Motion By: Jeff Whitlock
 Second By: Lisa Jensen
 Votes in Favor of Motion: Jeff Whitlock, Lisa Jensen, Daniel Gonzales, Andrew South, Adam Shin
 Daniel Gonzales was present as Chair.

 •     Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
       noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


 RELATED ACTIONS
 Planning Commission recommended approval on the related Zone Map Amendment (PLRZ20230250, Item #5, October
 23rd agenda).

 APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
 266 Total Units
 Type of occupancy approved: Family

 DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
 • Applies - referred applicant to Council Attorney.

 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations.
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • A neighborhood meeting was held on 11/30/2023.

                                                         Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
  • Greg Hunt provided a brief history and overview of the project as it has gone through staff review and answered
      Planning Commission questions regarding unit sizes, prices, open space programming, and commercial users.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
  • The Planning Commission noted that the proposal is one of the best examples of mixing of uses and unit types that
      they have seen, providing for a well-balanced community.
  • Some Commissioners noted that they would like to see some sort of owner-occupancy requirements discussed at
      the City Council level review.
  • Commissioners stated that the project seems to be consistent with the General Plan, allows people to age in place,
      and is not taking active agricultural uses away from the property.
  • There was additional discussion regarding ideal commercial users, transit options, and design of street-facing
      garages.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
