                                      Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                     March 08, 2023

 *ITEM 1       Ginny Smith requests annexation of approximately 9.1 acres located at approximately 5500 N Canyon
               Rd. The subject property lies adjacent to the North Timpview Neighborhood. Brandon Larsen (801) 852-
               6408 PLANEX20230020


The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of March
8, 2023:

                                    RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted
 application.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Jeff Whitlock
Votes in Favor of Motion: Lisa Jensen, Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Raleen
Wahlin, and Andrew South

Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any
      changes noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and
      determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE ANNEXED
 The property to be annexed is described in the attached Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis,
conclusions, and recommendations.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • The Public Works Department wants an acknowledgement from, or agreement with, the Smiths essentially
    acknowledging they will not receive additional utility services from the city upon annexation. The Power
    Department wants powerline easements on future plats involving the subject property.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • The Neighborhood District Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.
 • Steve Turley expressed a desire for the city to not bring in the proposed annexation without requiring utilities. He
    also said there is a recorded restrictive covenant against all or some of the subject property that could be impacted
    through the annexation. The restrictive covenant is referred to as a Declaration of Zoning Lot, which was signed in
    2004.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 The only comments staff received from the public are related to the comment above from Steve Turley.

                                                        Page 1 of 3
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Ginny Smith said this annexation will help them to maintain their agricultural pursuits on their property, as well
       as help keep their property safer with better police protection through the city.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Commissioner Jensen suggested zoning, the issue with the restrictive covenant referenced by Mr. Turley, and
       development issues are interesting, but not relevant to their decision tonight because there is no development
       being proposed.
   • The restrictive covenant issue can be addressed at the Council level.
   • Commissioner Jensen suggested we typically do not like patch work annexations, but it is adjacent to land
       within the city. We are not dealing with a county island.
   • Commissioner Gonzales requested the following finding be included in their motion: The property is mainly
       used for agricultural purposes, namely fruit growing, and the applicant intends to continue to use the property
       for agricultural operations.
   • Commissioner Kendell recommended the Commission recommend approval of the annexation with
       Commissioner Gonzales’s finding. The motion was seconded by Commissioner Whitlock. The motion was
       approved 7-0.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.

Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A




Page 3 of 3
