                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                            Report of Action
                                                   September 23, 2020


 *ITEM 7      The Development Services Dept. requests an Ordinance Text amendment to Section 14.34.210 to allow for
              consistency between the International Building Code and the Zoning Ordinance regarding swimming pool
              fencing and coverings. Citywide Impact. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org
              PLOTA20200286



The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of
September 23, 2020:


                                POSITIVE RECOMMENDATION
 On a vote of 7:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.

Motion By: Dave Anderson
Second By: Brian Henrie
Votes in Favor of Motion: Dave Anderson, Brian Henrie, Laurie Urquiaga, Robert Knudsen, Deborah Jensen, Lisa Jensen,
Ally Jones
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.


 PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDED TEXT AMENDMENT
 The text of the proposed ordinance amendment is attached as Exhibit A.


 STAFF PRESENTATION
 The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
 and recommendations. Key points addressed in the Staff's presentation to the Planning Commission included the
 following: Staff gave a brief overview of the request.


 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application; all Neighborhood Chairs received notification.

 CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
 Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
 Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
 the public hearing included the following: None
APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
   • Staff clarified what options for pool coverings would be available with the amendment.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission asked a question regarding types of measures the code would allow for pools and
       appreciated that this change would allow for future IBC changes without changes to the City Code.




                 Planning Commission Chair




              Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report to the
    Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision of this item. Where
    findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public hearing;
    the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting an
    application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood Services
    Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
    decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

             BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS
EXHIBIT A
