                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      July 10, 2024


    Item 4     Development Services request Ordinance Text Amendments to the DT1 (General Downtown), DT2
               (Downtown Core), and ITOD (Interim Transit Oriented Development) Zones in order to add housing
               density maximums. Citywide application. Aaron Ardmore (801) 8526404 aardmore@provo.org
               PLOTA20240162

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above-described item at its regular meeting of July
10, 2024:
                                                  CONTINUED
On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission expressed support for encouraging for-sale housing in Provo, with the
recommendation that a Technical Advisory Committee be formed to bring forward achievable alternatives to accomplish
more for-sale housing in Provo.

Conditions of Approval:

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Jonathan Hill
Votes in Favor of Motion:
Jeff Whitlock was present as Chair. Melissa Kendall, Jonathan Hill, Barbie DeSoto, Adam Shin, Jeff Whitlock

•      The staff provided the Planning Commission with a memorandum that included seven options that may encourage
       more for-sale housing in Provo. The memorandum also included advantages and disadvantages for those options.
       Because of the complexity of this topic and potential for unintended consequences, staff suggested that a technical
       advisory committee be formed to include representatives from banking/finance, developers and homebuilders, state
       and local government representatives and citizens to bring forward thoughtful, realistic recommendations to
       encourage more for-sale housing.

RELATED ACTIONS
Formation of a Housing Technical Advisory Committee subject to City Council approval.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
Not applicable

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
Not applicable

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT
Not applicable


TEXT AMENDMENT
The eventual outcome may be a text amendment. Option 5 of the memorandum is the only specific amendment currently
proposed.
                                                  Page 1 of 3
STAFF PRESENTATION
The memorandum to the Planning Commission provides options for the City Council to consider.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • None identified at this point.
 • Option 7, which is to encourage for-sale housing through the reduction of impact fees could have a significant impact
    on various departments.

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • City-wide application: all Neighborhood District Chairs received notification.

 NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
 • No Neighborhood District Chair was present.
 • Matt Clewitt a representative of the Utah Central Association of Realtors, reiterated comments made in a letter sent
    to the Planning Commission. Matt emphasized the importance of creating incentives rather than mandates that may
    discourage development. Matt’s letter is attached to this ROA.
 • Leslie Jones, a realtor from Mapleton, supported options that were not hard mandates but rather ones that a developer,
    building would opt into, like Options 1, 2 and 6.
 • Eileen Miller spoke on behalf of the Utah Valley Homebuilders Association in opposition to mandates.


PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
• Barbie DeSoto voiced the greatest hesitation with Option 5 and was more supportive of options that give developers
   and builders a choice. She wondered if the city’s RDA could play a role in finding solutions.
• Jonathan Hill noted how much of the housing problem the city is facing is out of the city’s control. He expressed the
   observation that historically home-ownership has been the middle-class’s means to build wealth. He suggested the
   involvement of our local state legislators in this discussion and expressed support for an advisory committee.
• Jeff Whitlock suggested that an advisory committee should further refine the stated goal of increasing ownership to
   ensure it is achievable and that achieving the goal does not lead to undesirable consequences.
• All Planning Commission members expressed the need for more for-sale housing options in the city but that there
   was concern that if the city gets this wrong it could stifle new projects.

FINDINGS / BASIS OF PLANNING COMMISSION DETERMINATION
 The Planning Commission identified the following findings as the basis of this decision or recommendation:

 On a vote of 5:0, the Planning Commission continued the above noted application, with the recommendation that a
 Technical Advisory Committee be formed to bring forward achievable alternatives to encourage more for-sale housing in
 Provo.



                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

 See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
     to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
     of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
     Report of Action.

                                                       Page 2 of 3
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services
   Department, 445 W Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's
   decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 3 of 3
