                                        Provo City Planning Commission
                                             Report of Action
                                                        June 22, 2022


*ITEM #3      Provo City Public Works requests approval of a Zone Map Amendment from the SC2 (Community
Shopping Center) zone to the PF (Public Facilities) zone in order to construct a water treatment plant, located at 2067 N
Freedom Blvd. Carterville Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404 aardmore@provo.org PLRZ20220181




The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of June
22, 2022:


                                   RECOMMENDED APPROVAL
 On a vote of 8:0, the Planning Commission recommended that the Municipal Council approve the above noted application.


Motion By: Miles Miller
Second By: Daniel Gonzales
Votes in Favor of Motion: Miles Miller, Daniel Gonzales, Laurie Urquiaga, Lisa Jensen, Robert Knudsen, Dave Anderson,
Melissa Kendall, Brian Henrie
Laurie Urquiaga was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

LEGAL DESCRIPTION FOR PROPERTY TO BE REZONED
 The property to be rezoned to the PF Zone is described in the attached Exhibit A.

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations.
    • Public Works staff responded to questions from the Planning Commission on details of the operation, location,
        and design of the culinary water treatment plant. David Decker explained the need to augment the water supply
        for the City with this facility. He also stated that there should be no noise or smell issues from the plant in response
        to concerns from the Planning Commission.
    • Planning staff explained that site details including landscaping and parking will be worked through with the Project
        Plan application after the Zone Map Amendment is complete.




                                                          Page 1 of 3
CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
• The Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) has reviewed the application and given their approval.

NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
• No information was received from the Neighborhood Chair.

NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
   • The Planning Commission discussed the purpose and location of the culinary water treatment plant, asked staff
       questions about the need and shared concerns about the site design, noise, and smell coming from the site.
   • The Commission discussed transitional standards for the property, site design, and truck traffic to the site. They
       hoped that design would respect the neighboring properties, but that the rezone couldn’t be a hinderance since the
       commercial zone has left the property vacant for so many years. They appreciated Public Works efforts to secure
       water for the residents of Provo.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.

Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
   hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
   an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Community and Neighborhood
   Services Department, 330 West 100 South, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning
   Commission's decision (Provo City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 3
EXHIBIT A




            Page 3 of 3
