                                       Provo City Planning Commission
                                           Report of Action
                                                      April 12, 2023

 ITEM #6     Nathan Rory Gagon requests a Conditional Use Permit for a Dance Hall, located at 247 W Center St, in the
             General Downtown (DT1) zone. Downtown Neighborhood. Aaron Ardmore (801) 852-6404
             aardmore@provo.org PLCUP20220400

The following action was taken by the Planning Commission on the above described item at its regular meeting of April
12, 2023:
                                APPROVED WITH CONDITIONS
 On a vote of 6:0, the Planning Commission approved the above noted application, with the following conditions:
 Conditions of Approval:
   1. That the Fire Protection requirement noted in the staff report be completed prior to occupancy.
   2. That the Building Permit requirements be met and that the electrical permit be issued prior to occupancy.
   3. That the TDM is approved.
   4. That occupancy be limited to 250 persons in the building, with a maximum of 208 persons in the concert hall after
       the Fire and Building requirements are met.
   5. That one private security guard be on duty during dance hall functions.
   6. That all other standard conditions of Section 14.34.250(3), Provo City Code, apply.

Motion By: Melissa Kendall
Second By: Robert Knudsen
Votes in Favor of Motion: Melissa Kendall, Robert Knudsen, Lisa Jensen, Jeff Whitlock, Daniel Gonzales, Andrew South
Lisa Jensen was present as Chair.

 •    Includes facts of the case, analysis, conclusions and recommendations outlined in the Staff Report, with any changes
      noted; Planning Commission determination is generally consistent with the Staff analysis and determination.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED OCCUPANCY
  • Maximum of 250 persons in the building, 208 persons in the concert hall.

APPROVED/RECOMMENDED PARKING
  • Four (4) off-street parking spaces on site (TDM approved).

STAFF PRESENTATION
The Staff Report to the Planning Commission provides details of the facts of the case and the Staff's analysis, conclusions,
and recommendations. Staff gave updates to the proposed conditions from those in the Staff Report.

 CITY DEPARTMENTAL ISSUES
 • There are remaining issues from the Coordinator Review Committee (CRC) review that need to be resolved.
 • Important issues raised by other departments – addressed in Staff Report to Planning Commission

 NEIGHBORHOOD MEETING DATE
 • The Neighborhood Chair determined that a neighborhood meeting would not be required.


                                                        Page 1 of 2
NEIGHBORHOOD AND PUBLIC COMMENT
• The Neighborhood Chair was not present or did not address the Planning Commission during the hearing.

CONCERNS RAISED BY PUBLIC
Any comments received prior to completion of the Staff Report are addressed in the Staff Report to the Planning
Commission. Key issues raised in written comments received subsequent to the Staff Report or public comment during
the public hearing included the following: None.

APPLICANT RESPONSE
Key points addressed in the applicant's presentation to the Planning Commission included the following:
  • Rory Gagon stated his agreement to the proposed conditions.

PLANNING COMMISSION DISCUSSION
Key points discussed by the Planning Commission included the following:
  • Commissioner Jensen asked about limits in code section 14.34.250(3)(b) on number of dances, that section would
      not apply to the proposed use.




                Planning Commission Chair



             Director of Development Services

See Key Land Use Policies of the Provo City General Plan, applicable Titles of the Provo City Code, and the Staff Report
    to the Planning Commission for further detailed information. The Staff Report is a part of the record of the decision
    of this item. Where findings of the Planning Commission differ from findings of Staff, those will be noted in this
    Report of Action.
Legislative items are noted with an asterisk (*) and require legislative action by the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing; the Planning Commission provides an advisory recommendation to the Municipal Council following a public
    hearing.
Administrative decisions of the Planning Commission (items not marked with an asterisk) may be appealed by submitting
    an application/notice of appeal, with the required application and noticing fees to the Development Services, 445 W
    Center Street, Provo, Utah, within fourteen (14) calendar days of the Planning Commission's decision (Provo
    City office hours are Monday through Thursday, 7:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m.).

                BUILDING PERMITS MUST BE OBTAINED BEFORE CONSTRUCTION BEGINS




                                                       Page 2 of 2
