COMPREHENSIVE
ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT
STRATEGY
Mountainland Association of Governments
2024-2029
COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

2

01

Introduction

pg.04

02

Economic Resiliency

pg.08

03

Strategic Action Plan

pg.10

04

SWOT Analysis

pg.20

05

Summary Background

pg.26

06

Evaluation Framework

pg.59

07

Appendices

pg.68

s

70 | Appendix A: Geography, Natural Assets, and Cultural Assets
74 | Appendix B: Disaster Resilience
76 | Appendix C: Labor Market
82 | Appendix D: Business and Industry
85 | Appendix E: Broadband and Energy
88 | Appendix F: Stakeholder Engagement
113 | Appendix G: Public Comments and Response
120| Appendix H: Resolution and Acknowledgements

This document is enhanced for digital viewing. Contents are linked to navigate to corresponding pages. To
return to the table of contents, click the icon in the bottom corner of any page. Other navigation options
can be found throughout the document as well.

INTRODUCTION

ABOUT THE CEDS

This Comprehensive Economic Development
Strategy is a document for the Mountainland
Economic Development District (MEDD), updated
every five years, that charts a course for our
region’s future. It allows hundreds of partners
throughout the region to align around shared
priorities. This alignment positions our region
to leverage investment from local and federal
governments. The strategy identifies regional
needs, actions necessary to address those needs,
and organizations with the ability to lead those
actions.

HOW WILL THE CEDS BE USED?

Educate - The plan will be used to engage elected
officials and business leaders to help amplify the
vision and provide support through actions.
Invest - The strategy will be used to leverage
greater investment in regional priorities by
providing data and rationale that can be used
to obtain grants to fund implementation and
align federal and states' legislative agendas to
collaboratively solicit funding.
Collaborate - The work will engage organizations
and departments within jurisdictions to break
down silos and leverage resources to the greatest
extent possible to elevate one another's work.

ABOUT THE MEDD REGION

Utah’s Montainland Region is a stunning and
diverse geographic area located within the
heart of the state. The region is characterized
by its breathtaking landscapes, with majestic
mountain ranges, fertile valleys, and pristine lakes
that collectively create a picturesque tableau.
The region is known for its natural beauty and
recreational opportunities offering year-round
activities and attractions that speak to those of
all walks of life. Home to small towns and large
urban centers alike, this region balances its rural
charm with urban development, boasting a thriving
economy and a strong educational presence at its
core.
6

The region’s rapid growth in population over the
past years has seen these assets strengthen,
accruing the nickname “The Silicon Slopes” for
its leadership in technology and innovation. This
growth has also challenged the region in many
ways, including stretching infrastructure and
transportation capacity, the housing market,
and environmental resources. Rising to these
challenges has and will continue to require a
coordinated approach that reflects the diversity
of life the region has to offer. The Mountainland
Region of Utah seamlessly blends the natural
splendor of the Rocky Mountains with the modern
amenities of its urban centers, making it a truly
unique and captivating part of the state, one that
will only continue to grow and adapt.

STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT

In developing this CEDS, the MEDD sought to
engage a diverse set of stakeholders including
elected officials, government staff, economic
developers, business organizations, educational
institutions, healthcare facilities, and other
community partners, as well as the public. More
than 250 individuals and organizations were
engaged in the process. MEDD hosted workshops
in each county for key stakeholders, conducted a
public survey, held a strategy session with the CEDS
Committee and regional leadership.
On-site workshops focused on developing a
regional vision and identifying the region’s
strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats.
The public survey focused on gathering insights
and perspectives on the four focus areas of the
CEDS and their impact on residents and workers.
The strategy sessions set goals and built a
framework for success.

EQUITY

The region approaches the CEDS with a dedication
to increased equity and inclusion. The EDA
describes this as “a set of strategies and targeted
approaches to serve populations that may have
been underserved by traditional methods to
economic development.”

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

GUIDING DOCUMENTS AND ALIGNMENT

The state of Utah, surrounding regions, and localities within the MEDD region have
provided a strong base from which to build the next steps for economic resiliency.
In March 2023, the State of Utah released the Coordinated Action Plan for Economic
The symbol above
Vision 2030. That plan seeks to align the CEDS of all seven (7) of Utah’s regions. A set
is
used to highlight
of “common core” data elements are included throughout the document. The MEDD
Utah “common core”
region also included recommendations from the plan in strengthening local unified
data elements.
connections, identifying opportunities for potential collaboration with other regions,
and prioritizing actions that align with the Unified Economic Opportunity Commission’s
Utah Economic Vision 2030.
In developing this CEDS, the MEDD region considers many relevant planning documents (linked
throughout). These include but are not limited to:

Utah Economic Vision 2030

Corridor Preservation Program

Coordinated Action Plan

Station Area Planning Program

Envision Utah 2021

Unified Transportation Plan

2018 MEDD CEDS Update

Unified Planning Work Program

COVID-19 Economic Recovery
& Resiliency Plan

State of Utah CEDS

WFEDD CEDS

Regional Hazard Mitigation Plan
Pre-Disaster Mitigation Plan

Wasatch Choice 2050

Public Participation Program

TransPlan50 for Utah County
Transportation Improvement Plan

2020 Summit County Regional
Housing Needs Assessment

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

ECONOMIC RESILIENCY

OUR APPROACH
This CEDS is developed to strengthen the economic
resiliency of the region. The MEDD has focused all
strategies on resiliency and approaches integral to
resiliency: equity and alinment.
The process requires the ability to anticipate risks,
evaluate how those risks might impact underserved
populationss and key economic assets, and build
capacity to respond to shocks and disruptions that may
arise due to:

01

02

03

Events or downturns in the national or global
economies that impact consumer spending
and demand for local goods and services;
Downturns in a region’s major industries;
and/or

Disasters (natural or man-made), climate
change, loss of a major employer, or other
external shock.

This CEDS recognizes and adopts the resiliency
strategies outlined in the COVID-19 Recovery and
Resiliency Plan (2021) and the Pre-Disaster Mitigation
Plan. The plans are maintained with regular updates.
The MEDD region is dedicated to increased equity and
inclusion. Efforts were made to engage a diverse set
of stakeholders to inform the process. Strategies and
background cite how regional goals affect underserved
populations and communities. The deliberate efforts
this CEDS makes to incorporate more equitable
approaches will provide a solid base for project
planning to ensure more accessibility and economic
stability.
Strengthened collaboration and information sharing
are significant themes throughout the MEDD’s goals
and objectives as MAG positions itself as a convener
and trusted information source for the region.
The intentionality of alignment in planning and
implementation aims to increase capacity, durability,
and flexibility in the regional economy.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY | MAG

9

STRATEGIC ACTION PLAN
REGIONAL VISION

The Mountainland region is known for stunning landscapes,
unrivaled recreation, educated workforce, and global
leadership in information and technology, making it one
of the best places in the nation that provides top-quality
services, amenities, and infrastructure for businesses,
residents, workers, and visitors.

TRANSPORTATION
NATURAL RESOURCES
LIVABILITY
REGIONAL COLLABORATION

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

TRANSPORTATION
THE PROBLEM: The MEDD region is experiencing complex transportation and infrastructure challenges intensified by
accelerated population growth and business activity.

IMPACT

Business: Businesses are reliant on supply chains
and distribution of products. The traffic congestion
and lack of connectivity across key areas of the
region increase business costs and extend delivery
times. Customers and other business visitors
experience these transportation challenges when
traveling.
Workforce: The distance between housing and
jobs is a challenge. Both traffic congestion and lack
of access to nearby public transit options increase
commute times. Some workers may not be able to
drive, while others find it difficult to own, maintain,
and provide fuel for vehicles. Workers opting for
other forms of transportation (such as biking or
walking) may often find safety risks with the swell
of vehicle traffic and lack of adequate sidewalks
and bike lanes.
Environment: Regional growth has increased
traffic significantly. With more vehicles traveling, air
pollution is a growing concern.

Explore Data

12

APPROACH

Resiliency: To strengthen long-term economic
resiliency, MEDD aims to assist counties and
cities in the development of efficient and safe
transportation as well as opportunities that do not
require a commute outside of the community.
Equity: To improve access and alleviate demand
on existing infrastructure, MEDD will facilitate the
development of strategic partnerships to identify
gaps in service, offer more transportation choices,
and encourage closer proximity between housing
and public multimodal transit. This intentionality
aims to increase equity across localities,
populations, and income levels.
Alignment: Regional stakeholders agreed to
prioritize a collaborative approach to addressing
these challenges. This goal considers and builds
upon current transportation plans and progress.
There is potential for further alignment within
the region and with the Wasatch Front Economic
Development District.

SWOT Analysis

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Engagements

#1 – Provide a safe, connected, and accessible regional
transportation network to meet current and future needs.
1.1: Expand public transit infrastructure, access, and awareness.
1.1.1: Create a concise, data-driven, and easy-to-understand campaign about how
public transit positively impacts health, congestion, quality of life, air pollution, and
resource management.
1.1.2: Plan and prioritize development that increases proximity between public
transportation and housing development.
1.1.3: Increase regional investment in public transit to speed up the development of new
infrastructure and close the gap in our current needs and anticipated demand.
1.1.4: Explore investment and incentive options to increase public transit ridership and aid
first/last mile transportation.
1.2: Align regional efforts to improve and execute transportation plans that minimize congestion,
increase connectivity, and anticipate future trends.
1.2.1: Develop an advocacy plan to garner support with the UTA, local, county, and state
governments for updated transit policies, transportation plan adoption, and coordination.
1.2.2: Evaluate current transportation plans and increase collaboration between the
region, UDOT/UTA, and experts to address challenges and efficiently move forward on
studies and projects.
1.2.3: Increase regional investment and planning for high-quality, active transit facilities
with consistent design standards across jurisdictions.
1.2.4: Engage with workforce, especially commuters, to ensure their needs are being met.

The evaluation framework outlines timelines, metrics, and resources
to aid the MEDD in achieving the goals described in this strategy

See Evaulation Framework

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

13

NATURAL RESOURCES
THE PROBLEM: Accelerated population and tourism growth is straining the region’s natural resources and water
supply, increasing air and water pollution, and threatening the availability of open spaces.

IMPACT

Business: Pollution has a significant impact
on businesses, especially in the tourism and
agriculture industries. Pollution affects natural
and recreational attractions and can result in
lower crop yields. The ever-increasing economic
and population boom in the region threatens the
availability of land as well, with developers and
businesses searching for suitable property for
operations. Diminished water quality and/or supply
have negative effects on businesses, especially
those businesses that are dependent upon water
to produce goods. Pollution created by or present
in businesses can worsen conditions and put
businesses at risk of litigation.
Workforce: Employees and students breathing
polluted air are more likely to get sick and
experience reduced cognitive performance. This
is especially impactful for children, which may
further strain employee attendance and stress.
The increase in healthcare spending affects both
employees and businesses. The recreational
assets, open spaces, and overall quality of life that
serve to attract and retain workers are in danger of
diminishing due to the region’s rapid growth.

APPROACH

Resiliency: The Mountainland Association of
Governments maintains a hazard mitigation plan
to reduce or prevent damage caused by natural
disasters and to minimize conditions which would
have an undesirable impact on the region’s citizens,
economy, and environment. This CEDS will build
upon that plan with increased focus on the balance
between development and the environment.
Sustainable tourism is also a growing priority in the
region to build resiliency.
Equity:
Marginalized groups are more likely to be affected
by climate change, pollution, and degradation of
natural resources. By protecting natural resources
for all residents, MEDD protects the health, safety,
and quality of life for at-risk groups.
Alignment: This goal seeks to align the region’s
hazard mitigation plan with area strategies
and initiatives for green energy, environmental
protection, and sustainable tourism. MEDD also
seeks to work with Wasatch Front Economic
Development District to build cooperative air and
water quality improvement strategies.

Environment: Population growth and increased
development has led to habitat loss, decreased
air and water quality, fragmentation, and the
depletion of water resources. Polluted air, water,
and land cause significant damage to plants and
wildlife. Climate change and development near
environmentally sensitive areas may increase
the likelihood of natural disasters like flooding,
landslides, avalanches, and wildfires, potentially
devastating nearby communities.
Explore Data

14

SWOT Analysis

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Engagements

#2 – Balance regional growth, tourism development, and the
protection of natural resources.
2.1: Use current data, best practices, and planning to catalyze action among regional partners.
2.1.1: Engage local universities and experts to complete a study on air and water pollution
and the impacts of regional growth on the environment.
2.1.2: Convene regional partners to review and plan action based on data, best practices,
and the hazard mitigation plan.
2.2: Expand sustainable tourism initiatives.
2.2.1: Convene regional tourism partners to catalyze sustainable tourism, tourism
development, and tourism diversification while ensuring actions complement local culture
and needs
2.2.2: Work with appropriate agencies and entities on recreation management plans
2.2.3: Strengthen support for tourism-related business resiliency and development.
2.3: Advocate for local governments to manage development with incentives, updated zoning and
building codes, and code enforcement.
2.3.1: Compile and distribute information to stakeholders regarding potential incentives
for the use of green energy sources and alternatives to vehicle transportation.
2.3.2: Provide stakeholders with best practices to prioritize open spaces through
incentives and green space requirements.
2.3.3: Promote the adoption and enforcement of codes that reduce pollution and limit
development near environmentally sensitive or protected areas.

The evaluation framework outlines timelines, metrics, and resources
to aid the MEDD in achieving the goals described in this strategy

See Evaulation Framework

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

15

LIVABILITY
THE PROBLEM: Changing dynamics in the region have created significant challenges for equitable access to and
affordability of housing, education, childcare, and healthcare. These challenges are being compounded by the
increased costs that local governments face in providing services.

IMPACT

APPROACH

Workforce: Workers are finding it increasingly
difficult to find affordable housing near their
jobs. Inaccessible and cost-prohibitive childcare
is constraining worker availability. Educational
pathways are not always well-aligned with
current and future market needs, and the price
of education continues to rise. The accelerated
population growth in the region also strains worker
access to healthcare.

Equity: MEDD aims to increase equitable access
and affordability of housing, education, childcare,
and healthcare.

Business: Issues related to housing, education,
childcare, and healthcare are creating a ripple
effect on businesses as it relates to workforce
attraction and retention. Beyond workforce, these
issues are also impacting consumers.

Explore Data

16

Resiliency: Planning for the future of housing,
education, childcare, and healthcare in the MEDD
region is critical for long-term resiliency. As rapid
growth continues, the region needs to take swift
and forward-looking action.

Alignment: Affordable housing challenges are
not unique to the MEDD region. In general, it is a
national trend, but one that is heightened in the
MEDD and surrounding regions. MEDD seeks to
align efforts through collaboration.

SWOT Analysis

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Engagements

#3 – Improve quality of life to support the region’s workforce
and communities.
3.1: Coordinate regional efforts to address housing challenges.
3.1.1: Provide resources to cities and counties for the completion of housing studies and
strategic plans.
3.1.2: Organize stakeholder planning sessions to address housing issues and share data,
best practices, and other relevant housing-related information.
3.1.3: Advocate for legislation that would allow local government the option to use a wider
range of housing tools.
3.1.4: Empower local governments to strategically address zoning concerns and prioritize
residential development sites near amenities and transportation hubs.
3.2: Increase equitable access and affordability of quality education and childcare that meets the needs of
students, families, and businesses.
3.2.1: Increase regional investment in early childhood education, K-12 schools, and
childcare availability, access, and affordability.
3.2.2: Expand and support collaboration between educational institutions, local
governments, and businesses to align pathways with market needs and retain students in
regional occupations.
3.3: Assess and address barriers to health and safety of residents, workers, and visitors.
3.3.1: Increase awareness of existing health and wellness program
3.3.2: Create a regional asset map of healthcare and emergency service locations,
capacity, and services.
3.3.3: Evaluate HPSA score and identify most common needs such as urgent care,
pharmacies, mental health care, and substance abuse resources.
3.3.4: Increase regional participation in training for needed healthcare and emergency services
occupations.
The evaluation framework outlines timelines, metrics, and resources
to aid the MEDD in achieving the goals described in this strategy

See Evaulation Framework

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

17

REGIONAL COLLABORATION
THE PROBLEM: Stakeholders stressed the importance of addressing the perceived lack of collaboration and
consensus on vision.

IMPACT

Business: In the previous sections, we have
outlined each focus area’s impact on business.
Lack of coordinated regional efforts to expand
economic diversification, build on regional industry
clusters, or increase global competitiveness.
Workforce: Many employees travel across
jurisdictions to work. When counties and
municipalities aren’t coordinating, the region
struggles to serve a commuting workforce.
Environment: Stakeholders attributed this
lack of collaboration to protective mentalities,
siloed information and initiatives, political
divisions, and a disconnect in values among
local governments and residents. This perceived
dissonance creates an environment in which
problem-solving and progress on a regional
level may be inhibited, compounding existing
challenges.

Explore Data

18

APPROACH

Resiliency: Collaboration enhances the ability to
respond to changes and disruptions by increasing
agility and access to support and resources.
Equity: MEDD’s approach to this goal will provide
a platform for a diverse group of stakeholders to
engage in regional collaboration.
Alignment: MEDD seeks to solidify a vision
and effectively support regional coordination.
Alignment, collaboration, and communication will
be improved across the three counties as well as
with state, federal, and other agencies, including
the Wasatch Front Economic Development District.

SWOT Analysis

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Engagements

#4 – Accelerate problem-solving and build economic resiliency
through increased collaboration.
4.1: Improve coordination between regional stakeholders, surrounding regions,
and the state.
4.1.1: Increase communication and host quarterly meetings to discuss and coordinate
approaches to priority issues and advance the achievement of the goals outlined in
this CEDS.
4.1.2: Partner with regional economic development organizations and other applicable
stakeholders to determine and address gaps in data and coordinate data sharing.
4.1.3: Identify funding sources for strategic action related to regional priorities.
4.1.4: Work with neighboring regions and the state to identify and overcome legislative
and process barriers to progress.
4.2: Advance efforts to further diversify the regional economy and increase competitiveness.
4.2.1: Continue to foster an effective entrepreneurship ecosystem with increased focus on
diversity, inclusion, and access to business support programs.
4.2.2: Work with regional universities and other innovation partners to provide technology
transfer and commercialization resources.

The evaluation framework outlines timelines, metrics, and resources
to aid the MEDD in achieving the goals described in this strategy

See Evaulation Framework

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

19

SWOT ANALYSIS
The region’s strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and
threats were identified through background research,
interviews with key leaders, and three stakeholder
workshops.

STRENGTHS

WEAKNESSES

Natural Landscape
Quality of Life
Rapid Economic Growth
Intellectual Capital
Tech Industry & Startups

Inconsistent Collaboration & Vision
Cost-Burdened Households
Transportation & Other Infrastructure
High Cost of Living

OPPORTUNITIES

THREATS

Infrastructure Improvements
Tourism Development
Address Housing Challenges
Increase Training & Coordination

Environmental Impacts
Unmanaged Growth
Complexity of Housing Issues
Workforce Misalignmen

STRENGTHS
NATURAL LANDSCAPE
The area’s landscape, with its towering peaks and lush valleys, is by far the most recognized strength
of the region. These natural spaces are magnetic for both tourists and residents. Various seasonal
attractions, recreational activities, and family-friendly amenities are a clear fit to leverage natural assets
for economic success.

QUALITY OF LIFE
Overall quality of life is another strength of the region. It is a desirable location for people to live or
relocate. The region has a good mix of rural and urban areas, amenities, and economic opportunities.
Stakeholders view the area as a safe place where citizens lead healthy and active lifestyles.

RAPID ECONOMIC GROWTH
In terms of both job growth and GRP, the region is booming, with strong indicators for continued growth
into the future. The region has also seen increased diversification of its industry mix.

INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
The region boasts a largely young and educated workforce. Area educational institutions are an obvious
contributor to this strength. The growth and retention of tech industry businesses and startups may
be influencing this trend, as well as benefiting from it. Another unique strength related to intellectual
capital is the extensive language diversity among the region’s population. With 130 languages spoken and
approximately 40% of the population speaking a second language, the region is primed to do business in
international markets.

TECH INDUSTRY & STARTUPS
The tech industry has significant traction in the MEDD. With strong tech-based knowledge occupation
clusters and employment share, as well as demonstrated success for entrepreneurs, the region presents
an attractive opportunity for tech startups.

22

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

WEAKNESSES
INCONSISTENT VISION & LACK OF COLLABORATION
A strongly perceived lack of consensus exists throughout the region, which stakeholders attribute in part
to protective mentalities, siloed environments, and political divisions. When asked to rank weaknesses,
stakeholders overwhelmingly listed inconsistent vision and lack of collaboration in their top four (4),
referencing a lack of coordination across jurisdictions. Many stakeholders pointed to contributing factors
such as a lack of awareness among elected officials and a disconnect in values among counties and
residents.

COST-BURDENED HOUSEHOLDS
The MEDD region has a significant share of cost-burdened households. This means that more than 30%
of household income is being used for housing (rent, mortgage, utilities). A quarter of home-owners with
a mortgage are considered cost-burdened. That number rises to nearly half of renters, with 1 in 5 renters
considered “extremely cost burdened”, spending 50% or more of their income on housing costs alone.
Stakeholders note a serious need for housing that workers and residents can afford.

TRANSPORTATION & OTHER INFRASTRUCTURE
Stakeholders report a lack of adequate investment in transportation, with a particular weakness of public
transit. There is a lack of connectivity across key areas of the region, compounded by other challenges
such as traffic congestion. The MEDD region appears to be strong in broadband access but lacking
updates to water, sewer, and power infrastructure.

HIGH COST OF LIVING
Stakeholders report a rising cost of living disproportional to wages. Contributing factors were noted such
as the affordability and accessibility of housing and childcare.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

23

OPPORTUNITIES
INFRASTRUCTURE IMPROVEMENTS
Transportation improvements are a top priority within the region. The issue has become a clear necessity
to support and sustain the mobilization of workforce, supply chains, and consumers. In particular, the
region has an opportunity to strengthen and expand public transit options.

ADDRESS HOUSING CHALLENGES
If the MEDD region takes measures to strategically address current housing challenges, they could
remove barriers and better meet the needs of not only low-income residents and seniors, but a wide
cross-section of workers. Opportunities exist to provide education, strengthen collaboration, smooth
processes, and increase the housing supply.

TOURISM DEVELOPMENT
The region has a significant opportunity to create positive economic impact through tourism
development. To draw tourists, stakeholders expressed their desire to see the region become a
destination for recreation and arts with everything from catalyzing professional sports to theatre,
filmmakers, and digital media groups. Tourism-related businesses are integral to this effort. Building
upon current assets, the MEDD region is already planning to expand tourism infrastructure, downtown
development, trail systems, and open spaces. Utah is confirmed as the 2034 Winter Olympics preferred
host. This will be a significant opportunity for tourism in all three counties in the region. The preservation
and protection of natural resources is critical to support this opportunity.

INCREASE TRAINING AND COORDINATION
Regional alignment could be improved across the three counties and with state, federal, and other
agencies. The MEDD region has the opportunity to solidify a vision, strengthen communications,
and organize efforts to pursue funding for outlined priorities. In order to effectively support regional
coordination, the MEDD could expand access to training for economic development organizations,
government officials, and adjacent stakeholders.

24

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

THREATS
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS
The MEDD region is at risk of natural disasters (wildfires, drought, storms, and more). The natural
resources that set the region apart could be affected by natural disasters, but also exist under the threat
of overuse, pollution, and poor management. Stakeholders were particularly concerned with water
supply and quality, air quality, and overuse of natural recreational assets.

UNMANAGED GROWTH
Regional growth is outpacing and straining transportation, infrastructure, municipal services, housing,
and more. Stakeholders report that some public officials are resistant to growth and lack education
on managing growth. Government entities throughout the region may not adapt and make necessary
adjustments to account for the rapid economic and population growth that is expected to continue.

COMPLEXITY OF HOUSING ISSUES
The complexity of housing issues can be daunting. A variety of market factors are at play, many of
which are beyond the control of regional leaders. While other actions could be taken to curb the crisis,
stakeholders expressed serious concerns that some MEDD communities are unwilling to tackle housing
challenges. If the housing market continues to strain supply and affordability and no action is taken, the
region could face great economic hardship.

WORKFORCE MISALIGNMENT
The workforce in the region is young and educated, but the available job types and employer
expectations may not align with the current skills and expectations of workers. Stakeholders report that
students (including Exchange Visitors with J-1 visas) are leaving the area post-graduation. A geographic
mismatch is also at play here, with workers and jobs in different locations, worsened by barriers such as
accessing and affording transportation, housing, and/or childcare.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

25

SUMMARY BACKGROUND
DEMOGRAPHIC OVERVIEW
TRANSPORTATION
NATURAL RESOURCES
LIVABILITY
REGIONAL COLLABORATION

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

DEMOGRAPHIC OVERVIEW
POPULATION
Exhibit 1: MEDD Population Projections: 2018 – 2033
Source: Lightcast Economic Overview Report 2023

2033
1,059,253

2029
963,263
2023
815,001

2018
697,233

2031
1,011,684

2027
914,228
2025
864,667

2020
740,627

The MEDD region of Utah has seen rapid growth over the past five years and is forecasted to see
continued steady growth at that same rate over the next 10. All development strategies for the region
should take this growth into consideration, ensuring that the region experiences managed and healthy
growth that supports both current and future residents.
Exhibit 2 displays the age and gender breakdown of the MEDD. It displays the number of males and
females in each age group, as well as the percentage of the total population each age group makes up.

28

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Exhibit 2: MEDD Population Breakdown by Age and Gender
Source: ACS S0101 Age and Sex

78770

Male

73065

48050 47943 46416

42449
30888 31371

21321 20401

Under18
8%

20 -2 9
21%

30-39
13%

Female

40-49
12%

26168 24686

50-59
8%

18585

22169

70 andover
6%

60-69
7%

RACE AND ETHNICITY

According to an analysis run by EMSI Lightcast, racial diversity is low in the region. The national average
for an area this size is 311,003 racially diverse people, while the region only has 121,725 racially diverse
individuals. Ensuring that communities are welcoming to and inclusive of residents of all racial and ethnic
backgrounds is an important consideration in terms of quality of life, but may also lead to more vibrant,
innovative, and entrepreneurial communities.1

Exhibit 3: Racial Breakdown of Total Regional Population

3% 3%

9%
4%

17%

83%

White

Black or African American

56%

American Indian and Alaska Native
Some other race

1

25%

Asian

Two or more races

https://www.nber.org/papers/w17640
COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

29

POVERTY
Exhibit 5: 2021 MEDD Percent of Population Reported Falling Below Poverty Line
in the Past 12 Months
Source :2021 ACS 5-Year Estimates S1901 Income in the Past 12 Months

INCOME AND WAGES
Exhibit 6: Percent change in Median Household Income by County
Source: American Community Survey INCOME IN THE PAST 12 MONTHS (IN 2021/2016
INFLATION-ADJUSTED DOLLARS) 5-Year Estimates

30

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Exhibit 7: MEDD Population by Reported Annual Wages, 2022
Source: American Community Survey

Exhibit 8: Living Wage Calculations
Source: MIT Living Wage Calculation, 2023

These living wage calculations are based on the hourly income for a full-time worker in the given
region, or 2,080 hours annually. The hourly rate is calculated per person, meaning in a household with
2 adults who are both working, the two incomes would each need to be earning the wage displayed.
According to the American Community Survey’s 2021 5-year estimates, the average household size
in the Mountainland region range from 3.5 in Summit county, 3.7 in Wasatch County, and 3.9 in Utah
County. This suggests that the average household requires between $40 and $50 an hour, or $83,200 and
$104,000 annually to sustain a living wage, with single parents the most heavily burdened.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

31

TRANSPORTATION
HIGHWAYS AND INTERSTATES

Three Interstates run through the Mountainland region, with I 15 running through Utah County, and I
80/84 running through Summit County.
Exhibit 9: Interstates by County

Exhibit 10: Map of Utah Interstates
Source: utah.com/maps-brochures/maps-state-highway-map

32

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Utah County’s Transportation Plan TransPlan50 has developed a long-range regional transportation
focused on urban Utah County. It includes projects for a coordinated system of roadway, transit, and
active transportation facilities through the year 2050. The plan has been updated regularly and has been
expanded through the Regional Transportation Plan to reflect progress, population growth, and changing
environmental factors and priorities of the Mountainland Region, with 4 primary goals: enhanced
roadway grid network; expanded freeways, expressways, and arterials; robust regional transit system;
and connected active transportation network.
MAG also oversees multiple transportation planning and support programs. This includes the Station
Area Planning Program, which is responsible for certifying city-led Station Area Plans (SAP), which are
mandated for cities with FrontRunner, TRAX/Streetcar, or BRT stations. Other programs include the
Corridor Preservation Program and the a number of projects under the Transportation Improvement
Program, a 5-year funded construction program that MAG provides about 300 million of the 1.7 billion
dollar funding.

RAILROADS

Utah County is served by the Union Pacific Railroad, which operates freight rail services throughout the
county. The rail line is part of a larger network that connects various regions within Utah and across
the United States. This key transportation asset plays a crucial role in transporting goods and materials
across the country, and its operations in Utah County support local industries and businesses. The rail
line facilitates the transportation of commodities such as agricultural products, raw materials, finished
goods, and more.
Exhibit 11: Map of Union Pacific Rail
Service Nationwide

Exhibit 12: Map of Utah Railroads
Source: SGID Open Data Downloads and API

Source: Union Pacific

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

33

AIRPORTS

Utah County is home to the Provo Municipal
Airport (PVU) which serves a catchment area that
extends far beyond the Mountainland region. PVU
is Utah’s second busiest commercial airport and
offers airline service that connects passengers
to destinations nationwide. The airport has two
runways; its primary runway is 8,600 feet long
and its secondary runway is 6,600 feet long. The
airport has a Fixed-Based Operator (FBO) that
provides services to private, corporate, and general
aviation aircraft, with offerings including fueling,
hangar space, and maintenance facilities. In 2022
PVU opened a fourth passenger gate in its 70,000
square foot passenger terminal, allowing the
airport to be served by two commercial service
carriers, Allegiant Air and Breeze Airways. With its
recent growth, PVU now offers nonstop service
to 12 U.S. destinations and sees more than
420,000 passenger enplanements. As of 2023, PVU
commercial service offerings link the Mountainland
region to these twelve cities:

Additionally, Wasatch County is served by the
Heber Valley Airport (Russ McDonald Field) (36U).
This general aviation airport accommodates private
and charter aircraft and is primarily used for
recreational flying and private aviation activities.
It is important to note, the greater region is wellserved by Salt Lake City International Airport (SLC),
which is approximately a 30–40-minute drive
from Summit County. SLC is the largest airport
in Utah and offers a wide range of domestic and
international flights. The airport features three
terminals and serves as a hub for Delta Air Lines,
which offers numerous domestic and international
flights. In 2019, prior to COVID-19, SLC recorded
over 26 million passengers, making it one of the
busiest airports in the western United States.
Popular destinations include:

Los Angeles

Seattle

Denver

Europe

Chicago

Latin America
Asia

Austin

Orlando

Atlanta

Chicago

Phoenix (PHX & AZA)

New York

Houston

Portland

Las Vegas

San Diego

Nashville

San Francisco

Orange County

34

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

PUBLIC TRANSIT
A larger number of vehicles on the road causes increased strain, including traffic congestion and
pollution. Personal vehicles can be costly and vary frequently with the price of fuel, parking fees,
maintenance, and insurance premiums. According to the American Public Transportation Association’s
(APTA) Transit Savings Report, individuals who ride public transit instead of driving can save an average
of $13,000 annually, or $1,100/month. Public transit fares are more consistent and therefore easier
to budget. Each of the three counties in the region has public transit assets. Increased public transit,
improvements, and connectivity between counties may be on the horizon.
Utah County
Utah County operates a public transportation
system called the Utah Valley Express (UVX), which
is a bus rapid transit (BRT) system. The UVX system
serves the cities of Provo and Orem, and runs along
designated corridors with dedicated bus lanes,
providing faster and more efficient transportation.
The system has several routes, including
connections to major transit hubs, universities, and
commercial areas.
Wasatch County
High Valley Transit operates as a public transit
provider in Wasatch County, offering fixed bus
routes and a “micro” ride service that offers
flexible pickup and drop off locations. High Valley
Transit began in Summit County and has recently
expanded to include Wasatch County.

Summit County
In 2021, Summit County created High Valley Transit
in response to an identified need to expand transit
options beyond Park City. High Valley Transit
operates as an independent transit district formed
by Summit County but overseen by a board of
trustees. The service provides fixed bus routes and
a “micro” ride service offering flexible pickup and
drop off locations.
Park City remains served by Park City Transit
System, which provides free transportation within
city limits. Additionally, the UTA bus system
provides regional connections to and from
locations in the county.

The Utah Transit Authority (UTA) also provides
limited bus services connecting some areas in
Wasatch County, primarily serving the town of
Herber City. UTA’s Route 6 connects Herber City to
neighboring Park City and Salt Lake City.
COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

35

MULTI-MODAL TRANSPORTATION OPTIONS

Utah County
Utah County offers various multi-modal
transportation options, including bike and walking
trails. The county has an extensive network of bike
lanes and paths, providing safe routes for cyclists.
The Provo River Parkway Trail is a popular trail
that runs along the Provo River, offering scenic
views and recreational opportunities for walkers
and cyclists. The Murdock Canal Trail is another
prominent trail in Utah County, providing a multiuse path for hiking, cycling, and horse-back riding.
Additionally, the Provo River Delta Restoration
Project aims to create a park incorporating the
location’s natural assets and featuring trails and
recreational amenities.
Wasatch County
Over the past decade, Wasatch County has a
growing emphasis on multi-modal transportation
and recreational trails. Herber Valley is known for
its scenic beauty and offers several walking and
biking trails. The Herber Valley Trails Initiative
aims to build on these assets to develop a
comprehensive trail system throughout the
county, connecting several communities to
multimodal transit options. The existing Midway
City trail system, which includes the Dutch Hollow
Trail and the Homestead Trail also offer walking
and biking options in the county. For scenic
landscapes, Jordanelle State Park offers additional
opportunities for walking, hiking, and biking.

36

Summit County
Summit County is known for its extensive multimodal transportation options, including cycling
and walking trails. Park City, a popular tourist
destination within the county, has an extensive
network of biking and walking trails, including
the famous Park City Rail Trail, which spans
approximately 28 miles. Beyond Park City, the
Summit County trail system includes notable
trails such as the Round Valley Trail System,
Glenwild Loop, and Historic Union Pacific Rail
Trail. The County’s commitment to multi-modal
transportation is detailed in the Summit County
Non-Motorized Transportation Plan, which aims to
enhance and expand the existing network.
The plan aims to establish a network of regional
trails that span the county and connect with Salt
Lake and Wasatch counties. In 2020, there was
a significant increase in trail usage compared to
previous years. This surge in usage is believed to
be a result of the “Stay Safe, Stay Home” measures
and social distancing practices during the
pandemic, as residents sought safer ways to stay
active and maintain their health.
Additionally, there are local Active Transportation
(AT) plans in place for various areas, including
Eagle Mountain, Lehi, Orem, Pleasant Grove, Provo,
South Utah County, Summit County, and Wasatch
County. These localized plans likely outline specific
strategies and initiatives to promote and enhance
active transportation within each respective area.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

COMMUTING PATTERNS
Exhibit 12: Regional Commuting Patterns Between Counties Within the Region
Source: Lightcast Commuting Patterns Report, 2022

Exhibit 13: Top 10 Counties by Net Commuters In and Out of Mountainland Region
Source: Lightcast Commuting Patterns Report, 2022

ALIGNMENT
Trans50
Active Transportation Plan
Regional Transportation Plan (RTP)
Technical Assistance to Governments Program (TAG)
Transportation Improvement Program (TIP)

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

37

CLIMATE AND ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Utah County
Utah County faces several environmental
challenges, including air pollution and water quality
issues. The region experiences episodes of high
levels of particulate matter and ozone pollution,
primarily due to industrial emissions, vehicle
exhaust, and geographical factors like inversions.
The county is also facing water pollution concerns
caused by urban runoff, agricultural activities, and
industrial discharges.

Summit County
Summit County, located in the mountainous
region of Utah, faces several environmental
challenges, including forest health and wildfire
risks. The county is susceptible to wildfires due to
a combination of factors, including dry conditions,
dense vegetation, and the proximity of human
settlements to forested areas. One of the county’s
largest cities, Park City, has established 6 key
sustainability principles in an effort to better
support the region’s environmental needs and face

Wasatch County
Wasatch County, known for its scenic beauty
and outdoor recreational opportunities, is
facing environmental concerns related to rapid
urbanization and its impact on natural resources.
The county’s population growth and increased
development has led to habitat loss, fragmentation,
and the depletion of water resources.

growing challenges. These include:

Park the car
Reusable vs. Single-Use
Buy local
Embrace your heritage
Leave no trace
Respect for animals

WATER AND SEWER
The region relies on various water sources,
including rivers, lakes, reservoirs, and groundwater.
Major sources include the Colorado River,
the Provo River, and local reservoirs like Deer
Creek Reservoir and Jordanelle Reservoir. Water
treatment is typically managed by local water
districts, municipalities, and in some instances
special service districts. These entities oversee the
operation, maintenance, and planning of water
systems within respective jurisdictions.
Given the arid nature of Utah, water conservation
and sustainability efforts are crucial. The Utah
Department of Environmental Quality is focused
on supporting local and regional efforts of water
related environmental stewardship. Regular
monitoring and testing are conducted to identify
potential contamination issues, and efforts

38

are being made across the state to protect
water quality through regulations, watershed
management, and pollution prevention strategies.
Additionally, the state agency provides additional
public education campaigns, water-efficient
landscaping practices, and the implementation of
water reuse and recycling technologies.Baseline
water stress measures a region’s ratio of total
water withdrawals to available renewable surface
and groundwater supplies. Withdrawals include
domestic, industrial, irrigation, and livestock
water use. It is expressed as a percentage of the
total flow available annually and serves as a good
indicator for broader water risks. Higher water risk
can lead to depletion of surface and groundwater
resources and increased competition among users,
resulting in water shortages.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Exhibit 14: Baseline Water Stress
Source: Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas

CLIMATE CHANGE AND EQUITY

The growth of the MEDD region and climate change both have implications for certain populations. Often
due to socioeconomic status, housing challenges, location, transportation issues, and access to services,
poor and marginalized groups are disproportionally at risk of displacement and exposure to negative
impacts of climate change.2

SUSTAINABLE TOURISM

Few industry clusters are more important to the diverse economy of the state of Utah than tourism.
The industry struggles with disruptions to travel, tourism, and labor force. To build sector resiliency and
sustainability, the MEDD region has partnered with the Wasatch Front Economic Development District
to form a Wasatch Range Leisure & Hospitality Coalition. Through this effort, collaborative workforcecentered tactics are already being advanced to support the industry. The coalition is also working to
increase access to tourism assets through transit, trail, and gateway improvements as well as adaptive
improvements for people with disabilities.
The MEDD region aims to build on the strength of the coalition’s efforts, as well as those happening
within the region at the local level, especially the sustainable tourism efforts underway in Summit County.
Utah has been confirmed as the preferred host of the 2034 Winter Olympics. The region needs to assess
and prepare for the opportunities and threats that come with this honor. The impact of the event will
disrupt the normal ebb and flow of tourism with a more abrupt influx and exit of visitors. The balance of
accommodating visitor demands on infrastructure and amenities with protection of resources and longterm sustainability is critical.
The Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation industry grew regionwide in this time period, with the smallest
growth seen in Summit County. It should be noted that of all the counties in the region, Summit County’s
economy is the most reliant on tourism-related industries, with the two industries displayed above
constituting the county’s largest industries by number of jobs. This suggests that, because the sector is
already well-developed, there is less opportunity for growth proportionally, compared to Wasatch and
Utah Counties.
Similarly, Summit County was the only county to experience a decline in number of jobs in the
Accommodation and Food Services Industry. This may be relate to the county’s pre-existing dependence
on the industry when compared to the other counties in the region, and the devastating and lasting
blow to the Tourism economy nationwide that resulted from the COVID-19 Pandemic. Wasatch and Utah
counties experienced growth in the industry of 33% and 26%, respectively.
2
Social Dimensions of Climate Change, The World Bank https://www.worldbank.org/en/topic/social-dimensions-of-climate-change#:~:text=Certain%20social%20groups%20are%20particularly,and%20other%20socially%20marginalized%20groups
COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

39

ALIGNMENT
Utah Integrated Report on Water Quality
Utah Agricultural Statistics Annual Report
Wasatch Mountain State Park
Utah County Environmental Health
Heber Valley Sustainability Efforts

Exhibit 15: Visitor Spending by County, 2022
Sources: Kem C. Gardner Policy Institute University of Utah, US Census Bureau

Exhibit 16: State Defined Key Tourism Industry Sectors, GRP Contribution
Source: Lightcast Regional Economic Report, 2023

40

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Exhibit 17: Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation Industry Growth 2017-2022
Source: Lightcast Regional Economic Report, 2023

Exhibit 18: Accommodation and Food Services Industry Growth 2017-2022
Source: Lightcast Regional Economic Report, 2023

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

41

LIVABILITY
HOUSING
Housing Types
The housing mix across the region is dominated by single-family, largely detached, homes. Wasatch
county has the highest percentage of single-family homes at nearly 90%. Studies have shown that
neighborhoods and communities with high percentages of this type of housing are more susceptible to
economic downturns. Efforts to diversify the housing mix are likely to improve economic sustainability.
However, communities largely dependent on tourism are also heavily impacted by the state of the
economy regardless of their housing mix.

Exhibit 19: Share of Units by Structure Density
Source: ACS 5-Year 2017-2021

Exhibit 20: Regional Housing Units by Tenure

Exhibit 21: County-level Housing Units by Tenure

Source: ACS 5-Year 2017-2021

Source: ACS 5-Year 2017-2021

As a region, housing tenure is slightly higher than
the national ratio of 65:35 own-to-rent. In Summit
and Wasatch Counties has a larger percentage of
owner-occupied units, which is not uncommon
in tourism and resort areas where much of the
rental units are occupied only during peak seasons.

42

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Exhibit 22: Vacancy Rates by County
Source: ACS 5-Year 2017-2021

The for-sale market is extremely tight
throughout the MEDD region, with
estimated vacancy rates below 1% in Utah
and Wasatch Counties. The rental market,
however, shows significant differences
between the counties. This is likely related
to the seasonal workforce that make up
a large percentage of renters around the
tourism and resort areas in Summit and
Wasatch Counties. The lack of available
supply within the housing stock is likely
to continue to drive up pricing in both the
rental and for-sale markets.

Home Prices
Home prices have significantly increased in recent years. Exhibit 4 shows the month-to-month changes
in median home sale price. In Utah county, where there are considerably more homes purchased in a
given month, the monthly figures seem more stable, but even here the median sale price for a home has
risen by nearly $200,000 in just five years. In the heavy tourist areas, these increases are even greater, as
demonstrated by the median sale price in Summit County, that has nearly doubled in the same five-year
period.

Exhibit 23: Median Home Sale Price by County
Source: Redfin, MLS

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

43

Monthly Rents
The cost to rent in the region is also quite high, where the median gross rent across was estimated in
2021 to be between $1,199 and $1,634 for the three-county region. Utah County, with its significantly
higher population of year-round residents, offers the lowest rent in the region. Given the trends in
charged rent over the recent years, current rent prices are likely to be higher than the estimates
represented in Exhibit 24.

Exhibit 24: County Market
Asking Rent by Bedroom
CostarTM 2023

Overall
Studio
1 bedrooms
2 bedrooms
3 bedrooms

Summit
County
Summit
$1,175
$1,278
$1,379
$1,942
$1,873

Exhibit 25: County Median Household Income
by Tenure
Source: ACS 5-Year 2017-2021

Wasatch
County
Wasatch
$1,218
$1,222
$1,578
$2,311

Utah
County
Utah
$1,010
$905
$1,032
$1,394
$1,616

Throughout the MEDD region, incomes for
renter-occupied households fall significantly
under those of owner-occupied households.
The difference is most stark in Utah County
where renter-occupied households earn
less than half of owner-occupied household
earnings. This discrepancy in incomes is
significant, in part, because housing costs for
renters are not proportionately lower than
those for owners.
As Exhibit 26 demonstrates, housing costs for
renters is not significantly lower than housing
costs for homeowners. The market for rental
units places a disproportionate burden on
renters. Likely, this imbalance is due a supply
of rental units that is insufficient to meet
demand, thereby driving up rent.

44

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Housing Cost Burden Analysis
The Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) determines that a household
spending more than 30% of their household
income on housing costs is considered housing
cost burdened. This means that the cost of
housing is likely causing the household difficulty in
affording other necessities such as food, clothing,
transportation, and medical care. Households
spending more than 50% of their income on
housing costs are considered “extremely cost
burdened.”

Throughout the MEDD region, roughly a quarter of
households with a mortgage meet the definition
of housing cost burdened. These figures are
slightly higher than the state figure of 23%. This is
a significant percentage and is likely limiting the
economic conditions of thousands of the region’s
residents.

Exhibit 26: Median
Monthly Housing Costs
by Tenure
Source: ACS 5-Year 2017-2021

Exhibit 27: Share of Housing
Units with a Mortgage that are
Cost Burdened
Source: ACS 5-Year 2017-2021

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

45

However, the effect of housing costs
disproportionately affects renting households,
for which nearly half face challenges in affording
basic necessities of everyday life. The full effect
of housing costs appears even more stark when
looking at extreme cost burden. As Exhibit 28
demonstrates, roughly one-in-every-five renting
households throughout the region are spending
more than half of their income on housing costs.
This stands in comparison to a national figure
of over 40% of renter households experiencing
housing cost burden from 2019-2021, per the
American Community Survey.3

Exhibit 28: Share of Renter Households that
are Cost Burdened
Source: ACS 5-Year 2017-2021

The strength of the regions’ cost burden data in
comparison to national figures should not dissuade
partners and stakeholders from taking action to
reduce the occurrence of housing cost burden.
Unsurprisingly, the households most likely to face housing cost burden are those within the lowest
income brackets. But even households earning up to $75,000 per year are somewhat likely to struggle to
afford necessities.

Exhibit 29: Share of Owner-Occupied Housing Cost Burdened Households by Income
Source: ACS 5-Year 2017-2021

3
https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2022/renters-burdened-by-housing-costs.html#:~:text=DEC.,by%20the%20U.S.%20
Census%20Bureau.

46

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Exhibit 30: Share of
Renter-Occupied
Housing Cost
Burdened Households
by Income
Source: ACS 5-Year 2017-2021

Utah County
Utah County, encompassing cities like Provo, Orem,
and Lehi, has witnessed substantial growth in the
housing market. The median home price in Utah
County has been steadily increasing over the past
few years, reflecting the strong demand and limited
housing supply. As of the latest available data, the
median home price in Utah County has increased
by approximately 8% compared to the previous
year. This increase in housing sales prices can be
attributed to factors such as population growth, a
thriving job market, and the relative affordability
of homes in the area. Utah County offers a diverse
range of housing options, including single-family
homes, townhouses, and apartments, catering to
various buyer preferences and budgets.
The high demand for housing in Utah County has
created a competitive market, often resulting in
shorter average days on the market and multiple
offers on desirable properties. The rental market
in areas like Provo remains strong due to the
presence of Utah Valley and Brigham Young
University.

Wasatch County
Wasatch County, encompassing cities like Heber
City and Midway, has experienced significant
growth in its housing market, particularly due to
its scenic location and recreational opportunities.
The median home price in Wasatch County has
also witnessed an upward trend, with an increase
of approximately 10% compared to the previous
year.
The desirability of the area, proximity to Park City,
and availability of outdoor activities contribute to
the higher housing sales prices. Wasatch County
offers a range of housing options, including singlefamily homes, luxury properties, and vacation
rentals, attracting both primary residents and
buyers looking for second homes. The demand for
housing, especially for vacation properties, has led
to a competitive market and the potential for price
appreciation.

ALIGNMENT
Wasatch County Housing Needs Assessment
Wasatch County Moderate Income Housing

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

47

Summit County
Summit County, encompassing cities like Park
City and Coalville, is known for its renowned
ski resorts and outdoor recreational amenities,
attracting buyers from both within and outside
the state. The housing market in Summit County
is characterized by higher-end properties, and the
median home price has seen a significant increase
of approximately 12% compared to the previous
year. The popularity of Summit County as a tourist
destination, coupled with its proximity to Salt

Lake City, contributes to the strong demand and
higher housing sales prices. The county offers a
variety of housing options, including luxury homes,
condominiums, and vacation rentals, catering to
the preferences of upscale buyers.
The market in Summit County has experienced
notable interest from out-of-state buyers looking
for second homes or investment properties.

FAMILY SUPPORTS
As home to a diverse resident population in terms
of age and household structure, the Mountainland
Region aims to support families and households at
all stages of life through public programming and
community partnerships.
These services are essential for the advancement
of economic development goals as they represent
key segments of the workforce as well as allowing
for those who may otherwise be serving as
caretakers in a non-professional capacity to
participate in the workforce, expanding economic
activity and household incomes regionwide.

To support childcare providers, the State of Utah
facilitates a quality rating system. Providers
may advance through the four levels of quality
by meeting criteria in five categories. Providers
who score high may qualify for higher subsidies
or additional grant funding to support pay for
childcare employees or other key functions of the
childcare operation.

Childcare4
Residents or households who make up to 85%
of the State Median Income may be eligible for
subsidized childcare. Childcare assistance is
paid directly to childcare providers on behalf of
qualifying families and is eligible for renewal every
12 months.

Aging5
The Mountainland region aims to provide
comprehensive options for aging to residents and
caregivers. MAG Aging and Family Services serves
as the region’s key agency for support regarding
aging. The agency connects residents and
caregivers to programming including meal services,
utility assistance, transportation assistance,
community engagement opportunities, and more.

Families may use a state-sponsored interactive
tool to search for eligible childcare providers in
the geography of their choice. This tool also allows
families to see information about a provider’s
license type, quality rating, and information about
accepted subsidies.

The state of Utah is also embarking on the
development of a new Childcare Solutions and
Workforce Productivity Plan.

MAG Aging and Family Services also focuses on
educational and support services for caregivers
of aging residents, who may require targeted
programming to provide quality care and manage
the emotional demands of caregiving.

4

References: Childcare Assistance Overview, Childcare Provider Search Tool, Utah Childcare Quality System Factsheet

5

Regional Aging and Family Services

48

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

EDUCATION
Higher Education
Utah, Wasatch, and Summit Counties are home
to notable educational institutions that cater to a
diverse range of students.
Brigham Young University (BYU), located in Provo,
is a private university owned and operated by
The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
With total enrollment at nearly 35,000, BYU
offers a wide range of academic programs across
various disciplines. The university’s extensive
and celebrated programming includes business,
engineering, education, health sciences, law,
humanities, fine arts, social sciences, accounting,
entrepreneurship, nursing, engineering, and law.
Utah Valley University is the largest public
university in the state of Utah, located in Orem.
Total enrollment as of fall 2021 was 41,262
undergraduate and graduate students. The
university prides itself as being one of only a small
number of universities that offers a dual-mission
model, combining a traditional teaching university
with vocational programs typical of a community
college. UVU reports that 30% of students are
nontraditional (25+ years old), 17% support at least
one child, and 37% of students are first generation,
alongside 12,080 high school concurrent
enrollment students as of fall 2019.

6

K-12 Education
When analyzing the school districts in Utah County,
Wasatch County, and Summit County relative to
the state of Utah and the rest of the United States,
the region stands out as highly-ranked and highperforming.
In Utah County, Alpine, Nebo, and Provo school
districts have consistently been recognized as
top-performing districts. With a strong emphasis
on academic achievement, it has achieved high
graduation rates, test scores, and college readiness
indicators. According to recent data, the district’s
graduation rate is above the state average of 90%,
showcasing its commitment to student success.
Wasatch County School District, located in Wasatch
County, has also demonstrated commendable
performance. While specific statistics may vary,
the district has consistently placed among the
top districts in Utah, with students showcasing
high levels of proficiency in various subjects.
The district’s commitment to providing quality
education is evident in its students’ achievements.
In Summit County, Park City and South Summit
school districts have also achieved noteworthy
success. Park City School District has received
recognition for its exceptional educational
standards. It has consistently boasted high
graduation rates and college acceptance rates,
positioning it as one of the top-performing districts
in the state.6

Findings based on analysis from the Utah State Board of Education ‘Utah School Report Card(s)’
COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

49

In terms of performance, there is variation among test score results in the region’s districts. Based on
2023 data released by the Utah State Board of Education7, Wasatch School District achieves the highest
proficiency markings, with roughly 60% proficiency across subject areas.
School performance in the region has been studied relative to household income and threats to
public health. Researchers at the University of Utah found that lower test scores at Utah schools were
correlated to poorer air quality among school locations and student populations, which was in turn
correlated to low-income households among the student population.8
The Unified Economic Opportunity Commission reports that only 34% of Utah kindergartners have
access to full-day programs compared to an average of 82% across the U.S. The UEOC also reports that
full-day kindergarten students achieve between two and four times the academic progress of half-day
kindergarten students.

Exhibit 31: School District Spending Per Student, Teacher/Student Ratio,
and Average Teacher Pay
Source: Utah School Spending Report Fiscal Year 2021-2022

7
8

https://www.schools.utah.gov/data/reports
https://www.mdpi.com/1660-4601/17/18/6931

50

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Exhibit 32: School District RISE Assessment Scores (Grades 3-8)
Source: Utah State Board of Education

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

51

Exhibit 33 MEDD Educational Attainment Levels
Source: ACS S1501 Educational Attainment

Exhibit 34: Regional School Enrollment
Source: Lightcast 2023

52

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

HEALTHCARE
Healthcare infrastructure is a critical component
of quality of life and population health, which
in turn informs economic development efforts
and priorities. Healthcare access is tied to talent
development and retention and speaks broadly to
the strength of service provision throughout the
region.
Additionally, healthcare represents a top industry
and many jobs in the region. The strength of the
healthcare industry in the region has an impact
beyond health outcomes.
Population Health Indices
A number of federal and state indices exist to
measure population health, typically accounting
for a number of factors including life expectancy,
prevalence of various types of diseases, behaviors
linked to health outcomes such as smoking
and movement, environmental factors such as
pollution, and socioeconomic factors such as
educational attainment and poverty.
The Robert Wood Johnson Foundation supports
one such index through the University of
Wisconsin’s Population Health Institute.

The program, known as County Health Rankings
and Roadmaps, measures US counties based on
data described above and ranks counties based
on how they perform against other counties in the
same state. In this index, Utah County ranks fourth
of all counties in the state, Wasatch County ranks
first, and Summit ranked third. When compared
to state and national figures, these counties are
reported fewer people uninsured (Wasatch’s rate
matched the state figure), higher levels of physical
activity, and fewer behaviors linked to poor health
outcomes, including excessive drinking and
physical inactivity, especially when compared with
national figures.
Another index, the Utah Healthy Places Index
provided through the Utah Department of Health
& Human Services in partnership with the Public
Health Alliance of Southern California, combines
20 characteristics into a single score and visualizes
the data using an interactive map. Some areas are
excluded from analysis based on the geography
used to visualize the data, but the region generally
scores high, with some lower scores concentrated
around Provo.

Exhibit 35: Image of Utah Healthy Places Index Interactive Map
Source: Utah Healthy Places Index

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

53

Hospitals and Medical Centers
The region is home to several hospitals and medical centers with notable healthcare providers including
Intermountain Health and University of Utah Health.

Utah County
Utah County contains the regions
most concentrated supply of hospitals
and medical centers, including Utah
Valley Hospital in Provo, a renowned
medical center offering comprehensive
healthcare services. Intermountain
Health operates seven hospitals in Utah
county.

Wasatch County
Wasatch County is served by the Heber
Valley Hospital, a modern facility that
provides a wide range of medical
services to the local community.
Summit County
Summit County is home to the Park City
Hospital, a critical access hospital that
offers emergency care, surgical services,
and various outpatient services.

Primary Care, Specialty Centers, & Clinics

Local Government Initiatives

Primary care services are available in all three
counties, with numerous clinics and healthcare
providers offering family medicine, internal
medicine, and general practitioner services.
These providers play a crucial role in providing
comprehensive and preventive healthcare services
to individuals and families.

Utah County, Wasatch County, and Summit
County are independently engaged in efforts to
promote public health through local government
initiatives and efforts. These efforts range from
mosquito abatement to vaccination clinics and
are primarily responsive to resident needs. Local
health departments may be valuable partners in
the implementation of the CEDS.

The three counties have numerous specialty
centers and clinics that provide specialized care in
areas such as cardiology, orthopedics, oncology,
pediatrics, and more. These centers offer a range
of diagnostic, treatment, and preventive services to
address specific healthcare needs.

PUBLIC SAFETY

According to an analysis by EMSI Lightcast, the
region has 8.79 property crimes per 1,000. This
figure falls well below the national average national
rate of 17.8 per 1,000, indicating a relatively safe
regional environment.

Community health centers, rural health clinics, and
veteran’s medical centers exist to address gaps in
healthcare access among potentially vulnerable
populations, and can be located using state
resources.
Utah, Wasatch, and Summit counties also have
resources dedicated to behavioral and mental
health services. These include counseling centers,
psychiatric facilities, and outpatient programs that
address various mental health conditions and
provide support for individuals and families.

54

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

REGIONAL COLLABORATION
Throughout the CEDS planning process, stakeholders frequently discussed regional collaboration. The
state of Utah is also pushing for collaboration through unified connections. In its role as a convener, MAG
is working to build awareness, trust, and transparency among a network of key stakeholders including
government officials, economic developers, business leader, educational institutions, healthcare, and
other civic and community organizations. In addition to the region-wide collaboration outlined in the
strategic action plan, MAG will also be convening an Economic Advisory Group for the state’s Regional
Economic Collaborative.

COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES AND
DISADVANTAGES
The MEDD region vital to state of Utah’s economy.
Among the seven regions in the state, MEDD is the
fastest growing and performing well across the
indicators outlined in the Coordinated Action Plan.
The MEDD Region is strongest in the “International”
indicator, which includes global trade and export
of products and services, direct foreign investment,
cultural amenities, ethnic influences, languages
spoken, access to world markets, learning
opportunities, awareness of region worldwide,
and ease of travel. The number of multilingual
households in Utah is increasing with about 15%
speaking a language other than English at home.
About 40% of the population of Utah County
speaks a second language.
The “Intellectual Capital” and “Investment”
indicators were tied as other strengths of the
region. “Innovation” and “Interest” followed, with
“Infrastructure” listed as the region’s weakest
indicator. However, the MEDD region is performing
comparatively well among other regions in the
state across all six indicators. The plan highlighted
the MEDD region’s top performance for Broadband
Adoption Index, Average High-Tech Industry
Employment Share, and Tech-Based Knowledge
Occupation Clusters.

The region’s weakest performance was related to
the share of cost-burdened households, patent
technology diffusion index, which measures
the rate at which technology is adopted by a
population, and 2019 Visitor Spending per Capita.
The largest disadvantages of the region are due to
its massive population growth rate straining the
capacity of infrastructure and other community
supports. Each municpality in the region is
responsible for the development and maintenance
of its own infrastructure. The Coordinated Action
Plan suggests that the region prioritize investment
in housing, transportation, childcare, connection
with educational institutions, open space,
economic mobility, and underserved populations.

ECONOMIC DIVERSITY

The state of Utah is prioritizing target industries
such as Advanced Manufacturing, Aerospace
and Defense, Financial Services, Life Sciences
and Healthcare, and Software and Information
Technology. The Coordinated Action Plan noted
the MEDD Region possesses a large number of
subsectors in each of these industries.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

55

INNOVATION AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
The MEDD region has a strong entrepreneurship ecosystem. Businesses can access a variety of resources
such as:

Orem Business Alliance

SMART Lab

American Fork Chamber

University of Utah Manufacturing

Eagle Mountain Chamber

Extension Partnership

Heber Valley Chamber

Utah SCORE

Point of the Mountain Chamber

Governor’s Office of Economic

Payson and Santaquin Area Chamber

Development (GOED)

Pleasant Grove-Lindon Chamber

Economic Development Corporation of

Spanish Fork and Salem Chamber

Utah (EDCUTAH)

Springville Mapleton Chamber

Mountainland Small Business Loan

Utah Valley Chamber

Program

Park City Chamber

Business Loans of Utah

Orem Small Business Development

Orem City Revolving Loan Fund

Center

Utah Microloan Fund

UVU Business Resource Center

Exhibit 36: New Business Starts
Source: US Chamber of Commerce

Summit1
Summit
County
Wasatch
Wasatch
County
Utah
Utah
County
Total

56

2021
,439
933
15,705
18,077

2020
1,248
765
12,460
14,473

2019
1,114
711
12,848
14,673

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

2018
1,141
688
11,473
13,302

2017
973
604
10,657
12,234

Exhibit 36: Innovation Index Capacity Profile Summary
Source: StatsAmerica Innovation Intelligence Data

Index

Human Capital
& Knowledge
Creation

Business
Dynamics

Business
Profile

Employment &
Productivity

Economic
Wellbeing

Score

Key Takeaways
Patterns of establishment formation and composition indicate a high level
of business competitiveness.

164.5 (high)

•
•

Top measures:
Bachelor’s degree attainment
Average High-Tech Industry
Employment Share

Patterns of establishment formation and composition indicate a high level
of business competitiveness.
178.8 (high)
•
•

Top measures:
Average High-Tech, Early-in-Life-Cycle Establishment Ratio
Traded Sector Establishment Births to All Establishment Ratio
The relative availability of resources for entrepreneurs and businesses is
high in this area.

147.6 (high)
•
•

Top measures:
Average Annual High-Tech Industry Venture Capital (scaled by GDP)
Average Annual Venture Capital Deals (scaled by GDP)
Industry performance in Mountainland Economic Development District
indicate a high level of positive outcomes from existing economic activity.

128.9 (high)
•
•

Top measures:
Job Growth to Population Growth Ratio
Patent Diversity
As measured by residential internet connectivity and income,
this area has a high standard of living.

164.0 (high)
•
•

Top Measures:
Broadband Adoption Barriers
Change in Annual Wage and Salary Earnings per Worker

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

57

OPPORTUNITY ZONES
The Federal Qualified Opportunity Zone (QOZ) program spurs economic development by offering tax
incentives for investment into designated economically distressed census areas. Individuals who make
investments through special funds in these zones can defer or eliminate federal taxes on capital gains.
All five (5) of the MEDD region’s QOZs fall within Utah County.9 The census tracts are 49049002400,
49049002400, 49049002500, 49049002801, and 49049002802.

Exhibit 38: Map of Opportunity Zones

About the MEDD Region’s QOZs:10
•

•

•
•

•

•

These QOZs are home to approximately
17,000 people, about 3% of the county’s total
population.
All five of the QOZs in Utah County are over 235
miles away from the closest EDA University
Center.
There are no EDA funded Revolving Loan Funds
serving areas of any of the Utah County QOZs.
There are no EDA grants that are either located
within or clearly intended to support the Utah
County QOZs.
Four of the five QOZs in Utah County are HUD
2019 Low-Income Housing Tax Credit Qualified
Tracts.
Four of the five QOZs in Utah County are
qualified 2018 SBA HUBZone Census Tracts.

Source: Opportunity Database Online

Exhibit 39: Regional Opportunity Zone Data Overview
Source: Stats America

County

Median
Household
Income

Below
Poverty
Line

Median
Home
Value

Edu High
School

Median
Age

All Utah
of Utah
All of

N/A

$76K

9%

$330K

93%

31

Utah OZ
OZ Average
Average
Utah

N/A

$43K

19%

$195K

88%

25

49049000400

Utah

$62K

7%

$215K

82%

28

49049002400

Utah

$40K

15%

$288K

94%

24

49049002500

Utah

$34K

23%

$203K

89%

24

49049002801

Utah

$40K

21%

$160K

81%

26

49049002802

Utah

$38K

30%

$111K

94%

25

9
10

https://opportunitydb.com/location/utah/utah-county/
https://www.statsamerica.org/opportunity/map.aspx

58

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

EVALUATION
FRAMEWORK
The MEDD will achieve impact by continuing the current
momentum toward the region’s goals and delivering
results. The Mountainland Association of Governments
(MAG) will coordinate this work within the next 5 years in
collaboration with listed regional partners. MEDD seeks to
measure positive changes in the economic environment and
relate those changes to specific program efforts and the
achievement of desired outcomes. Each year, the MEDD will
provide an update on the progress of the CEDS by reporting
on the activities and metrics noted with each strategy.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

GOAL 1
Provide a safe, connected, and accessible regional transportation
network to meet current and future needs.
COLLABORATORS:

MAG (lead)
UDOT
UTA
HVT
City/County Planning and Development
State legislature
Neighboring EDDs

RESOURCES:

SB 185 State Infrastructure Bank Fund for Greenfield Areas
Traffic studies
Infrastructure grants
Local Administrative Advisor

CATALYSTS:

HB 44 Corridor Funding
SB462 Station Area Plans for Transit-Oriented Development (TOD)
SB217 Housing and Transit Reinvestment Zones (HTRZs)
SB 185 trail efforts and extended deadlines for opting into transit sales tax
SB 260 Transportation Funding Requirement changes
2034 Winter Olympics

UTAH LEGISLATURE HIGHLIGHT
Summary: Transit Specific Development
https://le.utah.gov/interim/2023/pdf/00002747.pdf

60

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

STRATEGY:
1.1: Expand public transit infrastructure, access, and awareness.

TIMELINE:
Long-term (4-5 years)

OBJECTIVES:
•

1.1.1: Create a concise, data-driven, and easy-to-understand campaign about how public transit
positively impacts health, congestion, quality of life, air pollution, and resource management.

•

1.1.2: Plan and prioritize development that increases proximity between public transportation
and housing development.

•

1.1.3: Increase regional investment in public transit to speed up the development of new
infrastructure and close the gap in our current needs and anticipated demand.

•

1.1.4: Explore investment and incentive options to increase public transit ridership and aid first/
last mile transportation.

OUTCOMES:
Reduced traffic, increased transit
options, community utilizing transit
options and providing feedback

METRICS:
Public transit investment, number of bus routes, ridership
on current routes, miles of light rail, first/last mile
transportation service/options

STRATEGY:
1.2: Align regional efforts to improve and execute transportation plans that
minimize congestion, increase connectivity, and anticipate future trends.

TIMELINE:
Medium-term (2-3 years)

OBJECTIVES:
•

1.2.1: Develop an advocacy plan to garner support with the UTA, local, county, and state
governments for updated transit policies, transportation plan adoption, and coordination.

•

1.2.2: Evaluate current transportation plans and increase collaboration between the region,
UDOT/UTA, and experts to address challenges and efficiently move forward on studies and
projects.

•

1.2.3: Increase regional investment and planning for high-quality, active transit facilities with
consistent design standards across jurisdictions.

•

1.2.4: Engage with workforce, especially commuters, to ensure their needs are being met.

OUTCOMES:
Future-focused transportation planning in coordination with UDOT, strong partnership with
UTA, reduced traffic, regional transit connections completed, community utilizing transit
options and providing feedback

METRICS:
Transit facilities investment, number of collaborative
meetings (and attendance), plan evaluations completed, advocacy plan completed, number of engagements, commuter data

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

61

GOAL 2
Balance regional growth, tourism development, and the protection
of natural resources.
COLLABORATORS:

MAG (lead)
Wasatch Range Leisure & Hospitality Regional Coalition,
DNR,
Utah Department of Environmental Quality,
Utah County Environmental Health,
county health departments,
Wasatch Mountain State Park,
Utah Department of Cultural and Community Engagement,
Utah Office of Tourism,
Utah Office of Outdoor Recreation,
Visit Park City,
Visit Heber Valley,
Explore Utah Valley,
Summit County Historical Society,
county and municipal utilities,
local planning departments,
Institute of Outdoor Recreation and Tourism at Utah State University,
other regional universities

RESOURCES:

SB 118 Water Efficient Landscaping Incentives
Agriculture Optimization Grant
Potential to access TRT
Utah Outdoor Rec Regional Projects
Local Technical Assistance Grants
Red Emerald Resilience industry webinar series
Utah Dark Skies toolkit
Agritourism toolkit
Forever Mighty Responsible Tourism Initiative

CATALYSTS:

State Scenic Byway Committee
Red Emerald Strategic Plan
Military Installation Development Authority
2034 Winter Olympics

62

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

STRATEGY:
2.1: Use current data, best practices, and planning to catalyze action among
regional partners.

TIMELINE:
Short-term (0-1 year)

OBJECTIVES:
•

2.1.1: Engage local universities and experts to complete a study on air and water pollution and
the impacts of regional growth on the environment.

•

2.1.2: Convene regional partners to review and plan action based on data, best practices, and
the hazard mitigation plan.

OUTCOMES:
Greater understanding of environmental impacts, strong
Hazard Mitigation Plan, awareness and action among
regional partners

STRATEGY:
2.2: Expand sustainable tourism initiatives.

METRICS:
Number of meetings (and attendance),
study and plan progress

TIMELINE:
Medium-term (2-3 years)

OBJECTIVES:
•

2.2.1: Convene regional tourism partners to catalyze sustainable tourism, tourism development,
and tourism diversification while ensuring actions complement local culture and needs.

•

2.2.2: Work with appropriate agencies and entities on recreation management plans.

•

2.2.3: Strengthen support for tourism-related business resiliency and development.

OUTCOMES:
Established regional definition of
sustainable tourism established and
accepted tourism plans,

METRICS:
ADR, TRT, park visitor and capacity ratio, tourism and
recreation management plans completed, tourism
industry data trends

STRATEGY:
2.3: Advocate for local governments to manage development with incentives,
updated zoning and building codes, and code enforcement.

TIMELINE:
Long-term (4-5 years)

OBJECTIVES:
•

2.3.1: Compile and distribute information to stakeholders regarding potential incentives for the
use of green energy sources and alternatives to vehicle transportation.

•

2.3.2: Provide stakeholders with best practices to prioritize open spaces through incentives and
green space requirements.

•

2.3.3: Promote the adoption and enforcement of codes that reduce pollution and limit
development near environmentally sensitive or protected areas.

OUTCOMES:
Intentional and responsible
growth management

METRICS:
Best practices and incentive information compiled, communication
statistics (meetings, presentations, and other dissemination), incentive and code adoption

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

63

GOAL 3
Improve quality of life to support the region’s workforce and
communities.
COLLABORATORS:

MAG (lead)
Elected officials,
Unified Economic Opportunity Commission,
Talent Ready Utah Board,
Mountainland Head Start,
Utah Works,
other statewide organizations,
regional housing authority,
HUD,
Health Department,
Educational Institutions

RESOURCES:

Attainable Housing Grants
Deeply Affordable Housing Fund
Rural Single-Family Home Land Revolving Loan Program
Rural Single-Family Housing Rehabilitation
Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund
HB 477: Full-day kindergarten funding
First Children’s Finance
Data and information, especially related to housing and childcare
State and local health department data
Rural Communities Opportunity Grant (RCOG)

CATALYSTS:

HB 364: Housing Affordability Amendments, including tax credits for developing or
preserving affordable rental units
HB 406 and SB 174 on Land Use, Development, and Management
Childcare Solutions and Workforce Productivity Plan
$9.5 Million allocated to ongoing Targeted Workforce Development to increase training for
high-demand industries, including healthcare

64

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

STRATEGY:
3.1: Coordinate regional efforts to address housing challenges.
OBJECTIVES:

TIMELINE:
Short-term (0-1 year)

•

3.1.1: Provide resources to cities and counties for the completion of housing studies and
strategic plans.

•

3.1.2: Organize stakeholder planning sessions to address housing issues and share data, best
practices, and other relevant housing-related information.

•

3.1.3: Advocate for legislation that would allow local government the option to use a wider
range of housing tools.

3.1.4: Empower local governments to strategically address zoning concerns and prioritize
residential development sites near amenities and transportation hubs.
OUTCOMES:
METRICS:
Robust housing data, tools, and
Best practices and housing tool information compiled, number of
best practices are available to replanning sessions (and attendance), communication outreach stagional partners, Cities and countistics (presentations and other dissemination), funding and other
ties have adopted actionable plans resources secured for housing studies and strategic plans
to address housing challenges
•

STRATEGY:
3.2: Increase equitable access and affordability of quality education and
childcare that meets the needs of students, families, and businesses.
OBJECTIVES:

TIMELINE:
Long-term (4-5 years)

•

3.2.1: Increase regional investment in early childhood education, K-12 schools, and childcare
availability, access, and affordability.

•

3.2.2: Expand and support collaboration between educational institutions, local governments,
and businesses to align pathways with market needs and retain students in regional
occupations.

OUTCOMES:
More affordable and accessible childcare and
education, better alignment between educational
institutions and regional partners, increased

METRICS:
Childcare investment, K-12 investment, number of
meetings (and attendance), student retention

STRATEGY:
3.3: Assess and address barriers to the health and safety of residents, workers, and visitors.
OBJECTIVES:

TIMELINE:
Long-term (4-5 years)

•

3.3.1: Increase awareness of existing health and wellness programs

•

3.3.2: Create a regional asset map of healthcare and emergency service locations, capacity, and
services.

•

3.3.3: Evaluate HPSA score and identify most common needs such as urgent care, pharmacies,
mental health care, and substance abuse resources.

•

3.3.4: Increase regional investment in training for needed healthcare and emergency services
occupations.

OUTCOMES:
Increased awareness of healthcare
needs and gaps, strengthened coordination between health departments
and regional partners

METRICS:
Communication outreach statistics (meetings, presentations,
and other dissemination), regional investment in healthcare
training, HPSA score evaluation completed

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

65

GOAL 4
Strengthen regional collaboration to support strategic actions,
build resiliency, and increase economic competitiveness.
COLLABORATORS:

MAG (lead)
Economic Development Directors,
Chambers,
DWS,
Other NGOs,
Unified Economic Opportunity Commission,
Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity,
Utah Capital Investment Board, Utah Works,
Talent Ready Utah,
Utah International Trade and Diplomacy,
World Trade Center Utah,
Governor’s Office of Planning and Budget,
Educational Institutions, and
other regional partners

RESOURCES:

Rural Communities Opportunity Grant (RCOG)
Rural Coworking and Innovation Center Grant
Rural Economic Development Tax Increment Financing (REDTIF)
Rural Employment Expansion Program
Equity-free Small Business Innovation Research
Small Business Technology Transfer
Manufacturing Modernization Grant
Utah Motion Picture Incentive Program

CATALYSTS:

Utah Innovation Lab
SB 36 Professional Licensing Amendments
CEDS Submission to EDA

66

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

STRATEGY:
4.1: Improve coordination between regional stakeholders, surrounding
regions, and the state.

TIMELINE:
Short-Term (0-1 year)

OBJECTIVES:
•

4.1.1: Increase communication and host quarterly meetings to discuss and coordinate
approaches to priority issues and advance the achievement of the goals outlined in this CEDS.

•

4.1.2: Partner with regional economic development organizations and other applicable
stakeholders to determine and address gaps in data and coordinate data sharing.

•

4.1.3: Identify funding sources for strategic action related to regional priorities.

•

4.1.4: Work with neighboring regions and the state to identify and overcome legislative and
process barriers to progress.

OUTCOMES:
Cohesive regional vision and plan, Increased availability of shared data resources, Resources available to
make progress on plan objectives

METRICS:
Number of meetings (and attendance), data
access, funding source list

STRATEGY:
4.2: Advance efforts to further diversify the regional economy and increase
competitiveness.

TIMELINE:
Long-term (4-5 year)

OBJECTIVES:
•

4.2.1: Continue to foster an effective entrepreneurship ecosystem with increased focus on
diversity, inclusion, and access to business support programs.

•

4.2.2: Partner with the private sector to expand intrapreneurship education, resources, and
initiatives.

•

4.2.3: Work with regional universities to provide technology transfer and commercialization
resources.

•

4.2.4: Convene regional, state, and federal partners to develop international marketing
materials, resources, and subsidies for trade missions.

OUTCOMES:
Strong and diverse business
ecosystem that provides resources to
new and existing businesses, drives
innovation, and collaborates for
economic success.

METRICS:
Number of meetings (and attendance), Wage growth by sector,
Business start-ups, Business tenure/retention, GRP, number
of small, minority-owned, women-owned, and veteran-owned
businesses, marketing materials developed

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

67

APPENDICES
APPENDIX A: GEOGRAPHY, NATURAL ASSETS, AND CULTURAL ASSETS
APPENDIX B: DISASTER RESILIENCE
APPENDIX C: LABOR MARKET
APPENDIX D: BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY
APPENDIX E: BROADBAND AND ENERGY
APPENDIX F: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
APPENDIX G: PUBLIC COMMENT AND RESPONSE
APPENDIX H: RESOLUTION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

APPENDIX A
GEOGRAPHY, NATURAL ASSETS, AND
CULTURAL ASSETS
GEOGRAPHY
As you enter the MAG region from any direction,
the striking views of towering mountains are
impossible to miss. Just a short journey through
the region provides a jaw-dropping experience
with lush valleys and waterways contrasting
with the snowy peaks. A distinction can be seen
between what is considered the “Wasatch Front”
and the “Wasatch Back”.

ALIGNMENT
Utah Agricultural Statistics Annual Report
Wasatch Mountain State Park
Utah County Environmental Health
Heber Valley Sustainability Efforts
Wasatch County History
Summit County Historical Society
Utah County History
Visit Park City
Visit Heber Valley
Explore Utah Valley

70

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Utah County
• Borders the Wasatch Mountains on the east
• Utah County’s elevation varies, with the valley floors at around 4,500 to 5,500 feet (about 1,372
to 1,676 meters) and mountain peaks within the county reaching elevations of over 11,000 feet
(about 3,352 meters).
• The highest point is Mt. Nebo at 11,928 ft. and the lowest point is at the Jordan River Flood Plain at
4,480 ft.
• Major bodies of water include Utah Lake, which is both the state and the country’s largest
freshwater lake, and the Provo River.
• Average temperatures in the wintertime range from lows in the teens and highs in the mid-20s
and 30s
• Average temperatures in the summertime range from lows in the mid-40s and 50s and highs in
the mid-70s and 80s
Wasatch County
• Lies between Wasatch and Uinta mountains
• The county’s mountain ranges include the Wasatch Mountain Range and the Uinta Mountains,
with Mount Timpanogos overlooking the Heber Valley
• The elevation in Wasatch County varies significantly, with the valley floors around 5,500 feet (1,676
meters) and mountain peaks reaching elevations of over 11,000 feet (3,352 meters).
• Water flows through into the Great Basin or Uinta Basin, ultimately ending up in Colorado River
• Other bodies of water include the, Jordanell Reservoir, Strawberry Reservoir, Deer Creek Reservoir
and the Provo River
• Average temperatures in the wintertime range from lows in the teens and highs in the mid-20s
and 30s
• Average temperatures in the summertime range from lows in the mid-40s and 50s and highs in
the mid-70s and 80s
Summit County
• “Utah’s Summit” with the Wasatch and Uinta Mountains bordering the county
• Uinta Mountains give birth to the Weber, Provo, and Bear rivers that flow into the Green River.
• The county holds the Snyderville Basin, home to many of its residents
• Summit County’s elevation varies greatly. It encompasses high mountain peaks, with elevations
ranging from around 6,000 feet (1,828 meters) in valleys to over 10,000 feet (3,048 meters) in the
mountainous areas.
• Major bodies of water include the Rockport Reservoir, Echo Reservoir, and Weber River
• Average temperatures in the wintertime range from lows in the teens and highs in the mid-20s
and 30s
• Average temperatures in the summertime range from lows in the mid-40s and 50s and highs in
the mid-70s and 80s

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

71

NATURAL ASSETS
Utah County
Utah County is blessed with diverse natural assets. It is home to the iconic Mount Timpanogos, a
prominent peak in the Wasatch Range, offering breathtaking views and opportunities for hiking, camping,
and climbing. The county also encompasses parts of the scenic Provo River, renowned for its trout fishing
and recreational activities. Utah Lake, the largest freshwater lake in the state, provides opportunities for
boating, fishing, and birdwatching. The county’s scenic beauty, including its canyons, forests, and natural
landscapes, make it a popular destination for outdoor enthusiasts.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Alpine Loop Scenic Backway
Bridal Veil Falls
Cascade Springs
Deer Creek Reservoir State Park
Fifth Water Hot Springs
Maple Lake
Mount Nebo
Mount Timpanogos
Lindon Marina

Wasatch County
Wasatch County boasts stunning natural assets
that attract visitors from near and far. The county
is nestled in the Wasatch Mountains, offering
picturesque mountain ranges, including the Uinta
Mountains to the east. The area is known for its
world-class skiing and snowboarding resorts. The
county is also home to the Jordanelle State Park,
encompassing the Jordanelle Reservoir, where
visitors can enjoy water sports, camping, and
hiking. The diverse wildlife, including elk, deer, and
various bird species, adds to the natural charm of
the county.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Utah Crater
Alpine Loop Scenic Backway
Soldier Hollow Nordic Center
Jordanelle State Park
Memorial Hill
Stewart Falls Waterfall
Wasatch Mountain State Park
Cascade Springs

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Payson Lakes
Provo River
Rock Canyon Park
Stewart Falls Trail
Sundance Mountain Resort
Utah Lake State Park
Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National Forest
Timpanogos Cave National Monument
American Fork Canyon

Summit County
Summit County is renowned for its spectacular
natural assets, primarily driven by its mountainous
terrain and pristine landscapes. The county
encompasses parts of the Uinta-WasatchCache National Forest, offering an abundance
of recreational opportunities such as hiking,
mountain biking, and fishing. The Park City area
within Summit County is particularly famous for
its ski resorts, including Park City Mountain Resort
and The Canyons Resort. The county also hosts
the Sundance Film Festival, taking advantage of
its beautiful surroundings and promoting the
intersection of arts and nature.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Echo State Park
Rockport State Park
Wasatch Mountain State Park
Park City Mountain Resort
Deer Valley Resort
Park City Mountain
Utah Olympic Park
Woodward Park City11

11

The summary of natural resources was informed by document and website review from regional tourism organizations.

72

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

CULTURAL ASSETS
Utah County Highlights
Utah County has a rich cultural heritage with several notable assets. The county is home to two major
universities, Utah Valley University (UVU) and Brigham Young University (BYU) Brigham Young University
offers diverse cultural events, including theatrical performances, art exhibits, and music concerts. The
Monte L. Bean Life Science Museum, located at BYU, showcases various exhibits on natural history
and biodiversity. The county also hosts the various cultural festivals and city celebrations, including
celebrations of Polynesian and Scottish culture, Pioneer, Steel, Strawberry and Onion Days. Notably
among these is the Timpanogos Storytelling Festival, which celebrates the art of storytelling and folklore.
•
•
•
•
•

Thanksgiving Point
Hale Center Theater
BYU Performing Arts
Sundance Summer Theatre
The Hive Collective

•
•
•
•
•

Wasatch County Highlights
Wasatch County boasts cultural assets that reflect
its Western heritage and recreational lifestyle.
The county is known for its western-themed
events, including major rodeo events. The historic
Heber Valley Railroad offers scenic train rides and
recreates the atmosphere of the Old West. The
county also has a vibrant arts community, with
galleries and art events showcasing the works
of local artists. The annual Swiss Days in Midway
celebrates the area’s Swiss heritage through
traditional music, food, and crafts.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Heber Valley Railroad
Wasatch Mountain Music Festival
Soldier Hollow Sheepdog Competition
Heber Valley Choir and Orchestra
Swiss Days Annual Festival
Timpanagos Valley Theatre
Wasatch Camerata Chamber Singers

Utah Valley Symphony
Utah Valley University Performing Arts
UVU Noorda Center for the Performing Arts
BYU Museum of Art
Daughter’s of Utah Pioneers Museum

Summit County Highlights
Summit County embraces a diverse range of
cultural assets, influenced by its history and
mountain resort culture. Park City, located in
Summit County, is renowned for its Sundance
Film Festival, attracting filmmakers and artists
from around the world. The county is home to the
Kimball Art Center, which exhibits contemporary
art and hosts art events and workshops. Park City
also offers a vibrant dining and entertainment
scene, with numerous restaurants, bars, and live
music venues. The county celebrates its mining
heritage through events like Miners’ Day, featuring
parades and activities that honor the area’s mining
history.
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Park City Museum
Mountain Town Music
Summit County Museum
Park City Film
Utah Conservatory
Utah Film Studios
George Eccles Salt Lake 2002 Olympic
Winter Games Museum
Sundance Institute

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

73

APPENDIX B
DISASTER RESILIENCE
Disaster mitigation can protect lives and properties. MAG, at the request of the local jurisdictions in
Summit, Utah, and Wasatch counties, created a plan that helps those participating access disaster
funding, both before and after a disaster occurs. Mitigation reduces or prevents the damage caused by
natural disasters such as earthquakes and wildfires. It involves actions taken before a disaster occurs
rather than during disaster response. Participation in this plan makes jurisdictions and organizations
eligible to apply for FEMA grants and receive post-disaster funds.
The Regional Pre-Disaster Mitigation Plan aims to increase awareness among city and state officials,
agencies, and the public regarding the risks posed by various hazards in Utah jurisdictions, and how to
mitigate these risks. The participating counties include Summit, Utah, and Wasatch. The plan focuses on
regional hazards such as:
•

air quality,

•

drought,

•

algal blooms,

•

pests,

•

climate change,

•

and radon gas.

•

severe weather,

The goal of the plan is to promote proactive measures to prevent or reduce vulnerability and risk
associated with these hazards.

74

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Utah County faces several likely hazards, including
hail, fire, winter weather, wind, and avalanches.
Flooding is a regular occurrence in the county.
Wildfires are frequent, with most fires happening
in late summer and early fall. Smoke from wildfires
out of state cause additional air quality issues.
Human activities contribute to over half of the
fires in the county. The rapid development of
foothills and alluvial fans often leads to landslides
and debris flows, especially after wildfire events.
In terms of earthquakes, while Summit and
Wasatch counties may experience some damage,
Utah County is expected to see mass movement
along the bench areas, liquefaction near the lake,
and other structural impacts for earthquakes
with a magnitude of 5.0 and above. Due to its
mountainous terrain, Utah County is particularly
susceptible to severe weather, especially winter
weather events. These hazards highlight the need
for preparedness and resilience strategies in the
county.
Wasatch County in Utah faces several highlikelihood hazards, including hail, winter weather,
and avalanches. Flooding is a regular occurrence,
especially as development expands in areas like
Heber Valley, along the shores of Deer Creek and
Jordanelle Reservoirs, and along river and stream
corridors. Wildland fires are a common event in
the county, with multiple fires occurring each year.
Landslides also happen nearly every year along the
benches and hillsides. Earthquakes above 3.0 on
the Richter scale are rare in the county, with minor
events occurring monthly but generally going
unfelt. Due to its mountainous terrain, Wasatch
County is particularly vulnerable to severe winter
weather, which has caused the most injuries and
property damage. Wind, on the other hand, is
responsible for significant crop damages in the
county. It is crucial to prioritize preparedness and
mitigation measures to address these hazards
effectively.

Summit County in Utah faces several significant
hazards with high impact potential. The most
likely hazards include winter weather, high
winds, drought, and wildfires. Flooding in the
county is often caused by snow melt or severe
thunderstorms, exacerbated by impervious soils
resulting from wildfires or drying out. Wildfires are
frequent and pose imminent danger to residents,
as the county is located within the Wildland
Urban Interface. Landslides are common and
can occur without warning, leading to destructive
outcomes. The region is also at risk of earthquakes,
particularly along the Wasatch Fault. Severe
weather events like blizzards, heavy snowstorms,
and ice storms, as well as avalanches, are a
concern, especially in tourism-centered areas.
Currently, Summit County is experiencing a severe
drought, leading to inadequate pasture and water
for cattle, poor air quality, dust problems, and dry
streams and ponds. These hazards highlight the
need for proactive measures to mitigate risks and
enhance resilience in the county.
To ensure the maintenance of the plan, MAG will
make it accessible on its website, along with risk
maps and a comment section on the Pre-Disaster
Mitigation landing page. Additionally, hazard
maps will be featured at their annual Open House,
where each city presents its long-range plan.
MAG actively monitors the progress of mitigation
strategies by contacting each jurisdiction every
two years. This assessment aims to determine if
any modifications are necessary for the plan. The
results of these evaluations will be shared with
the Executive Council. Updates on the progress of
the plan can be expected in 2024 and 2026. This
periodic evaluation and review process ensure the
plan remains relevant and effective in addressing
hazards and mitigating risks.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

75

APPENDIX C
LABOR MARKET
Exhibit 40: Total Employed Workforce by County
Source: Lightcast Industry Employment Table, 2023

Summit
Summit
County
Wasatch
Wasatch
County
Utah
Utah
County
MEDD Region Total

All Industries Employment
32,637
13,292
1,840,325
1,886,254

OCCUPATIONS AND JOB POSTINGS
Exhibit 41: MEDD Top Occupations by Employment, 2022
Source: Lightcast Occupations Table Report, 2023

76

Occupation
Description (SOC)

Jobs
2022

Office & Administrative Support (43)
Sales & Related (41)
Management (11)
Educational Instruction & Library (25)
Food Preparation & Serving Related (35)
Construction & Extraction (47)
Business & Financial Operations (13)
Production (51)
Transportation & Material Moving (53)
Computer & Mathematical (15)

49,742
35,382
32,686
30,478
27,438
26,024
21,890
19,801
19,617
18,855

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Median Annual Median Hourly
Earnings
Earnings
$35,169
$31,225
$78,591
$55,269
$25,138
$45,336
$57,611
$34,935
$32,352
$75,839

$16.91
$15.01
$37.78
$26.57
$12.09
$21.80
$27.70
$16.80
$15.55
$36.46

Exhibit 42: Stem Occupations as a Percentage of All Jobs
Source: Lightcast Occupation Tables

STEM Occupation
Group Group
STEM Occupation

Jobs
2022
Jobs 2022

% of STEM
Jobs Jobs
% of STEM

% of All
% ofJobs
All Jobs

17,426

72.26%

4.61%

1,265

5.25%

0.34%

Engineers

2,211

9.17%

0.59%

Drafters, Engineering Technicians,
and Mapping Technicians

1,307

5.42%

0.35%

Life Scientists

462

1.92%

0.12%

Physical Scientists

257

1.07%

0.07%

567

2.35%

0.15%

620

2.57%

0.16%

Computer
Occupations
Mathematical Science
Occupations

Social Scientists and
Related Workers
Life, Physical, and Social Science
Technicians

24,115

6.38%

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

77

LABOR FORCE PARTICIPATION
Overall, the regional labor force participation rate, at 70.4% for the population 16 years and older, is
higher than both the national average (6.8% above) and the state average (1.8% above).

89.7%

Exhibit 43: Regional Labor Force Participation Rate by Sex
Source: American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates S2301 Employment Status

68.5%

Female labor participation rates represent the greatest
disparity between state and national trends in the region.
Overall female labor participation falls 5.1% below the
national average and 3.9% below the state average. The
disparity becomes greater for women with children, whose
labor participation rate is 15.8% below the national average
and 7.4% below the state average.

Male

Female

Exhibit 44: Regional Labor Force Participation Rate by Race
Source: American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates S2301 Employment Status

75.2%

Hispanic or Latino origin (of any race)

75.9%

Two or more races

75.2%

Some other race alone
69.6%
Asian alone
American Indian and Alaska Native alone
Black or African American alone
White alone

78

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

67.8%
68.9%
71.6%
70.1%

Exhibit 45: Regional Labor Force Participation Rate by Educational Attainment
Source: American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates S2301 Employment Status

Bachelor's degree
or higher

82.4%

Some college or
associate's degree

76.8%

High school graduate
(includes equivalency)

75.1%

Less than high
school graduate

68.7%

Exhibit 46: Regional Labor Force Participation Rate by Age
Source: American Community Survey 5-Year Estimates S2301 Employment Status

75 +
65-74
60-64

8.4%
30.8%
64.6%

55-59

78.7%

45-54

83.1%

35-44

78.7%

30-34

75.3%

25-29

82.6%

20-24

81.7%

16-19

56.6%

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

79

TOP OCCUPATION LOCATION QUOTIENT
Exhibit 47: Regional Industries with Employment
Concentration Greater Than 1.0

Employment Concentration is a
measure of an industry’s presence
in an area based on the area’s size
and national data on that industry.
A score of 1 would indicate that
an industry is the expected size (in
terms of employment numbers)
for the size of the study area, with
scores greater than 1 indicating an
especially large presence of that
industry in the region. Conversely,
a score of less than 1 indicates
that the industry has a smaller
presence than expected based on
national data.

Source: EMSI Lightcast 2023

Educational Services

3.71

Information

2.32

Construction

1.70

Arts, Entertainment, and
Recreation

1.48
1.19

Technical Services
Retail Trade

1.14

MOST IN-DEMAND SKILLS
Exhibit 48: Regional Top-Demanded Specialized Skills
Source: Lightcast 2023

Unique Postings

National Average

16,000
12,000
8,000
4,000

80

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Finance

Product Knowledge

Warehousing

Project Management

Auditing

Accounting

Restaurant Operation

Selling Techniques

Merchandising

Marketing

0

JOB POSTINGS
Exhibit 49: Regional Top Posted Occupations
Source: Lightcast 2023

Jun 2022 - May 2023 Unique Average Monthly Postings
2021 Median Hourly Earnings
1,000

$40.00

800

$30.00

600
$20.00
400
$10.00

200

Exhibit 40: Jobs by County
Source: Lightcast Industry Tables, 2023

Summit
Summit
County
Wasatch
Wasatch
County
Utah
Utah
County
MEDD Region Total

Production

Installation, Maintenance,
and Repair

Business and Financial
Operations

Computer and
Mathematical

Transportation and
Material Moving

Food Preparation and
Serving Related

Healthcare Practitioners
and Technical

Management

Support

$0.00
Sales and Related

0

Total Jobs, 2022
32,639
13,292
331,810
377,741

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

81

APPENDIX D
BUSINESS AND INDUSTRY
GROSS REGIONAL PRODUCT (GRP)
Exhibit 50: Regional Growth Year Over Year
Source: Bureau Economic Analysis 2023

Summit, UT

Utah, UT

Wasatch, UT

14%
12%
10%
8%
6%
4%
2%
0%

Exhibit 51: GRP Per Capita
Source: Bureau Economic Analysis 2023, US Census Bureau ACS 2021

Summit
Summit
County
Wasatch
Wasatch
County
Utah
Utah
County
MEDD Region Total
82

GRP Per Capita
$111,038
$41,584
$56,134
$58,646

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

2020-2021

2019-2020

2018-2019

2017-2018

2016-2017

2015-2016

2014-2015

2013-2014

2012-2013

2011-2012

2010-2011

-2%

Exhibit 52: Annualized Compound GRP Growth 2011-2020
Source: Bureau Economic Analysis 2023

7.8 %

7.7 %

5.6 %

Summit, UT Wasatch, UT

Utah, UT

TOP INDUSTRIES
Exhibit 53: MEDD Largest Industries by Employment
Source: Lightcast Industry Tables, 2023

Industry
Description (NAICS)

Jobs
2022

Average
Earnings

Location
Quotient

Retail Trade (44)

42,096

$46,574

1.14

Government (90)

39,984

$62,126

0.73

Health Care &
Social Assistance (62)

38,531

$58,750

0.80

Construction (23)

37,066

$73,024

1.70

Educational Services (61)

36,919

$31,953

3.71

31,966

$103,806

1.19

29,059

$27,942

0.95

Manufacturing (31)

25,483

$75,150

0.87

Administrative & Support & Waste
Management & Remediation Services (56)

21,241

$53,322

0.89

Information (51)

16,680

$139,247

2.32

Professional, Scientific &
Technical Services (54)
Accommodation &
Food Services (72)

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

83

84

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Administrative and Support
and Waste Management and…

Manufacturing

Health Care and
Social Assistance

% Change in Jobs

Arts, Entertainment,
and Recreation

Construction

and Technical Services

Transportation and
Warehousing

Management of Companies
and Enterprises

50%

40%

30%

20%

Exhibit 55: MEDD Top Growing Industries by Employment

Source: Lightcast Industry Tables, 2023

Change in Jobs

80%
9,000

70%
8,000

60%
7,000

6,000

5,000

4,000

3,000

2,000

10%
1,000

0%
0

Wholesale Trade

Health Care and
Social Assistance

Government

Real Estate and
Rental and Leasing

Finance and Insurance

Construction

Manufacturing

Retail Trade

and Technical Services

Information

Source: Lightcast
Industry Tables, 2023

Mining, Quarrying, and Oil
and Gas Extraction

Finance and Insurance

Exhibit 54:
MEDD Largest
Industries by GRP
$6,000,000,000

$5,000,000,000

$4,000,000,000

$3,000,000,000

$2,000,000,000

$1,000,000,000
$0

APPENDIX E
BROADBAND AND ENERGY
UTAH STATE’S BROADBAND INVESTMENT
The state has made expanding broadband
access a priority over the past several years,
including research projects to identify target
regions, creating coordinating bodies to support
regions, and leveraging state and federal funds to
implement plans.
As communities across the nation invest in
updated broadband infrastructure in response
to the digitization of daily life after the COVID-19
pandemic, fiber optic technology is regarded as
a resilient technology with exponentially greater
capacity than cable or DSL. Many state and federal
programs are recommending that communities
invest in infrastructure that can achieve speeds
only possible through fiber-optic technology or
powerful wireless technology at close range.
Installing fiber-to-the-home is costly, especially
in communities without the cost-savings
associated with density. In less dense areas, local
governments may incentivize broadband providers
to invest in broadband infrastructure buildout to
ensure that communities remain connected. The
online, interactive version of the mapping tool
created by Broadband Now shows the region’s
current availability of fiber service to consumers.
The map shows limited availability of fiber beyond
the most densely populated parts of the region.
It should be noted that while available data may
convey that broadband availability is limited,
significant investment has been made in recent
years, and some buildouts may be in-process.

12

Broadband Utopia: UTOPIA Fiber is a fiber optic
infrastructure owned by 11 Utah cities. Utilizing
light to transfer information, it generates extremely
fast and reliable communication technology. Fiber
has been deployed in Utah County cities including
Orem, Lindon, Cedar Hills, Payson, Pleasant Grove,
and Woodland Hills.
Utah Broadband Outreach Center: The Utah
Broadband Outreach Center (UBOC) was
established to promote and facilitate broadband
expansion throughout the state. UBOC provides
resources, tools, and technical assistance to
communities, businesses, and individuals, aiming
to bridge the digital divide.
Utah Broadband Project: The Utah Broadband
Project, a collaboration between the Governor’s
Office of Economic Development and the
Department of Technology Services, has
been instrumental in expanding broadband
infrastructure. They have worked on mapping,
planning, and implementing broadband projects
to improve access across the state. These mapping
efforts help policymakers and stakeholders
prioritize investments and develop strategic plans
for broadband expansion.
Of the Economic Development Districts in the state
of Utah, the MEDD region ranks the strongest
on the Broadband Infrastructure and Adoption
Index.12

Coordinated Action Plan (page 71) details the five variables included in the index.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

85

ENERGY

The energy infrastructure serving Utah County,
Wasatch County, and Summit County in Utah
consists of a combination of electricity generation,
transmission, and distribution systems, as well as
natural gas and petroleum infrastructure. Here’s
a detailed outline of the energy infrastructure in
these counties:

Electricity Generation
The Intermountain Power Plant located in Millard
County is a major coal-fired facility that supplies
electricity to Utah County, Wasatch County, and
Summit County. It has a generating capacity of
approximately 1,800 megawatts. Several natural
gas power plants are scattered throughout the
region. One notable facility is the Summit County
Power Plant in Wanship, which has a capacity of
around 570 megawatts. There are also several
renewable energy projects in the area. Utah
County has solar farms and wind farms, while
Wasatch County and Summit County have wind
farms that contribute to the local energy mix.

Electricity Transmission
The region is connected to the broader electricity
grid through an extensive network of transmission
lines. Major transmission lines, such as the 345 kV
lines operated by Rocky Mountain Power, traverse
the counties, enabling the transfer of electricity
from power plants to local substations.

Electricity Distribution
The distribution grid consists of power lines and
associated infrastructure that delivers electricity
to homes, businesses, and other consumers.
Local distribution utilities, such as Rocky Mountain
Power, operate and maintain the distribution
systems in these counties. Local substations
receive electricity from the transmission lines and
further step down the voltage to levels suitable for
residential and commercial use.

Natural Gas Infrastructure
Natural gas is supplied to the region through an
extensive network of pipelines. These pipelines
transport natural gas from production areas
and interconnect with local distribution systems.
Local natural gas distribution systems distribute
the gas to residential, commercial, and industrial
customers. Utility companies, such as Dominion
Energy, manage and maintain the natural gas
distribution infrastructure.

Petroleum Infrastructure
There is a refinery located in North Salt Lake
(Salt Lake County), which processes crude oil into
various petroleum products such as gasoline,
diesel, and jet fuel. The refinery serves the local
market, including Utah County, Wasatch County,
and Summit County. Petroleum products are
stored in tanks and transported via pipelines,
trucks, and rail to distribution terminals, fuel
stations, and other consumers throughout the
region.13

13
The overview of the energy infrastructure in the region was informed by document review, including information from the Utah
Office of Energy Development.

86

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Alternative Energy Sources

•

While local data is not available, according to the
US Energy Information Administration, alternative
energy sources (hydroelectric, wind, geothermal,
biomass, and solar) only account for 2% of total
energy source use across the state of Utah. The
Utah Office of Energy Development has a voluntary
Renewable Portfolio Standard, which says that by
2025, 20% of retail electricity sales should come
from renewable energy sources.
According to findings from Envision Utah, a
nonprofit, nonpartisan community partnership
that includes members of both the private and
public sectors, there are encouraging prospects for
increased alternative energy sources in Utah:
• Though solar power currently represents
a small fraction of Utah’s electricity
generation, there is significant potential for
larger, utility-scale projects. The Bureau of
Land Management has identified three solar
energy zones suitable for energy production
in Beaver and Iron Counties.
• Utah has several utility-scale wind projects.
The best wind resources are concentrated in
the southwest, but other locations scattered
throughout the state have good, though
limited, potential to produce wind energy.
• Utah is one of just six states with
developable, utility-scale geothermal
resources. Utah currently has about 70
megawatts of geothermal capacity installed.
Drilling to confirm that the resources can be
developed into energy could be expensive,
however, so future development may be
modest.

14
15

While hydroelectric facilities currently
generate the largest percentage of
renewable energy used in Utah, new hydro
projects are unlikely to be developed
further because of environmental concerns.
However, there is some potential for small
“micro-hydro” projects to generate power in
canals, water lines, or other water sources.14

Utah Transmission Study 2020
In 2020, the Utah State Legislature approved
funding for a study to identify transmission
constraints hindering access to Utah’s in-state
resource potential. The goal of the transmission
study was to better identify transmission
constraints that limit access to Utah’s energy
resource potential. Provide strategies to address
such constraints, and consider the costs, economic
impact, and technical feasibility of the proposed
strategies.
The Five Key Findings of the report include:
• Utah has excellent electric generation
potential and development activity, but
future generation buildouts will increase
congestion on the transmission grid.
• Future generation additions in Utah
are likely to be limited by transmission
constraints on key paths in Southern and
Central Utah.
• Transmission expansion along Utah’s northsouth backbone system will be required
to address the grid constraints and to
support the levels of generation and storage
buildout envisioned in this study.
• A transmission buildout in Utah can help tap
into state resource potential.
• In-state transmission and power generation
investment can cause major economic
benefits to accrue to Utah, suggesting new
jobs and economic growth as potential
reasons to unlock Utah’s resource potential
with transmission expansion.15

https://yourutahyourfuture.org/topics/energy/item/38-background-energy-in-utah
https://energy.utah.gov/energy-information/transmission/

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

87

APPENDIX F
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
STAKEHOLDER WORKSHOPS
Introduction
On June 13th and 14th, TPMA, in collaboration with the Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG),
conducted three workshops in the Mountainland Economic Development District (MEDD) as a part of an
ongoing project to update the region’s Comprehensive Economic Development Plan (CEDS). Over 150
key stakeholders were invited to participate, and 42 attended. The workshops took place in each of the
three counties in the region: Wasatch, Summit, and Utah County. Over the course of the three sessions,
stakeholders worked individually and collaboratively to identify the greatest strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities and threats the region is facing, as well as what a shared vision for the future may look like.
This summary covers the highlights of the three sessions in aggregate. While this is by no means the
extent of the ideas and feedback the team received, it is a reflection of the powerful consensus that
emerged across the board, across professions, identities, and geography.

Visioning Themes
Participants were asked to spend the first few minutes of the workshop thinking and talking about what
their vision for the Mountainland Region would look like. Five years from now, when the next CEDS
update is in the works, what should the region have achieved or be known for? Four themes emerged
from this brainstorming:
• Natural Resources: open spaces, stunning landscapes, and the conservation and protection of
those places
• Housing Advancement: housing that is affordable for the region’s workforce, supported by an
increase in density, supply, and variety
• Community: a place where residents can feel welcome, united, and connected to the deep history
and heritage of the region
• Transportation: a region with high quality, accessible transportation options, including robust
public transit
The vision developed from the workshops is:
“The Mountainland region is known for stunning landscape, unrivaled recreation, high-level
education, skilled workforce, and global leadership in information and technology, making it one
of the best places in the nation that provides top-quality services, amenities, and infrastructure
for businesses, residents, workers, and visitors.”

88

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

SWOT Prioritization

STRENGTHS

WEAKNESSES

OPPORTUNITIES

THREATS

Natural Resources
and Recreation:
seasonal attractions,
natural geography,
open spaces, and
recreation with familyfriendly amenities, all of
which improves quality
of life and attracts
tourism
Quality of Life: the
region is a desirable
location for people to
live and relocate with
a balance of rural and
open spaces while
remaining close to
large metro areas,
as well as excellent
recreational amenities
and opportunities

Regional Vision:
competition between
entities, lack of
aligned values and
communication
between leaders and
residents, and limited
collaboration between
cities and counties

Infrastructure and
Transportation
Improvements:
public transportation
connectivity and joint
efforts in transportation
collaboration including
UTA/UDOT

Environmental:
natural resources
require better
preservation/
management efforts,
especially regarding
water and air quality as
well as light pollution

Housing: increasing
housing costs are
limiting the regional
workforce’s ability
to live in the area,
disconnects between
developers, planners,
and residents is causing
a lack of affordable/
attainable housing,
particularly in Wasatch
& Summit.
Transportation
and Infrastructure:
lacking necessary
levels of investment,
particularly public
transit which lacks
1st/last mile connect.
Traffic congestion is
worsening alongside
a need for other
infrastructural updates
to meet increased
demand

Recreational
assets and tourism
development: regional
recreational and
natural spaces that
can be expanded,
improved upon, or
created, including
arts destinations,
professional sports,
parks, and trail systems

Lack of transport
options: public transit
availability and supply
is currently inadequate,
and increased traffic is
straining transportation
infrastructure, with
growth outpacing
infrastructural
improvements

Improving housing
problem: by removing
barriers, increasing
housing supply and
density through mixed
use, infill development
to meet low income,
workforce, and senior
housing needs.

Housing: some
communities unwilling
to address affordability
needs or consider
increased density while
population growth is
pushing up market
prices. The region’s
workforce is facing
more and more strain
to afford housing costs.

Rapid economic
growth: both
in GRP and jobs
resulting in a strong
economy, alongside
strong indicators for
future growth and
diversification of
regional industries and
employment.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

89

How Might We
The last activity participants were asked to engage in pushed the groups to take the priorities they
identified through the SWOT analysis, and form questions asking “how might we” leverage strengths,
address weaknesses, pursue opportunities, and mitigate threats. These ideas fell into 5 primary
categories, listed below with three key goals for each.

Natural Resources and Recreational Assets
How might we...
•
•
•

Strategically preserve historic properties
Ensure open space preservation and management; work with appropriate agencies and entities
on recreation management plans for lakes, canyons, etc.
Mitigate potential environmental concerns through conservation, GIS mapping, water treatment
technologies, and regional coordination

Transportation
How might we...
•
•
•

Shift the culture of transportation to provide better public transit options for the region,
encouraging residents to choose public transportation rather than utilizing it only when they must
Increase investment in public transport to move the development of new infrastructure further up
the schedule to close the gap in our current needs, getting ahead of demand
Remove barriers to allow increased collaboration between the region and UDOT/UTA to allow
studies and projects to move forward more efficiently

Business and Workforce
How might we...
•
•
•

Diversify the economy at large, alongside tourism and recreation opportunities
Improve cities and counties’ abilities to tell their story and market themselves more effectively to
potentially businesses
Better engage with the workforce, especially commuters, to ensure their needs are being met

Housing
How might we...
•

•
•

90

Create more attainable housing opportunities for all levels of income; prioritize creating more
density, strategically addressing zoning concerns, ensure residential developments have access to
grocery stores and transportation hubs
Work better with builders to ensure housing needs are being met and development costs are
stable enough to allow for more attainable housing
Help the state be better informed on housing issues and organize sufficient planning sessions to
improve housing issues collaboratively

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Leadership, Collaboration, and Community
How might we...
•
•

•

Allow MAG to fully serve as a forum for regional collaboration
Form a cohesive vision for the region that can be supported across the community with a
commitment to inclusion and diversity as well as investment in education, community support,
and collaboration
Provide better training for leadership in the public sector to improve their ability to pursue
efficient and effective strategies and funding

Follow-up
A follow-up survey was sent to participants to obtain any additional feedback. Of respondents, 75%
attended the session held in Orem and 25% attended the session in Park City.
Feedback encouraged alinment with (1) Utah’s Guiding Our Growth, (2) Your Utah, Your Future, and
(3) Utah Valley Visioning. The importance of transportation, public transit, affordable housing, and
collaboration. It was noted by one participant that the influx of seasonal workers in Summit County
has been a significant issue, especially regarding J1 workers and the lack of adequate housing. This
participant did not feel that there was adequate discussion of the topic during the workshop. Another
participant asked how elected officials can be more involved with the CEDS in the future and remarked
that it can be frustrating for local government employees to not be able to carry out action plans due to
municipal lawmakers preventing growth and development.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

91

STRATEGY SESSION
Introduction

Approach

The Mountainland Association of Governments
(MAG) held a virtual workshop with the CEDS
Committee to develop goals and objectives. Prior
to the workshop, participants were given a draft
of the SWOT analysis and overview of feedback
from the stakeholder workshops. The session was
held via Zoom and utilized Google Jamboard for
collaborative work. Nine (9) members of the CEDS
Committee attended.

Participants were asked to create objectives to
address the issues outlined in the SWOT analysis.
They were then asked to consider all objectives
among the group and vote to elevate three in each
focus area.
After the top goals were identified, participants
were asked to come up with action steps the region
should take to achieve the goals.

Transportation and Infrastructure
1: Get the first-mile/last-mile transportation to allow more ridership.
• Enhance and/or establish micro transit throughout all 3 counties (either UTA, HVT, or collaboration)
• Create shuttles for specific groups or locations like the hospital, strip malls, medical centers.
• Purchase last mile vehicles or shuttles to workplaces.
• Invest in network of high-quality active transport facilities that is connected with physical separation
from vehicular traffic and consistent design standards across jurisdictions.
• Create a concise, data-driven, digestible pitch on how transit positively impacts health, congestion,
quality of life, air pollution, resource management, community, etc
• Show how public transport is cost effective and largely supported by the population to get political
support.
• Survey employers to ascertain the need for first/last mile transportation. Then follow through with
shuttles as needed.
• Take surveys to find out what stops people from using public transportation and what their viewpoint
of public transportation
• Create rebate/subsidy program for e-bikes for all residents
• Cities to create first and last mile connectivity that is pushed up to a regional and UTA level for
implementation
• Make the active transportation/trails network EXTENSIVE. Give these modes priority in transportation
corridors.
• Consider funding one entity to provide first/last mile service to pool resources
• provide grants to local governments providing last mile service
• Work closely with UTA with last to bring the last mile program that has been started in SL county to
this region.

92

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

2: Build the political will and public support to prioritize transit.
• Incentives such as free or discounted bus, rail, or transit passes, reimbursements, partial payments or
pre-tax payroll should be implemented.
• Allocate increased sales tax distribution to counties/cities to fund last mile transportation solutions.
• Public transit is often viewed as an “after thought.” Can developer incentives be tied to the
development of public transit infrastructure?
• Create a data-based presentation using storytelling to message the benefits of mass transit that can
be customized and used by cities to educate local elected officials
• Educate local city councils on the benefits of mass transit i.e. removes cars off the roads, less traffic
• Work with the local legislatures to encourage them to appropriate funds to finish public
transportation.
• WFRC and MAG create one vision plan for public transit that becomes the statewide plan that is
pushed to UTA, and the State
• Sign on to a joint resolution that supports transit policies
3: Incentivize public transportation through making it easier and more efficient for the user.
• Work with UTA to help public transportation to be more timely and efficient in my area.
• Focus on developing transit oriented development around high-quality/high-frequency transit. Not
just adding more transit.
• Utilize TIF or EDTIF incentives as a tool to force businesses to provide passes for workers
• Free fares for all public transportation. More schedules for connecting buses.
• Free fares for public transportation.
• Free wifi on busses and heated bus stops to incentivize workforce ridership.
• For counties that have not adopted the 4th and 5th transportation quarters--go through process to
adopt for enhanced transit funding (to provide decreased or fare-free).

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

93

Natural Resources
1: Balance open space with growth and development.
• Growth is going to happen, so, let’s grow responsibly with a combination of different housing densities
and open spaces.
• State legislation that mandates open space preservation or development based on the size of a
development
• Identify community priorities for the types of lands to acquire/preserve (ie. agricultural, sensitive lands,
wetlands, areas in high density areas) and how we want to use them.
• Incentivize open space or trail development through density bonuses
• Open space bonding by out public to provide additional funding sources.
• A group that identifies existing/potential green spaces and best practices for community green spaces
is formed, they identify and acquire green spaces making them parks, etc
• Open spaces and trails need to connect from county to county. A “Ridge to Rivers” collaboration.
• provide incentives or matching funding for open space purchases
• Ensure local governments have local control over development
• Can the legislature provide $ for green space acquisition?
• Inventory open space in our entire region and create a unified plan for preservation.
• Identify open space areas and areas for ag protection and help preserve these area.
• Legislative mandate for a minimum requirement for open space and allow cities to add to additional
requirements
• Need to de-silo the themes - they’re interrelated and desired outcomes cannot be realized until
considered collectively and respective resources are pooled.
• Buy green spaces next to water - rivers, steams and ponds to preserve access, safety and use of
precious water resources.
2: Make Utah lake a more attractive venue for recreation and build a regional vision for its future.
• Need greater awareness and exposure to best practices within and outside of our region, in terms of
policies, funding, design, etc.
• Better lake-side amenities/infrastructure.
• There are plans and proposals that are valid to address concerns about Utah Lake. The problem is
funding. How can we get state/federal funds to execute a project?
• The carp in the lake must go or become agriculture.
• Work with the county to get more resources for the preservation of the lake.
• Find a billionaire investor whose only focus in life is restoring Utah Lake :) Or create a comprehensive
funding strategy.
• Get buy-in from all regions of Utah County on a unified county wide plan to responsibly develop and
utilize Utah Lake. Protect its natural beauty while utilizing its economic benefits
• Utah Lake needs clean water coming from sewage processors to remain good for recreation.
• Stop studying Utah Lake, Clean the Lake up and create a regional plan to upgrade all the amenities
• A regional view of Utah Lake and its future use has to consider east west connectivity.
• Consider ‘cap and trade’ program, where ‘dirty’ industry critical to the economy pays into a fund, which
is then used to strategically add to/enhance natural resources elsewhere
• Can we connect Wakara Way project with the rest of the surrounding areas?

94

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

3: Identify the greatest threats/causes of air pollution and identify solutions in the region.
• Can we incentive more EV vehicles, solar power, reduce green house emission through tax credits?
• Have local universities study air pollution and water pollution to see where the sources are. They can
also test solutions. Has this already been done?
• Utilize MAG as part of the transportation arm to address pollution to bring all regional partners to the
table to create solutions
• Conduct a pollution audit and produce action plan to address threats
• Find ways in the community to have more EV charging stations.
• Can we create public campaigns focused on educating citizens on various solutions to mitigate air
pollution?
• Vehicle emissions account for 40% of air pollution. Provide a local system to encourage “work from
home” days when air quality is in the medium range so it doesn’t get bad.
• Extensively incentivize alternatives to individual vehicles.
• Research the benefits of a traffic congestion mitigation tax
• Create cheap scrubbers for industrial and car exhaust.
• Cycling infrastructure needs to be developed as protected lanes if we are going to gain any real
mobility improvement in this area.

Livability
1: Protect local control, supporting the community and sense of place.
• Can we seek to understand the various viewpoints of developers serving in the state legislation and
refrain from name calling?
• Bar developers serving on zoning committees. Conflict of interest.
• Can local government lawmakers strive for an open mindset to seek to understand the reasoning and
intent behind state legislation with regards to community and sense of place?
• We need to stick together on local control issues. The legislature dangles carrots before one entity,
while stripping away local control in another, so the support isn’t there.
• Include professional staff in the conversations, not just elected officials.
• Advertise and hold each city days celebration as an important, annual community event.
• Promote ethical behavior awareness by prosecuting unlawful behavior like embezzling and other
white collar crime.
• Pass legislation that does not allow state legislature to bypass local entities
• All municipalities and counties unified in addressing any state legislation that takes away local control
• Collaborate with our local state legislators to rollback state mandates to local municipalities and stop
new ones from being passed.
• Decisions concerning growth and planning must occur at the local level. Propose legislation that keeps
control locally.
• Local control comes w/ a responsibility. State can and should play a key role, but should be based on
outcomes w/ local control as to how those outcomes are achieved.
• Can we work with our local legislators and the ULCT to protect local control?

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

95

2: Have a more equitable and collaborative relationship between cities, the state, and developers to achieve highquality, livable communities.
• Have a welcome packet or committee visit for new move ins to any city so they know more about how
the city runs and what it is known for: history, city days, farmer’s market, etc
• Work together on a shining example of a well-planned, highly functional, economically vibrant,
equitable, mobile, and affordable community, then replicate
• Force developers to be part of the answer vice providing incentives or reduction in fees. Hold them
accountable for their development
• Developers are influencing state policies that affects local government in ways that often do not
support livable communities. Better checks and balances are needed.
• Real estate is a market issue. Zoning ordinances can nudge varied development.
• Stop electing developers to state legislation
• Weaken/disarm the developer lobby at state legislature
• Many cities I’ve talked to realize that growth is coming, but their residents are against growth. They are
asking the state to come in and “be the fall guy”. Education for the public is key.
• Can we meet quarterly with the county and cities to coordinate and strategize?
3: Address affordable/attainable housing for all income levels and near transportation networks.
• Institute deed restrictions. Without the deed restrictions we cannot ensure that affordable product
remains affordable into the future.
• Can we zone that a percentage of a new housing development will be dedicated to affordable housing
ie. 10% of a project?
• Allow local entities to regulate short term rentals accordingly
• Implement a statewide 10% Low to Moderate Income housing allocation on all development over 10
homes or 10 apartments
• The use of AI could be used to determine the correct ratio between the types of jobs (wages paid) and
the households needed to support them.
• We need to incentivize builders to build affordable / attainable housing so their business remains
profitable.
• Lobby for legislation to allow for inclusionary zoning, so local governments can require a certain
amount of affordable housing (at least 20%) for each development project.
• Cities to work with UTA to create zoning around transportation networks that require an LMI
component
• Work with the city and developers to provide affordable housing in areas where a robust public
transportation system is in place.
• We should have a better understanding of the role that institutional investors play in the housing
market.
• Pricing housing to no more than 30% of a households income requires a subsidy? Where should that
subsidy come from? Tax cuts vs. Subsidies?
• Find out what state and local programs that are available for developers to fund affordable housing
and not just high density housing.
• Jobs to housing balance needs to be more clearly defined and acted upon.
• Incentivize affordable housing

96

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Regional Cooperation
1: Work as a region to forge strategic partnerships at the county, state, and legislature.
• If the public insists that city, county, and state representatives work together (or not get re-elected)
then we can forge partnerships. When it becomes important, it will happen.
• Under MAG, create a regional team that includes cities and counties that address legislative and
regional questions.
• Sign on to a regional policy agenda addressing critical issues and advocate for those policies at the
state level
• Can we meet quarterly to work on strategic goals?
• Regional partnerships should focus on framework building strategies that will allow for difficult
conversations.
• Consider working together on a set of high-priority projects as opposed to trying to address macroissues at the regional scale.
• Utilize MAG to help facilitate regularly scheduled meetings with key stakeholders in the region.
• Have a group of city/county managers and planners meet regularly to discuss and research shared
problems. Have them invite professional to present different solutions.
• We should use XSP strategies to help the region plan for an uncertain future. The use of AI data
should also be integrated.
• MAG should assume the role as a regional coordinator. It has to be a neutral organization to get buyin from everyone.
• Create a regional educational/training forum
• What does the term “ Coordination Role” mean with regards to MAG? Economic development
strategies should remain local.
• Have make assume the regional economic development coordination role and identify if the Northern
Utah Economic Alliance is a good model or could serve as a framework

2: Can we investigate best practices, education/training & technologies to get the best solutions
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Have local universities research specific problems and the current and future solutions available.
Make sure they interview leading professionals for their input and ideas.
We need to have a dedicated resource that can investigate solutions for cooperation, implement
them, and manage them. It can’t just be a job task.
Collaborate with the Silicon slopes business to keep up with the latest technology available and
provide that information to the local municipalities.
Work closely with MTECH, UVU and the school districts to provide ongoing training for businesses
that are already established.
MAG as a regional Economic Development Organization to create sub groups to investigate best
practices and then report back to the group as a whole
State is working to de-silo resources to affect local change that would otherwise be beyond their
resources and capacity (e.g. regional opportunity team). Build upon this.
Coordinate with BYU, UVU, MATC to investigate best practices and latest research
I’ve seen programs require partnerships between key stakeholders as a requirement of grant
applications, with great success. Could help if adequately funded.
Can MAG create a training program that uses best practices and cutting-edge technologies to teach
leaders in the three counties how to create good solutions?

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

97

3: Can we have MAG assume the regional coordination role for economic development issues
•
•
•
•
•
•

Having been to MAG meetings, the content is very important. However, most don’t pay attention. We
need to have those who are supposed to coordinate work appropriately w/ MAG.
Have MAG meet quarterly with ED professionals.
If MAG assumes the role of economic development for the region then they need to have meetings
with the economic developers in the cities, not the mayors also EDCUtah & GOEO.
Continue the MEDD to focus on collaborative issues. This is a great MAG forum for continued
conversations.
In order to become a regional EDO, MAG will need to hire more people to address all the diverse
issue, i.e. business recruitment, retention, advocate for development, marketing and more
MAG sets goals and objectives based on input from the cities and others to coordinate working
meetings where the city developers and elected officials work together.

These objectives were considered alongside the data and themes of other stakeholder input to provide
initial draft strategies. The drafted strategies were shared with MEDD staff and leadership in advance of
the evaluation workshop.

98

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

EVALUATION WORKSHOP
Introduction
The Mountainland Association of Governments (MAG) hosted a virtual workshop with a small group
of regional leaders to determine how each strategy would be measured for ongoing evaluation. Prior
to the workshop, participants were given a draft of strategies based on data and previous stakeholder
engagements. Five (5) CEDS Committee members attended with representation from Summit, Wasatch,
and Utah counties. The session was held via Zoom and utilized Google Jamboard for collaborative work.

Approach
Participants reviewed and discussed the draft strategies. They were asked to provide feedback and
revisions. Participants were then separated into two (2) small groups to discuss and collaborate on one
focus area per group. For each focus area, they were asked to identify outcomes, metrics, timelines,
collaborators, resources, and catalysts. Prompts included:
• Describe the outcome of success.
• What metrics do we need to measure success?
• Who is already monitoring these metrics?
• What is a reasonable timeline to accomplish this?
• Who could be a driving force in this effort?
• Who could provide strong support to move this forward?
• What is on the horizon that might spur progress?
•
After debriefing with all session participants, this activity was repeated with the other two focus areas.
After the second breakout activity, participants discussed key takeaways, any lack of consensus, items of
greatest difficulty, and any other concerns.

Results and Follow-up
Only minor changes were suggested for the draft strategies. Results of the session were integrated into
this document’s Evaluation Framework.
Following the session, participants received an email thanking them for their participation, asking for
additional feedback and revisions, and reminding them of the survey deadline. Participants were given
the opportunity to review the full CEDS draft before posting for public comment.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

99

SURVEY
Introduction
The Mountainland Association of Governments
(MAG) launched a 2-week survey to gather
additional insights into the themes presented in
the workshops and initial strategy session. The
survey received 220 completed responses. Survey
results were analyzed and compared with data
from research and previous stakeholder feedback.

Instrument
Section 1: Transportation
1. Which of the following best describes your role in
the Mountainland Region?
• General Public
• Business Owner/Manager/Leader
• Nonprofit/Community Organization Leader
or Staff
• Educational Institution Leader or Staff
• Healthcare and Emergency Services Leader
or Staff
• Economic Development/Business
Organization Leader or Staff
• Government Official Leader or Staff
2. In which county do you live?
• Summit
• Wasatch
• Utah
• I do not live in the MEDD region.
3. In which county do you work?
• Summit
• Wasatch
• Utah
• I do not work in the MEDD region.
4. Please select your top 2 priorities regarding
transportation & infrastructure in your region.
• Route expansions for public transit
• Increased ridership for public transit
• Reduced cost of public transit
• Reduced traffic
• Faster transportation routes
• Expanded options for multi-modal transit
(walking, cycling, etc.)
• Other
100

5. Current public transportation options meet the
needs of the community.
• Scale 1=Agree, 3=Neutral, 5=Disagree
6. I can easily and efficiently travel throughout my
region.
• Scale 1=Agree, 3=Neutral, 5=Disagree
7. To what degree do transportation challenges impact
the ability of workers to travel for employment?
• Scale 1=No Impact, 3=Moderate Impact,
5=Major Impact
8. To what degree do transportation challenges impact
the ability of local residents and visitors to travel for
recreation or basic needs (like groceries)?
• Scale 1=No Impact, 3=Moderate Impact,
5=Major Impact
9. Please leave any additional comments you have
about transportation & infrastructure in your
community.
Section 2: Natural Resources
1. Please select your top priority regarding natural
resources in your region
• Enhanced natural disaster preparedness
programming
• Expanded pollution mitigation & reduction
efforts
• Manage tourism surrounding natural assets
• Stronger protections and/or restrictions
surrounding natural assets
• Other
2. I utilize my community’s outdoor amenities (i.e.,
parks, trails, waterways)
• Almost daily
• About once per week
• Multiple times per month
• Multiple times per year
• Less frequently than twice per year
3. Natural disasters and/or natural hazards threaten
local business operations in my community.
•
Scale 1=Agree, 3=Neutral, 5=Disagree
4. My community is prepared for natural disasters.
• Scale 1=Agree, 3=Neutral, 5=Disagree
5. My community is taking appropriate steps to
mitigate pollution.
• Scale 1=Agree, 3=Neutral, 5=Disagree

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

6. To what degree does population, business, or
tourism growth threaten your community’s natural
resources?
• 1=No Impact, 3=Moderate Impact, 5=Major
Impact
7. Please leave any additional comments you have
about natural resources in your community.

Section 3: Livability
1. Please select your top 3 priorities to improve quality
of life in your region.
• Increased wages
• Increased access to jobs
• Improved housing affordability
• Greater access to affordable healthcare
• Greater access to affordable higher
education
• Increased funding for K-12
• Greater diversity among residents
• Increased access to affordable early
education and childcare options
• Increased access to open spaces
• Increased public safety
• Other
2. To what degree does the lack of affordable housing
impact your community?
• Scale 1=No Impact, 3=Moderate Impact,
5=Major Impact
3. To what degree does the lack of accessible
and affordable childcare options impact your
community?
• Scale 1=No Impact, 3=Moderate Impact,
5=Major Impact
4. To what degree does the lack of healthcare access
and affordability impact your community?
• Scale 1=No Impact, 3=Moderate Impact,
5=Major Impact
5. My community is welcoming to people of all
backgrounds.
• Scale 1=Agree, 3=Neutral, 5=Disagree
6. Entry-level jobs in my community pay a livable wage.
• Scale 1=Agree, 3=Neutral, 5=Disagree
7. Please leave any additional comments you have
about education & workforce opportunities in your
community.

Section 4: Collaboration
1. Please select your top 2 priorities regarding
collaboration in your region.
• Improved coordination of municipalities
within my county
• Improved coordination between Utah,
Summit, and Wasatch Counties
• Improved coordination between the region
and the state of Utah
• Improved coordination between leaders and
subject matter experts
• Improved coordination between economic
development professionals
• Coordination between educational
institutions and businesses
• Other
2. Public officials in my community regularly
communicate their activities to businesses and
community members.
• Scale 1=Agree, 3=Neutral, 5=Disagree
3. Public officials in my community are collaborative.
• Scale 1=Agree, 3=Neutral, 5=Disagree
4. Please leave any additional comments you have
about local government & collaboration in your
community.
5. What are the most important issues facing local
businesses from an economic development
perspective? (Please select up to 3)
• Transportation infrastructure
• Availability of attainable housing for
employees
• Recruiting a qualified workforce
• Retaining Workers
• Cost of doing business (labor costs)
• Cost of doing business (non-labor costs, e.g.
overhead, materials)
• Supply chain issues
• Energy infrastructure
• Water infrastructure
• Air/water quality
• Communications infrastructure (including
broadband)
• Limited economic incentives (e.g. tax
rebates, subsidies, etc.)
• Access to capital
• Other

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

101

Other
Select all subjects for which you have professional
expertise or experience.
• Education
• Healthcare
• Housing
• Transportation
• Economic Development
• Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
• Environment and Natural Resources
• Government Policy
• I do not have professional expertise or
experience in any of the above subjects.
Name (optional)
Email (optional)

SURVEY RESULTS
Participant Demographics

Exhibits 56 & 57: Survey Participant Residential and Employment Locations

Where Participants Live
7% 4%

Where Participants Work

Summit County
Wasatch County

7%

8%

14%

Utah County
10%

82%

102

68%

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

None of the above

Exhibit 58: Survey Participant Self-Identified Stakeholder Type

General Public
41%

Business Owner/
Manager/Leader
17%

Exhibit 59: Survey Participant Self-Identified Area of Expertise

Education

34%

Healthcare

15%

Housing
Transportation

20%
14%

Economic Development

28%

Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion
Environment and Natural Resources

17%
11%

Government Policy
None of the Above

32%
25%

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

103

Transportation & Infrastructure
Priority Rankings
Participants were asked to select their top 2 priorities regarding transportation and infrastructure in the
region.

Exhibit 60: Survey Participant Transportation & Infrastructure Priority Rankings
Priority

# Selected

Reduced traffic

147

Faster transportation routes

104

Route expansions for public transit

89

Expanded options for multi-modal
transit (walking, cycling, etc.)

45

Increased ridership for public transit

21

Reduced cost of public transit

14

104

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Additional Transportation Questions
Participants responded to each question on a sliding scale from 1 to 5.

Exhibit 61: Survey Participant Transportation & Infrastructure Likert Scale Responses
Agree

Neutral

Disagree

Current public transportation options
meet the needs of the community.
0%

No Impact

10% 20% 30%

40% 50%

Moderate Impact

60% 70% 80% 90% 100%

Major Impact

To what degree do transportation
challenges impact the ability of local
residents and visitors to travel for
recreation or basic needs?
To what degree do transportation
challenges impact the ability of
workers to travel for employment?
0%

10% 20% 30%

40% 50%

60% 70% 80% 90% 100%

Experts’ Opinions
Those that identified themselves as having expertise in transportation identified similar priorities, with
reduced traffic and faster transportation routes as their top two. However, they were less likely than
the participants overall to agree that transportation challenges majorly impact the ability of workers to
travel for employment. 32% of those with transportation expertise rated it a 4 or 5 in terms of impact, as
opposed to 55% of total participants.

Additional Comments
Participants’ additional comments primarily focused on improving infrastructural supports for highway a
major corridor travel, in addition to a focus on multimodal transport accessibility such as bike lanes and
public transit extensions. Interest in public transit focused on expanding into Utah County, with light rail
and Front Runner cited most often.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

105

Natural Resources
Priority Rankings and Outdoor Amenity Usage
Participants were asked to select their top priority regarding natural resources in the region. They were
also asked how often they use their communities’ outdoor amenities.

Exhibit 62: Survey Participant Natural Resources Priority Rankings
Priority
Priority

# Selected
Selected
#

Expanded pollution mitigation
& reduction efforts
Stronger protections and/or
restrictions surrounding natural assets
Enhanced natural disaster
preparedness programming

51

Manage tourism surrounding
natural assets

30

77

41

Exhibit 63: Survey Participant Reported Outdoor Amenities Utilization

I utilize my community’s outdoor amenities:
76

52
33

106

Less frequently than
twice per year

Multiple times
per year

Multiple times
per month

Almost daily

7

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Additional Natural Resources Questions
Participants responded to each question on a sliding scale from 1 to 5.

Exhibit 64: Survey Participant Natural Resources Likert Scale Responses
Agree

Neutral

Disagree

My community is taking appropriate
steps to mitigate pollution.

My community is prepared for
natural disasters.
0%

10% 20% 30%

No Impact

40% 50%

Moderate Impact

60% 70% 80% 90% 100%

Major Impact

To what degree does population,
business, or tourism growth threaten
your community’s natural resources?
0%

10% 20% 30%

40% 50%

60% 70% 80% 90% 100%

Experts’ Opinion
Those that identified themselves as having expertise in natural resources and environmental issues
reported slightly different priorities, with stronger protections and/or restrictions and managing tourism
ranked highest. Experts largely agreed with the overall participants’ Likert scale responses.

Additional Comments
Additional comments regarding natural resources focused primarily on environmental concerns and
development planning. Many participants expanded upon concerns regarding water availability and
quality, as well as the health and safety implications regarding worsening air quality. Participants also
expressed a desire for future development planning to prioritize the preservation of green spaces
and local wildlife protections, noting that rapid population growth is putting a strain on resources and
potentially leading to a lack of forethought in development.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

107

Quality of Life
Priority Rankings
Participants were asked to select their top 3 priorities regarding quality of life in the region.

Exhibit 65: Survey Participant Quality of Life Priority Rankings
Priority
Priority

# Selected
Selected
#

Improved housing affordability

149

Increased wages

106

Increased access to open spaces

78

Increased public safety

62

Greater access to
affordable healthcare

52

Increased funding for K-12

49

Increased access to jobs

38

Increased access to affordable early
education and childcare options

29

Greater diversity among residents

25

Greater access to affordable
higher education

17

108

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Additional Quality of Life Questions
Participants responded to each question on a sliding scale from 1 to 5.

Exhibit 66: Survey Participant Quality of Life Likert Scale Responses
Agree

Neutral

Disagree

Entry-level jobs in my community
pay a livable wage.

My community is welcoming to
people of all backgrounds.
0%

10% 20% 30%

No Impact

0%

10% 20% 30%

40% 50%

60% 70% 80% 90% 100%

Moderate Impact

40% 50%

Major Impact

60% 70% 80% 90% 100%

Experts’ Opinions
Experts in the relevant fields included in quality of life by and large agreed with the overall participants.
The primary categories of expertise in this section included housing, healthcare, and DEI. In all three
cases, experts responded within a few percentage points of the general respondents’ on associated Likert
scale questions.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

109

Additional Comments
Additional comments regarding quality of life spanned several areas, including education, childcare,
and housing. Educational opportunities, especially for young children, were a noted priority, as was the
need for additional resources and funding to be funneled towards public schools in the region. Housing
affordability was also key, especially for workforce and in more densely populated areas and bedroom
communities with less workforce opportunities immediately available to residents.

Collaboration
Priority Rankings
Participants were asked to select their top 2 priorities regarding collaboration in the region.

Exhibit 67: Survey Participant Collaboration Priority Rankings
Priority
Priority
Improved coordination of
municipalities within my county
Improved coordination between the
region and the state of Utah
Increased access to open spaces
Improved coordination between
economic development professionals
Improved coordination between
leaders and subject matter experts
Coordination between educational
institutions and businesses
Improved coordination between Utah,
Summit, and Wasatch Counties

110

# Selected
Selected
#
106
87
78
68
67
52
43

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Additional Collaboration Questions
Participants responded to each question on a sliding scale from 1 to 5.

Exhibit 68: Survey Participant Collaboration Likert Scale Responses

Agree

0%

Neutral

10% 20% 30%

40% 50%

Disagree

60% 70% 80% 90% 100%

Additional Comments
Additional comments regarding collaboration focused on a few main areas. Participants largely agreed
that vertical communication and collaboration (between state, county, and city leadership) needs
significant improvement. Also noted was a need for increased city cooperation and support for local
businesses, especially regarding navigating regulations and obstacles as they arise. Many participants
expressed a need for increased transparency and communication to the general public, and that
outreach could be expanded upon to better educate residents.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

111

Business Challenges
Participants were asked what challenges facing local businesses were most important from an economic
development perspective (up to 3)

Exhibit 69: Survey Participant Business Challenges Priority Rankings
Priority
Challenge

# Selected
Selected
#

Retaining workers

94

Availability of attainablehousing for
employees

90

Transportation infrastructure

89

Recruiting a qualified workforce

70

Cost of doing business (labor costs)

66

Cost of doing business (non-labor
costs, e.g. overhead, materials)
Limited economic incentives (e.g. tax
rebates, subsidies, etc.)

112

53
27

Air/Water quality

23

Supply chain issues

22

Communications infrastructure
(including broadband)

16

Water infrastructure

14

Energy infrastructure

6

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

APPENDIX G
PUBLIC COMMENT
The 30-day public commenting period opened on November 1, 2023 and closed on December 1, 2023.
Comments were gathered via a survey form which provides both structured and open-ended response
opportunities. The survey included the following eleven (11) questions:
1. Which of the following best represents your role in the Mountainland Region? (Multiple choice)
2. In which county do you live? (Multiple choice)
3. In which county do you work? (Multiple choice)
4. Please describe your level of support for the regional vision. (Likert scale)
5. Please provide your general feedback for Goal 1: Provide a safe, connected, and accessible regional
transportation network to meet current and future needs. (Open ended)
6. Please provide your general feedback for Goal 2: Balance regional growth, tourism development, and
the protection of natural resources. (Open ended)
7. Please provide your general feedback for Goal 3: Improve quality of life to support the region’s
workforce and communities. (Open ended)
8. Please provide your general feedback for Goal 4: Accelerate problem-solving and build economic
resiliency through increased collaboration. (Open ended)
9. Please share any additional feedback about the Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy.
Reference page numbers whenever possible. (Open ended)
10. Name (Optional)
11. Email address (Optional)
A total of eighteen (18) responses were collected. Of those responses, some participants only answered
questions regarding their locational relationship with the region (questions 1-3). Approximately 10
participants answered all or most questions.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

113

The CEDS Committee assessed all feedback provided. Each comment submitted for questions 4-9 is
listed on the following pages alongside icons indicating its status as accepted, reviewed, or flagged. We
appreciate all of the feedback submitted for this process. All comments submitted are considered to
improve the strategy and the collaborative process used to develop it.
Accepted – Comment has provided feedback that was either integrated within the CEDS or is
considered to be fully aligned with the CEDS.
Reviewed – Comment has been reviewed and considered. While the opinions expressed are
important and respected, no specific action is needed at this time.
Flagged – Comment warrants more in-depth discussion among MEDD leadership and key
stakeholders to decide what, if any, action should be taken moving forward.
Comments included varying attitudes towards investment in public transit, all of which provide valuable
perspectives related to regional identity and priorities. Ease of transit has been prioritized because of
both the economic and sustainability implications, and these investments aim to improve quality of life
and workforce participation.
Some respondents commented on the stakeholders engaged in developing the CEDS. The project team
engaged a diverse cross-section of key stakeholders in each county. A public survey was distributed,
which informed the goals and strategies included in the CEDS plan. The public has also been given the
opportunity to provide feedback on the document over a 30-day period. Efforts were made to share
the information as widely as project resources allowed. The project team considered all segments of
the region’s population when developing the plan and hopes that the strategies advance economic
prosperity for all.
Finally, some respondents would argue that too much economic planning hinders the free market. The
project team understands the importance of private enterprise to the region’s economic success, and
ultimately hopes to ensure that the region is a community where quality employers feel comfortable
locating their businesses and workforce.
While some comments prompted immediate corrections within the document, others served as context
and valuable considerations for how collaboration, implementation, and prioritization may occur moving
forward. An annual review of the plan, adjustments, and reporting will be completed, allowing the
opportunity for integrating suggestions where appropriate.
While the Mountainland Association of Governments is responsible for developing and maintaining the
regional CEDS, the deployment of this CEDS requires that work on these objectives will be advanced by
many organizations within the ecosystem and across practice areas. The purpose of this plan is to share
information and better align efforts within the ecosystem with this strategy.

114

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Status

Comment
I believe that we need to invest in alternate ways of transportation than driving. We are in a valley with
limited space, and we need to utilize the land we already have. We can only have so many parking lots
where economically beneficial businesses and homes could be. Biking infrastructure and mass transit
should take priority over freeways.
The campaign is not needed - I think most people know the importance. Spend money on 1.1.2 thru
1.1.4
Regional transportation would be great. We have made a lot of inroads into this area between Summit
and Wasatch Counties. Any help from the legislator would be appreciated!!
We don’t need to spend millions of dollars on a campaign to tell people how beneficial public
transportation is. People already know that it would be better for the environment, but they don’t
want to do it. People love their cars and their privacy. Not many people want to ride a bus or train with
a bunch strangers when they can take their own car, do their own thing, and not be dependent on a
schedule to get where they want to go.
WE ALREADY HAVE TRANSPORTATION METHODS IN PLACE ALREADY. THEY ARE SERIOUSLY
UNDERUSED. WE HAVE TO STOP SPENDING MONEY. THAT IS WHERE THIS CRAZINESS HAS TO START.
WE REALLY DON'T WANT MORE PEOPLE MOVING HERE SO WHY SHOULD WE PAY TO FACILITATE THAT.
MAYBE IF WE STOP DOING THAT THE MOTIVATION TO COME HERE WILL STOP AND WE CAN CONTINUE
TO LIVE LIKE WE WANTED TO.
I have lived in Provo, Springville and now Spanish Fork. As the Front Runner has come to Utah County,
I have seen an increase in homelessness and begging on corners. I believe this is because of the lack of
fare enforcement as well as the increase in access to our cities. I confess as I’m hearing plans to expand
the Front Runner south I fear that homelessness will increase in Spanish Fork. I think this needs to be
considered as the transportation network is expanded.
Determine first who will ride this regional transit. Is there demand. Prioritize car travel for now. Mass
transit is not practical for families with children
I think we need a stronger and more reliable mass transit system. What we have is great, but busses
only go so far. Whether it be clean busses, more frontrunner trains or a track system in Utah and
Summit/Wasatch Counties we need to find a way to get around without flooding the valley with car
exhaust.
That sound alright, I suppose, depending upon the details. I think that the best transportation systems
facilitate the private sector and keep-up with its free-market development. What I dislike is trying to
crowd people against their will into public mass-transit, and to compel some people to pay for other
people's fares, which is essentially legalized plunder. Let's not go there.
Transportation plans should carefully analyze current public transportation shortfalls, ie UVX has taken
over approx 3 lanes of traffic on university parkway. The busses are almost completely empty most of
the day, everyday. However 3 lanes (which includes the center boarding area) remain mostly unused
while traffic congests the driving lanes. Is the trade off actually working? Why not smaller busses using
regular driving lanes utilized until there is a greater need? Cap university enrollment in respect to the
cities/citizens these schools operate in, rather than continue to expand enrollment and campuses.
Planning seems to be in-organic but rather following an agenda coming from outside of the local area.
What is actually going on here?

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

115

Status

Comment
I agree with the statement, although it is very broad. I think our priority should be on preserving the
natural environment that surrounds us and to use the space we already have more efficiently.
Focus on section 1.2.3 and where to invest - don't over-index on studies - keep them limited

Not sure we need more tourism development in Summit County. At times we are overrun with tourists.
Again, another expensive and useless study is not needed to tell us the impacts of growth. Tourism is
great and makes money for businesses, but I don’t think we need to spend billions of dollars to promote
and advertise it. If the businesses that are making the money from the tourism want to advertise then
they should pay for it, not the taxpayers. I do agree regulations need to be put on businesses to prevent
and/or reduce pollution.
AGAIN I THINK IF WE STOP SPENDING MORE AND MORE MONEY TO FACILITATE "GROWTH" IT WILL
SLOW THE "GROWTH" DOWN. WE DON'T WANT ANY MORE "GROWTH". IT IS SERIOUSLY RUINING OUR
STATE AND QUALITY OF LIFE IN UTAH!
I don’t think tourism development should be a top priority. It is a limited number of individuals who
profit the most off tourism, yes it creates jobs but are the good paying jobs? Seasonal mostly? We
should be working to balance regional growth and natural resources. Focus on making our region a nice
place to live BEfORE making it a nice place to visit.
While it is important to have businesses and attract businesses to the area, we need to keep it livable
for the residents. People can't afford rent or mortgages. People can't afford insurance. Groceries have
skyrocketed. These need to be looked at. Also, Utah is known for it's great outdoors, we need to protect
it or it will not be here any more.
I think that free citizens do this better than central planners. The plans of the few are inferior to the
plans of the many. And environmentalism thrives best in free-market economies in which people earn
ever-more than subsistence. The USA gave birth to the environmental movement, while the USSR was
an environmental disaster.
It doesn’t appear that regional growth is being balanced. It appears there is a “growth mentality”.
Coming from a large city I recognize growth is a choice. It would seem according to Goal 2 that this
choosing would consider the finite resources living in a high desert, sandwiched between 2 mountain
ranges brings. Once destroyed it is gone forever. At some point there needs to be a thorough analysis
of what population this valley can sustain BEFORE new growth initiatives are promoted. Making
walkable communities with compressed populations doesn’t assist with the burdening of resources. It is
imperative this be addressed. It’s LONG overdue.

116

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Status

Comment
I think having an area in a community that is focused on socializing and recreation, and make sure it is
easily accessible to everyone by walking, further making exercise and socializing easier.
All parts of Goal 3 are important
Our quality of life is awesome now! Not sure there is much room for improvement, unless you can stop
development.
Housing is definitely the number one issue facing the majority of the state right now. The prices are
astronomical and not realistic for people given most of the wages in the state. The housing problem
needs to be addressed in a very careful way. We can’t just build, build, build without consequences. We
need to think of the impact all of the building is going to have on water, electricity, and other resources.
It seems like city governments are quick to approve new building projects just because of the tax
increase that it brings to them, but they don’t consider the long term costs to the current residents or
resources.
I GENUINELY FEEL THAT THE BEST WAY TO PROTECT OUR QUALITY OF LIFE IN UTAH IS TO SLOW THE
GROWTH AND TO TRY TO RETURN TO OUR PREVIOUS LIFE STYLE. THE ONE WHERE WE KNEW OUT
NEIGHBORS AND COULD AFFORD OUR OWN HOUSES. MAYBE WE SHOULD BE MORE CONCERNED
ABOUT TAKING CARE OF THE PEOPLE THAT HAVE LIVED HERE FOR YEARS INSTEAD OF SPENDING MORE
AND MORE TAX DOLLARS TO ATTRACT MORE PEOPLE. LOWER THE PROPERTY TAXES FOR SENIORS AND
LONG TIME RESIDENTS. STOP THE GREED!!!
Sure, but would like to make sure this is balanced with listening to what individual communities want.
Not forcing high density housing into every city. Focus more on help for the inversions and water needs
Again, we need to protect the quality of life of the residents. Housing is unaffordable. Period. End of
statement. Housing is unaffordable. My husband and I both work over 40 hours and can not afford a
mortgage. That is ridiculous. I pay 40% of my income to rent. I'd like my kids to be able to do fun things
but can't afford it because after we pay rent, there is very little left. Something needs to be done.
I think that the best way to improve quality-of-life is to leave markets free by helping people to ably
defend their equal God-given (or natural) rights to both property and contract. This allows everincreasing standards-of-living, as businesspeople steadily innovate toward more efficient, effective, wellcustomized ways to serve customers. Subjugating free markets to the heavy hand of oligarchs produces
far worse results for everyone, except perhaps the ruling class.
Quality of live is reflected in families and individuals thriving. They need clean air, clean water, and the
means/ability to own private property. Cities direct that very well, and SHOULD be the driving force in
directing what takes place within their city. While frontrunner has been successful in moving people
North and south to SLC it has not alleviated I-15 (at 6 lanes on either side) at capacity. Again unrestricted
growth must be addressed by each city - where these kinds of decisions are best understood.

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

117

Status

Comment
I support collaboration between cities, counties, states, and all other areas.
Same here - all parts of Goal 4 are important to execute.
Collaboration is always good!
I don’t really know who all of these “stakeholders” are but I’m guessing it’s the rich people and business
owners who run the state. We are all citizens of Utah, so in my eyes, we are all “stakeholders” and we
all have a right and a responsibility to make sure that things are being done the right way and in a way
that is best for everyone. There definitely needs to be better communication between government and
citizens. It seems like to many decisions that affect many people are being made behind closed doors, at
the fancy restaurant, or out on the golf course with “the boys”. That needs to stop.
INCREASED COLLABORATION SOUNDS TO ME LIKE MORE MONEY SPENT ON MORE PEOPLE MAKING
BIGGER AND BIGGER PLANS. LET THE MARKET WORK ON IT'S OWN. WE NEED LESS TALKING AND
PLANNING AND MORE WORKING FOR THE EXISTING CITIZENS THAT ARE PAYING ALL THE TAXES.
ENOUGH IS ENOUGH!
I think it’s great that the different counties talk together more frequently. Collaboration is always helpful.
This goal is vague and unclear. Increased collaboration sounds more like increased red-tape caused by a
concentration of power at the top telling cities what and how to build out.
People need to speak to ALL of the residents, and encourage their input. I'm sick of only businesses'
opinion mattering.
I think that people can figure out how to do this without the heavy hand of political edicts involved. If
there's a need for it, then one should be able to freely persuade enough people to do it on their own--perhaps not everyone, but enough. It's only bad ideas that require coercion.
Collaboration with stakeholders who DO NOT have to live with the outcome of decisions is
wrongheaded. Growth seems to be the goal. It’s actually advantageous and very wise to know when to
stop growing so we don’t overtax the natural resources of an area.

118

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

Status

Comment
I think it’s a great outline. I support the call for density and would like to see more about transit oriented
development.
Studies should be short and time-bound. While I am an elected council-person, I have a demanding
global position, and when I compare business initiatives vs government initiatives, I see too much time
and not enough action. Prioritize the various elements of the goals and move forward appropriately.
I JUST REALLY WISH YOU WOULD CONSIDER JUST LETTING THINGS SLOW DOWN AND WORK TO EASE
THE BURDENS OF THE TAXPAYERS THAT LIVE HERE. WE ARE TAXED TO DEATH. WORK TO FACILITATE
OUR LIVES AND THE COST OF LIVING WE ARE TRYING TO MAINTAIN!
Page 28, the forecast for continued steady growth is unlikely. US Census shows an increase of 16,855
residents from July 2021 to July 2022 in the three counties and Summit county actually lost residents
during this time, see Annual Estimates of the Resident Population for Counties in Utah: April 1, 2020
to July 1, 2022 (CO-EST2022-POP-49). Why not make a plan for slower population growth instead and
emphasize quality of life over building huge transportation networks like the MAG Transplan50?
4.1.4 - what is “progress”. Make sure that this document actually serves what the public wants. “Progress”
sounds like what is best for the developers who have the most to gain from all of these “goals”
I'm not keen on any sort of central economic planning. We don't need to emulate Soviet commissars.
Let's leave them on the ash-heap of history where they belong. Just defend people's rights to keep them
free, and then let them figure out the rest as free people. Free-market solutions are always superior to
heavy-handed political edicts.
"Most of this is totally unknown by the citizens. Your method of getting the word out is not working. I
have been to the citizen input meetings in Orem. Very poorly attended because most people were not
informed. You don’t have a true picture of what the people are thinking.
My biggest concern is I am seeing this same kind of “planning” happening all across the country. That
tells me it isn’t organic. The Wasatch front ought to be MUCH more concerned about finishing resources
in an arid land. Almost every other year the governor issues extreme drought warnings and restricted
use of water. Why is there 1,000,000 people coming in our near future? They cannot come if there is
no housing. It’s like the movie Field of Dreams “if you build it they will come”. It seems that is what is
happening."

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

119

APPENDIX H
RESOLUTION AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

120

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

We would like to acknowledge the CEDS Committee, MAG staff, and consultants whose leadership provided structure and guidance throughout the collaborative process to develop the
MEDD Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy.

CEDS COMMITTEE

Kendall Crittenden, County Council | Wasatch County
Dallin Koecher, Tourism and Economic Development Director | Wasatch County
Malena Stevens, County Council | Summit County
Jeffrey Jones, Economic Development and Housing Director | Summit County
Keith Morey, Economic Development Director | City of Provo
Kathi Lewis, Economic Development Director | City of Orem
Brian Hulet, Economic Development Board Member | City of Payson
Marlin Eldred, Economic Development Director | City of Lehi
Janeé Shaw, Outreach Manager | Governor’s Office of Economic Opportunity (GOEO)
Jennifer Wesselhoff, President & CEO | Visit Park City
David Rowley, Community and Government Relations Director | Utah Valley Chamber
Camille Pendleton, Director | Small Business Development Center
Peter Jay, Director | Utah Valley University Economic Development Office
John Talcott, Area Director | Department of Workforce Services
Mark Welcker, President & CEO | Point of the Mountain Chamber

STAFF

Jessica DeLora, Director of Community & Economic Development | MAG
Jack Davis, Economic Development Coordinator | MAG
Debbie Lauret, |CED Program Manager | MAG

CONSULTANTS

Brett Wiler, Strategic Advisor
Lindsay Bloos, Project Lead
Ashley Sharpley, Research Specialist

Libby Bowling, Project Support
Michaela Wischmeier, Project Support
Aaron Finley, Project Support

About TPMA
TPMA empowers organizations and communities through strategic partnerships and informed
solutions that create positive, sustainable change. TPMA provides professional consulting
services and delivers transparent insights to the complete workforce, education, and economic
development ecosystem that allows them to move forward, together. TPMA envisions a
world that thinks strategically, works collaboratively, and acts sustainably. Our economic
development approach aims to achieve community resiliency through economic diversity,
resource alignment, and community vibrancy. TPMA’s Economic Development and Community
Resiliency Team provides expertise in assessing markets, identifying business sector
opportunities, building innovation and entrepreneurial ecosystems, and conducting housing
assessments to assist communities in developing solutions for local housing challenges
consistent with community and economic development objectives. A variety of data sources
were used to collect data for this Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy. Attempts
were made to verify data as much as possible. Visit www.tpma-inc.com and follow TPMA on
social media, including LinkedIn, Facebook, and Twitter.
COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

121

586 E 800 N, Orem, UT 84097
801.229.3800 | hello@mountainland.org
mountainland.org
1

COMPREHENSIVE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 2024-2029 | MAG

