Conformity Determination for the MAG MPO Transportation Improvement Program 2024-2028

The Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) is a 5-year funded construction program.
MAG and our regional transportation partners, UDOT and UTA, funds projects,
programs, and studies to improve and expand the regional transportation network. MAG
funds about 250 million of the billion dollar 5-year program. Mountainland Association of
Government’s (MAG) MPO Transportation Improvement Program (TIP) 2024-2028 is
available at mountainland.org/tip. The final program will be voted on by the Regional
Planning Committee in their August 3, 2023 meeting.
The 30-day public comment period for the TIP concludes on August 2nd.
The current Transportation Authorization Bill - the Infrastructure Investment and Jobs
Act (IIJA) 2021 - and the Clean Air Act Amendments (CAAA) require that all regionally
significant highway and transit projects in air quality non-attainment and maintenance
areas be derived from a “conforming” Transportation Plan (Plan) and Transportation
Improvement Program (TIP).
A conforming Plan is one which has been analyzed for emissions of controlled air
pollutants and found to satisfy emission level limits established in the State
Implementation Plan (SIP) for air quality and must meet the requirements of EPA’s
Conformity Regulations for the Utah County and Provo City non-attainment areas. These
conformity analyses are made by the Mountainland MPO, as the Metropolitan Planning
Organization (MPO) for the region, and then submitted to the Utah Department of
Transportation, the Federal Highway Administration, and the Federal Transit
Administration for their concurrence. This conformity determination has been prepared
under the appropriate conformity regulations issued jointly by the EPA and US
Department of Transportation.
Section 93.122(g)(1) of the Transportation Conformity Rule (40 CFR part 93) states, “The
TIP may be demonstrated to [conform]... without new regional emissions analysis if the
regional emissions analysis already performed for the plan also applies to the TIP.”

This section includes the following three conditions. First, the TIP must include all
projects that must be started within the TIP timeframe in order to achieve the
transportation network envisioned in the Plan. Secondly, all regionally significant projects
in the TIP are included in the regional emissions analysis. Third, the design concept and
scope for TIP projects have not changed significantly from the plan.
Long Range Transportation Plan Conformity
The 2050 Mountainland MPO Plan as of June 1, 2023 was found to conform to state air
quality requirements as documented in MAG’s Air Quality Conformity analysis dated June
2023. FHWA and FTA had concurred with this analysis in their conformity finding
memorandum dated 10 July 2023. The submitted TIP contains projects that are
consistent with the 2050 MAG Plan, and are included in the regional emissions analysis.
Regional Significance
All regionally significant projects, regardless of funding source (federal, state, or local) are
included in the TIP and Plan. All regionally significant projects are also included in the
regional emissions analysis of the Plan.
Concept and Scope
The design concept and scope of all regionally significant projects in the TIP have not
changed significantly from the design and scope identified in the Plan. The TIP and Plan
were developed simultaneously and therefore projects that require conformity analysis
are derived from the new Plan.
In conclusion:
The FY 2024 MPO TIP conforms to the applicable controls and goals of the State
Implementation Plan for PM10 in Utah County. All projects in Utah County included in
the TIP may go forward.
The FY 2024 MPO TIP conforms to the applicable controls and goals of the State
Implementation Plan for PM2.5 in Utah County. All projects in Utah County included in
the TIP may go forward.
The FY 2024 MPO TIP conforms to the applicable EPA standards (Build less than 2017) for
Ozone in Utah County. All projects in Utah County included in the TIP may go forward.

The FY 2024 MPO TIP conforms to the applicable controls and goals required for Carbon
Monoxide in Provo City. All projects in Provo City included in the TIP may go forward.
The FY 2024 MPO TIP for Utah County meets the conditions of CFR 93.122(G)(1) and
therefore conforms to the State Implementation Plans for air quality for all
applicable non-attainment and maintenance areas and pollutants. Therefore, all
the transportation projects in Utah County included in this TIP may be found to
conform.
Contact Shauna Mecham with any questions
smecham@mountainland.org

