COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE No. 395
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 17, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CODE OF ORDINANCES, CONCERNING STORM WATER MANAGEMENT

WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”) for the City; and

WHEREAS, Code Title 17 (“Title 17°) details, inter alia, standards for storm water
management in the City; and

WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 4 April 2023 to consider, among
other things, amending Title 17 to adopt standards for long-term post-construction storm water
management and to make other technical changes to Title 17; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety, and welfare of its residents to so amend Title 17;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of
Cottonwood Heights as follows:

Section 1. Amendment of Title 17. The Council hereby amends Title 17 of the Code
as shown on the attached exhibit, which shows deletions to current Title 17 struck+throueh or
otherwise shown as deletions, and additions to current Title 17 underlined or otherwise shown as
additions. Minor changes to formatting, punctuation and the like may not be marked on the
attached exhibit.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’”),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any
reason, be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such
section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs,
clauses or provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. A\\ ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 395, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 4" day of April 2023.
ATTEST: »®44.4 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
b ELE Te z
eo &, i *
a 3704 *
4 fo Ie
By: aN ig ace ‘|B é
Paula Melga} , Recorders 4 4p ichael T. Weichers, Mayor
N05
BS are
Pp One
PP YEN VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea 4 Nay __
Douglas Petersen Yea * Nay
J. Scott Bracken Yea x Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea f Nay
Ellen Birrell Yea Nay
DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 4" day of April 2023.
pe
POSTED this 5 day of April 2023.
2

EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 395
Title 17
STORM DRAINAGE AND
FLOOD CONTROL DEVELOPMENT;
GROUNDWATER SOURCE PROTECTION
Chapters:
17.02 Administration
17.04 General Provisions
17.08 Drainage of Subsurface Water
17.12 City Drainage System
17.16 Private Construction of Public Facilities
17.18 Illicit Discharge and Connection
17.24 Detention Plans
17.25 Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plans
17.26 Erosion Control Plans
17.27 Storm Drainage Systems
17.28 Storm Water Facilities and Impact Fees
17.29 Post-Construction Storm Water Management
17.30 Groundwater Source Protection
17.32 Flood Damage Prevention
17.34 Violations and Penalties
17.04.070 Control of development excess waters.

A. The developer shall prevent the off-site discharge of the precipitation from all rainfall
events less than or equal to the 80 percentile rainfall event as per engineering standards
approved by the department.

B. Subject to the city’s regulatory and approval functions specified in this title, the owner or
developer of land to be improved or developed shall provide, at his own expense, the unit or
subdivision drainage system facilities within each development necessary for the control of
excess waters within the development. The developer also shall provide at his own expense:

1A. The intermediate and/or major drainage system facilities required to convey such excess
waters to a trunk line, natural tributary or final destination as may be indicated on the drainage
area map for the drainage area within which the development is located.

28. A detention facility, when determined applicable by the department, for the controlled
release of excess water into unit drainage facilities, intermediate and major drainage facilities,
trunk lines, natural tributaries or final destination. The maximum allowable release rate from
these detention facilities shall be no greater than .2 cubic feet per second per developed acre
outside of a sensitive lands overlay zone, and 0.1 cubic feet per second per developed acre within
a sensitive lands overlay zone.

3

17.18.070 Illicit discharges.

No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the city storm drain system or
watercourses any material other than storm water. Such prohibition includes pollutants and
waters containing pollutants that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality
standards.

A. The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to the storm drain
system is prohibited except as described as follows:

1. Water line flushing or other potable water sources;

2. Landscape irrigation or lawn watering;

3. Diverted stream flows;

4. Rising ground water;

5. Ground water infiltration to storm drains;

6. Uncontaminated pumped ground water;

7. Foundation or footing drains (not connected to floor drains);

8. Crawl space sump pumps;

9. Air conditioning condensation;

10. Springs;

11. Non-commercial washing of vehicles;

12. Natural riparian habitat or wetland flows;

13. Swimming pools (if de-chlorinated--typically less than one PPM chlorine);

14. Firefighting activities, and any other water source not containing pollutants; and

15. Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement agent as being necessary
to protect public health and safety;

16. Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration;

17. De-chlorinated reservoir water discharges;

18. Irrigation water; and

19. Residual street wash water.

B. Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires a verbal notification to the authorized
enforcement agent prior to the time of the test.

C. The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the discharger and
administered under the authority of the federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that
the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and
other applicable laws and regulations, and provided further that written approval has been
granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.

D. This prohibition includes:

1. Illicit connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible
under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of connection; and

2. Connections of sanitary sewer lines to the city’s storm drainage system.

17.25.010 Storm water pollution prevention plan required.

A. Anyone who constructs upon, or in any other way physically impacts, real property that is
one acre or greater in size within the city shall comply with the requirements of this title prior to
taking any action upon such property which may affect the detention, drainage, flow or water
quality of storm waters within the city.

B. All persons disturbing parcels greater than one acre five-acres-in size or part of a larger
common plan of development greater than one acre in size shall file a notice of intent with the
state to accompany the storm water pollution prevention plan. As set forth in this title, the storm

4

water pollution prevention plan may, as determined by the city, require specific actions and
consist of one or more components with respect to:

1. Drainage of subsurface waters;

2. Construction of storm water facilities;

3. Connection to existing storm water facilities:

4. Maintenance of storm water facilities;

5. Grading and erosion control; and

6. Water quality.

Chapter 17.29
POST-CONSTRUCTION STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
Sections:
17.29.010 Post-construction storm water management plan.
17.29.020 Maintenance.
17.29.030 Inspection and right-of-entry.
17.29.040 Enforcement and penalties.
17.29.010 Post-construction storm water management plan.

A. Before issuance of a permit for any new development or redevelopment project, a long-
term post-construction analysis and storm water management plan shall be prepared by a civil
engineer licensed in the state of Utah and submitted to the department for review and approval.

B. Although the type and scope of the plan will vary with the characteristics of each site, the
plan shall:

L. Be prepared in accordance with all applicable engineering standards;

2. Address the specific pollutants expected to be generated from the site: and

3. Include BMPs concerning the design, installation, operation and maintenance standards
necessary to protect water quality and reduce to permissible levels the discharge of pollutants in
storm water runoff from the fully-developed site.

C. Review and approval of the plan by the department is required before any permits may be
issued for the proposed project.

17.29.020 Maintenance.

A. The design and planning of all long-term post-construction storm water management
facilities required by an approved storm water_management plan shall include detailed
maintenance and repair procedures to ensure their continuous functionality. The storm water
management plan shall identify the parts or components of the facilities that need to be
maintained, the maintenance schedule, and the equipment and skills or training necessary.

B. The storm water management plan shall include provisions for the periodic review and
evaluation of the effectiveness of the maintenance program and the need for revisions or
additional maintenance procedures.

C. The permittee and the property owner from time to time shall be jointly and severally
responsible for maintenance of all facilities included in the approved storm water management
plan.

5

17.29.030_ Inspection and right-of-entry. |
appropriate bythe department. == sts—~—S -
C. The inspection and maintenance ce_requirements_under_an approved storm water
management plan may be increased as reasonably deemed necessary by the department to ensure
proper functioning of the subject facilities. = = a .
_ D. When any new long-term post-construction storm water management facility is installed
on private property, or when any new connection is made between private property and a public
drainage system facility, the property owner shall grant to the city the right to enter the property
shall include the right to enter a property when the department has a reasonable basis to believe
that:
3. Entry is necessary to correct a violation of this title.
17.29.040 Enforcement and penalties.
any of the provisions of this chapter, or to aid or cause the violation of any of said provisions.
B. Any development activity that is commenced or is conducted contrary to this chapter may_
be restrained by injunction or otherwise abated ina manner provided bylaw. SS
C._In addition to or as an alternative to any penalty provided in this title or by law, including
the enforcement procedures and penalties described in Chapter 17.34, violations of this chapter
shall at the city’s option be subject to the following additional procedures and penalties:
to the owner of the property. The notice of violation shall contain:
~~ (c) A statement specifying the nature of the violation; a
(c)_A statement of the penalty or penalties that shall or may be assessed against the person to |
- (f) A statement that the determination of violation may be appealed to the city by filing a |
written notice of appeal within 15 days after service of notice of violation. . |
2. Stop Work Orders. Persons receiving a notice of violation under this section shall |
|
activity is in compliance and the violation has been satisfactorily addressed. | |
~ 3. Restoration of Lands. Any violator may be required to restore land to its undisturbed |
condition. If restoration is not undertaken within a reasonable time after notice, the city may take |
necessary corrective action, the cost of which shall become a lien upon the property until paid. |
6 |

_ 4, Hold on Occupancy Permits. Occupancy permits will not be granted until correction of
all violations of this chapter have been made and accepted by the city.
herein or by law, anyone who violates this chapter shall be subject to the civil and criminal
‘separate offense for each day during which the violation occurs or continues.
7
