COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 394
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE PDD-2
ZONING ORDINANCE ENACTED UNDER ORDINANCE 363-A

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH
CODE ANN. §10-9a-101 ef seg., as amended (the “Acf”), provides that each municipality may
enact a land use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and
development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed
land use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission’s recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map; and

WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”) for the City; and

WHEREAS, on or about 3 August 2021 the Council enacted its Ordinance 363-A
(“Ordinance 363-A”) establishing zoning regulations for the City’s PDD-2 zone (the “PDD-2
Zone”) as authorized by the Act and the Code; and

WHEREAS, thereafter an authorized applicant requested the City to adopt certain
amendments (the “Amendment”) to Ordinance 363-A and the PDD-2 Zone created thereunder;
and

WHEREAS, a public hearing subsequently was held before the City’s planning
commission (the “Planning Commission’) where citizens were given the opportunity to provide
written or oral comment concerning the proposed Amendment; and

WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended the
Amendment to the Council for adoption; and

WHEREAS, the Council subsequently took additional public comment concerning the
Amendment; and

WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with the Amendment, a copy of
which is annexed as an exhibit to this ordinance, including any amendments proposed by the
Council to the form of the Amendment recommended for adoption by the Planning Commission,
as authorized by UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-502(2); and

WHEREAS, on 21 February 2022 the Council met in regular meeting to consider,
among other things, amending Ordinance 363-A and the PDD-2 Zone created thereunder to enact
the Amendment, including any such revisions; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings, and other relevant input,
the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City to adopt and enact the Amendment as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of
Cottonwood Heights as follows:

Section 1. Amendment of Ordinance 363-A_and PDD-2 Zone. The Council hereby
amends Section 3(G) of Ordinance 363-A and the PDD-2 Zone created thereunder as shown on
the attached exhibit, which shows deletions to current Section 3 of Ordinance 363-A struck
through or otherwise shown as deletions, and additions to current Section 3 of Ordinance 363-A
underlined or otherwise shown as additions. Minor changes to formatting, punctuation and the
like may not be marked on the attached exhibit.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’”’),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any
reason, be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such
section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs,
clauses or provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 394, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 21" day of February 2023.
ATTEST: » i444, COTTONWOODAMEYGHTS CITY COUNCIL
Lahey, Ne
Paula Melga ) ecorder'. 7, § ye] ichael T. Weichers, Mayor
AON YW 36509 Je)
‘Wa one
2

VOTING:

Michael T. Weichers Yea Y Nay _

Douglas Petersen Yea Nay.

J. Scott Bracken Yea ~% Nay

Shawn E. Newell Yeayé Nay.

Ellen Birrell Yea___ Nay ~
DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 21% day of February 2023.
POSTED this Z2day of February 2023.

3

EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 394
(Amendment to Section 3 of Ordinance 363-A)
Section 3. Approval of Development Plan; Phasing.

A. This ordinance constitutes the Council’s legislative approval of the PDD-2 zone and the
Development Plan, subject to any additional Council approvals required by this ordinance.

B. Construction of the Project improvements shown on the Development Plan may be
done in phases pursuant to a phasing plan reviewed and approved by the director of city’s
community and economic development department or designee (the “Director”).

C. This ordinance approves a residential condominium use in the Project, provided that
this ordinance does not constitute city approval of the final density and massing of the
condominium use but instead only represents entitlement for that land use in the general location
depicted in the Development Plan. Final building height, size, footprint, total unit count, parking,
and other details concerning the proposed condominium use shall be determined through an
amendment to this ordinance and the Development Plan reviewed and approved by the Council,
in its legislative discretion, following recommendation by the city’s planning commission
(“Planning Commission’), city’s planning department (“Department”) staff, city’s development
review committee (“DRC”), city’s architectural review commission (“ARC”), city’s geologist, or
other city-related individuals or advisory bodies in accordance with city’s requirements and
normal development review processes.

D. Site plans for each phase, subdivision plats, densities, building heights, massing, site
layout and uses shall conform to the requirements of the Code, this ordinance and the
Development Plan. Prior to development, each phase shall be reviewed and approved by the city
(including ARC review and approval of the site plan for that phase) to ensure compliance with
this ordinance, the Development Plan, Project-specific design guidelines, all relevant provisions
of the Code, and other relevant site plan requirements.

E. Approval of subdivision plats with fewer than ten lots may be approved
administratively by the Department subject to Code Title 12 (Subdivisions).

F. If substantial discrepancies are discovered during review of site plans or subdivision
plats, applications may be referred to the Planning Commission for final consideration or
recommendation to the Council, as appropriate.

G. Material changes to this ordinance or the Development Plan arising from a submittal;
the discovery of unanticipated geotechnical, geologic, or other site hazards; or for any other
reason shall require an amendment to this ordinance following review, recommendation and/or
approval by the DRC, ARC, Planning Commission and Council as specified in Code Chapter
19.51 (Planned Development District) (“Chapter 19.51”) and other Code provisions. For
purposes of this section, a change resulting in a decrease of less than ten percent (10%) of one or
more of the following is not considered a material change: unit count, density, building height, or
building footprint. Any such change is measured from the original approved PDD-2
Development Plan for the Project.

4
