COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 341
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AN AMENDED BUDGET
FOR THE PERIOD OF | JULY 2019 THROUGH 30 JUNE 2020

WHEREAS, the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities (the “Act”) provides,
among other things, that prior to adoption by a city’s governing body of a municipal budget, the
city’s mayor or other budget officer shall propose a tentative budget which shall be reviewed,
considered and tentatively adopted by the governing body in open meeting, whereupon (a) the
governing body shall establish the time and place of a public hearing to consider the adoption of
the tentative budget; (b) the tentative budget shall be a public record in the office of the city’s
recorder available for public inspection for a period of at least ten days prior to the adoption of a
final budget; (c) notice of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city, and on the Utah Public Notices Website, at least seven days prior to the
public hearing; and (d) the public hearing shall be held; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides that amendments to a city’s adopted budget may be
approved by resolution or ordinance following appropriate notice and a public hearing; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 327 (“Ordinance 327”) dated 18 June 2019,
the city council (the “Council”) of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a budget
for the City’s 2019-2020 fiscal year and set the real and personal property tax levy for realty and
personalty within the City; and

WHEREAS, the City’s budget officer heretofore has filed with the Council a proposed
amended budget (the “Amended Budget”) for the City’s current fiscal year; and

WHEREAS, the Amended Budget has been reviewed by the Council and a copy of the
Amended Budget has been available for public inspection in the office of the City’s recorder; and

WHEREAS, the time and place of a public hearing regarding adoption of the Amended
Budget were set for 7:00 p.m. on 16 June 2020 at 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights,
Utah; and

WHEREAS, notice of the public hearing concerning the Amended Budget was timely
published in the Deseret News and Salt Lake Tribune, on the Utah Public Notices Website
established under UTAH CODE ANN. §63F-1-701, on the home page of the City’s website, and
otherwise posted and published as required by statute; and

WHEREAS, the public hearing was held beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m. on 16 June
2020 at 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah to receive public comment on the
Amended Budget as set forth in the published notice; and

WHEREAS, at the public hearing, all interested persons were given an opportunity to be
heard; and

WHEREAS, on 16 June 2020, the Council met in regular session to consider, among other

things, approving the Amended Budget as proposed; and

WHEREAS, it is the intent and desire of the Council to comply with all applicable laws

regarding adoption of the Amended Budget and ratification of the property tax rate and the levying
of property taxes as provided in Ordinance 327; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council finds that it has satisfied all legal
requirements to adopt the Amended Budget and to ratify the tax rate and levy property taxes as
provided in Ordinance 327, and that it is in the best interests of the citizens of the City to adopt the
Amended Budget presented at the 16 June 2020 public hearing as the amended final budget for the
City for the period in question, and to ratify the rate of property tax and to levy taxes upon all real
and personal property within the City as provided in Ordinance 327;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Cottonwood Heights city council as
follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amended Budget.

A. The Amended Budget presented at the 16 June 2020 public hearing (as
heretofore modified by the Budget Officer under Council direction, including the amendments
specified on any exhibits that are attached to this Ordinance) be, and hereby is, appropriated for
the corporate purposes and objects of the City for the fiscal year in question, and hereby is adopted
as the City’s final budget for the period of 1 July 2019 through 30 June 2020, subject to
amendment.

B. A copy of the Amended Budget adopted hereby shall be certified and filed
with the Utah State Auditor, as appropriate, and shall be available for public inspection during
regular business hours at the City’s business offices.

C. The City’s manager and other officers are hereby directed to take any other
necessary actions pertinent to the adoption of the Amended Budget, including, without limitation,
such notification, reporting and publishing as may be required by applicable law.

D. Amounts in excess of the City’s cash requirements shall be deposited in the
investment fund maintained by the state treasurer under the State Money Management Act, UTAH
CODE ANN. §51-7-1 et seq.

Section 2. Property Tax Rate and Levy. Section 2 of Ordinance 327 is hereby ratified,
affirmed and incorporated herein by this reference.

Section 3. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 4. Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or

a

provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 5. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 6. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 341, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 16" day of June 2020.

COTTONWOOD HEIG CITY COUNCIL
77]
By: 7
Michael J. PeteySpn, Mayor
OOD La
ATTEST: ly &;
LY\ AL V\ { o. ,
Paula Melga ; Recorder Ohare
VOTING:
Michael J. Peterson Yea 4 Nay __
Douglas Petersen “Yea Nay _
J. Scott Bracken “Yea “Nay __
Tali C. Bruce Yea ~~ Nay___
Christine Watson Mikell - YegAUeriaxe aat—
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 16 day of June 2020.
POSTED this \ (day of June 2020.
3
