COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS |
ORDINANCE NO. 372
AN ORDINANCE GRANTING A TELECOMMUNICATIONS
SYSTEM FRANCHISE TO FIRSTDIGITAL TELECOM, LLC
WHEREAS, FirstDigital Telecom, LLC, on behalf of itself and its operating affiliates
(“Provider”), desires to provide certain telecommunication services within the city of Cottonwood
Heights (“City”) and in connection therewith to establish a fiber-optic cable telecommunications
network in, under, along, over and across present and future public roads, streets, alleys and other
rights-of-way (the “Public Way’) within City’s corporate limits (“City Limits’); and
WHEREAS, City’s governing body (the “City Council’) met in regular session on 14
December 2021 to consider, among other things, adopting an ordinance granting a non-exclusive
franchise to operate such a telecommunications network within City Limits; and
WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the City Council, in the exercise of City’s police
power, ownership, or use rights in, to, over and under the public roads, streets, alleys and public
places within City Limits and pursuant to its other regulatory authority, believes it to be in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of City’s residents to grant to Provider a non-exclusive
franchise to operate a network for voice and/or data transmission services within City Limits;
NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the city council of the city of Cottonwood Heights
as follows:
Section I. Grant of Franchise. City hereby grants to Provider a non-exclusive right,
privilege and franchise (the “Franchise”) to construct, maintain and operate in the present and
future Public Way within City Limits a fiber-optic cable telecommunications system (the
“Facilities”) to supply competitive local exchange, such as voice and data communications
. services, internet access, private line service, cell site front-haul and back-haul capacity using
fiber-optic cables, and leasing of conduit and dark fiber to third parties. The Facilities may be
deployed to businesses and government entities to provide local exchange, internet access and data
transport services. The Facilities may also be deployed to cell sites owned by Provider, its affiliates
and third party providers, each of whom City shall require to continuously hold separate franchises
or license agreements from City. All Facilities and related cell sites shall be located and operated
in full compliance with all applicable law, including, without limitation, Chapters 14.28 and 19.83
of the COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES (the “Code”), The Facilities will not include
any wireless equipment and will not be deployed by Provider to provide cable service as such term
is defined in 47 USC § 522(6). Further, the Franchise does not authorize Provider to utilize any
City-owned buildings, poles or other structures to hold or support any Facilities unless separately
agreed by City and Provider.
Although the Franchise does not grant to Provider the right, privilege or authority to engage in
residential cable TV video service or personal wireless service, nothing contained herein shall
preclude Provider from (a) permitting those with an appropriate franchise who are lawfully
engaged in such business to utilize the Facilities for such purposes, or (b) providing such service

in the future if an appropriate franchise is obtained and all other legal requirements have been |
satisfied. ;
To induce City to grant the Franchise on the terms and conditions of this ordinance (this
“Ordinance’’), Provider hereby irrevocably represents, warrants and certifies to City that:
(x) Provider will not provide “wireless services” or act as a “wireless
service provider” except pursuant to a separate franchise or license agreement with City, and
(y) except for any of the Facilities which are coaxial or fiber-optic cable
that is immediately adjacent to or directly associated with a particular “collocation” which is
owned and/or operated by a “wireless services provider,” none of the Facilities are or will be any
type of “small wireless facility” or a “utility pole,”
for purposes of the “Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act” codified as UTAH CODE ANN. 54-
21-101 et seg. effective 1 September 2018, as the same hereafter may be amended (the “Small Cell
Act’). The terms “wireless services,” “wireless service provider,” “collocation,” “small wireless
facility” and “utility pole” as used above are all as defined in the Small Cell Act. Provider’s
watranty that it will not provide “wireless services” or act as a “wireless service provider,” coupled
with the limited practical impact of the Small Cell Act on “small wireless facilities” which are
limited to such coaxial or fiber-optic cable owned or operated by someone other than a “wireless
services provider,” cause Provider to hereby acknowledge and agree that this Ordinance is not,
and will not become, invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN.
54-21-602.

Section 2. Acceptance. If Provider desires to accept the Franchise, then within 60 days
after the date of this Ordinance Provider shall file with City an unqualified written acceptance of
the Franchise declaring its acceptance of the Franchise and its intention to be bound by its terms
and conditions. In its written acceptance, Provider shall designate a representative authorized by
Provider to receive and respond to issues and inquiries by City in connection with the Franchise.
Provider may designate a new representative from time to time upon written notice to City.

Section 3. Term. The Franchise is granted for a term of ten years, commencing with
the date on which it is accepted. Thereafter, the Franchise will continue in effect, in the absence of
an express written objection by either party, from year-to-year in accordance with the terms of this
Ordinance. Either party may request good-faith renegotiation of the Franchise upon written notice
to the other given at least 120 days before the end of the initial term or any annual renewal period.

Section 4. Regulatory Authority. Provider’s use and enjoyment of the Franchise shall ,
be subject to and in compliance with all applicable federal, state and City laws, rules and
regulations, including, without limitation, Chapter 14.28 and Chapter 19.83 of the Code. City
reserves the right to amend the Code and to adopt such additional ordinances and regulations, or
amendments thereto, as may be deemed necessary or advisable in the exercise of its police power
for the protection of the health, safety and welfare of its citizens and their properties or the exercise
of any other rights, powers or duties required or permitted under the Constitution of the United
States, the Constitution of the State of Utah, the laws of the United States, the laws of the State of
Utah, or City’s ordinances,

2

Section 5. Construction and Maintenance of Facilities.

(a) No Interference. All Facilities shall be constructed so as to interfere as little
as reasonably possible with traffic on, and other public and City-authorized uses of, the Public
Way.

(b) Compliance with Laws. All Facilities shall be constructed in accordance
with all applicable laws and established construction practices, and all Facilities that are installed
as new or relocated Facilities during the term of the Franchise shall be sited (to the greatest extent
reasonably possible without unreasonable additional cost to Provider) to be visually unobtrusive.
Stealth Facilities are favored. Provider shall comply with all ordinances and regulations that are or
may be prescribed by City with respect to the construction, maintenance and operations of all
Facilities, including obtaining necessary building permits (which shall not be unreasonably
withheld, conditioned or delayed), so long as such ordinances or regulations do not conflict with
or prejudice Provider’s rights under applicable law, this Ordinance, or the requirements of any
other governmental bodies having jurisdiction over Provider. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
however, Provider shall not be required to obtain a permit before performing emergency repairs.

(c) Undergrounding. Provider shall place newly constructed or relocated
Facilities underground unless (i) it is not feasible to go underground at the time; (ii) overhead lines
can be placed on already-existing poles; and (iii) Provider agrees to move it facilities underground
when City directs so long as City, at the same time, directs other franchisees with overhead
facilities in the same location to move their facilities underground.

(d) Removal. From and after any termination of the Franchise, Provider shall
be (i) entitled to remove from the Public Way any or all of its Facilities; and (ii) obligated to
remove from the Public Way any or all of its Facilities which would interfere with a public project
planned and approved within three years after the date of such termination for the protection of the
health, safety or welfare of City’s residents or for another legitimate, permitted governmental
purpose, Any such removal shall be at Provider’s sole cost or otherwise at no cost to City, and,
upon any such removal, Provider shall be obligated promptly to restore the Public Way affected
by such removal to as near as reasonably practicable their same condition as immediately prior to
such removal.

(ec) Damage. If Provider causes damage to or alters any of the Public Way or
any improvements (including, without limitation, wires, conduits, or other facilities owned by
other franchisees of City), Provider shall at its own cost and expense and in a manner approved by
City replace and restore such property to the same condition as existed before such damage
occurred, excepting normal, reasonable wear and tear.

(f) City Notice. If required by applicable Utah law, before commencing any
street improvements or other work within the Public Ways that may affect the Facilities, City shall
notify Provider and give Provider a reasonable amount of time to mark and if necessary protect its
Facilities.

Section 6. Annexation. Upon the annexation of any territory to City, the rights and
obligations hereunder shall extend to the annexed territory to the extent City has such authority.
3

All Facilities owned, maintained or operated by Provider located within any public ways of the
annexed territory shall thereafter be subject to all of the terms hereof. When any territory is
approved for annexation to City, City shall endeavor to promptly notify Provider of such
annexation and, in any event, shall provide to Provider, within ten business days after Provider’s
request, a copy of City’s ordinance approving such annexation and a legal description of the
annexation area. ,

Section 7. Excavations. Provider shall have the right to excavate the Public Way in
accordance with City ordinance and other reasonable requirements. Before installing or relocating
underground Facilities, Provider shall notify City as soon as reasonably possible (but in no event
less than 30 days except in the case of a reasonably unforeseeable emergency) in advance of such
work and shall allow City, at its own expense, to share the trench of Provider to lay its own conduit
therein, provided that such action by City shall not unreasonably interfere with Provider’s
Facilities or materially delay completion, nor shall such notice be required in emergency situations.
Provider shall maintain on deposit with City throughout the term of the Franchise a cash deposit,
irrevocable letter of credit, or self-bond in the initial amount of $10,000 to guaranty Provider’s
faithful performance of Provider’s obligations under Chapter 14.16 of the Code.

Section 8. Vegetation Management. Provider may at its sole cost prune, or cause to
be pruned, all trees, bushes and other vegetation (collectively, “Trees”) which overhang the Public
Ways, whether such Trees originate within or without the Public Ways, in such a manner and to
such an extent as will prevent the branches, limbs or other parts of such Trees from touching or
interfering with its Facilities, so long as such Trees are not pruned further than may be reasonably
necessary to prevent such interference and to allow the proper operation and maintenance of such
Facilities for the reasonably foreseeable future. Such pruning shall be performed in accordance
with Provider standards and the American National Standard for Tree Care Operations (ANSI
A300) (““ANS?’); provided, however, that if, at any time during the term of the Franchise, ANSI
ceases to be published or ceases to be the standard for arboriculture techniques, then City
reasonably may designate (in consultation with Provider) a substitute standard upon written notice
to Provider. Provider shall use reasonable efforts to notify owners of property on which the Trees
to be pruned are located at least 72 hours prior to doing the work. A growth inhibitor treatment
may be used for trees and vegetation species that are fast-growing and problematic. Nothing
contained in this section shall prevent Provider, when necessary and with the approval of the owner
of the property on which they may be located, from cutting down and removing any Trees which
overhang the Public Ways, whether such Trees originate within or without the Public Ways.

Section 9, Annual Plan; Coordination.

(a) Annual Plan. Upon request by either City or Provider not more often than
once each calendar year, Provider and City shall meet for the purpose of exchanging information
and documents regarding construction and other similar work within City Limits, with a view
towards coordinating their respective activities in those areas where such coordination may prove
mutually beneficial. Any information regarding future capital improvements that may involve land
acquisition shall be treated with confidentiality upon request.

(b) Coordination. In order to prevent and/or minimize the number of cuts to
and excavations within the Public Ways, Provider shall coordinate with City and other authorized

4

users of the Public Ways concerning when such cuts or excavations will occur. When possible,
installation, repairs or maintenance of Facilities within the Public Ways shall be made in the same :
trench and at the same time as other installations, repairs or maintenance of facilities are conducted
within the Public Way. City will endeavor to give Provider a schedule of street repairs in advance
of City work, provided that such schedule will be subject to change based on, among other things,
available funding. ,

Section 10. Relocation. City reserves the right (exercisable from time to time or at any

time upon written notice to Provider) to require the relocation, removal or reinstallation
(collectively, “Relocation”) of any of Provider’s Facilities located in, on, along, over, across,
through, or under any street, road, alley or other Public Ways or any real property owned by City
within City Limits, and installed or maintained pursuant to the Franchise and not an enforceable
right-of-way or easement. Within a reasonable time after Provider’s receipt of such written notice,
Provider shall effect such Relocation of its Facilities as may be reasonably necessary to meet City’s
requirements,
Relocation of Facilities by Provider shall be at no cost to City if such request is for the protection
of the public health, safety and welfare (which includes, without limitation, the placement,
widening or realignment of streets; the placement or realignment of curb, gutter and/or sidewalks;
the creation of a public park or plaza; or the placement, relocation, etc. of traffic signals, street
lighting or the like). If City requires Relocation of any Facilities, the parties shall cooperatively
work together to identify a reasonable realignment of the relocated Facilities, and Provider
thereafter may maintain and operate such Facilities (and any necessary appurtenances) in a new
location within City Limits without additional payment if the new location is a Public Way.
Further, if a City project is funded by federal or state monies that specifically includes an amount
allocated to defray the expenses of Relocation of Facilities, then City shall compensate Provider
up to the extent of such specified amount for any reasonable Relocation costs mandated by the
project to the extent that City actually receives such federal or state funds. In addition, the City
shall bear the cost of relocation of facilities by Provider to the extent such request for relocation
or disconnection is for purely aesthetic purposes or to benefit a third party.

Section 11]. Public Use Rights. City shall have the right, without cost, to use all poles
and other structures owned by Provider and located in City’s Public Ways for fire alarms, police
signal systems, emergency communication systems, and any other lawful public use, provided
that: (a) any such uses by City shall be for activities owned, operated or used by City for public
purposes and shall not include the provision of telecommunication services to third parties; (b)
such use by City shall not require Provider to alter the manner in which Provider operates and
maintains its Facilities; (c) any City attachments shall be installed and maintained in accordance
with Provider’s reasonable requirements and the requirements of the then current National Electric
Safety Code; (d) any City attachments shall be installed only pursuant to Provider’s prior written
approval, which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; and (e) City shall
repair and maintain all City attachments at its sole cost.

Section 12. Indemnification. City shall not, in any way or for any purpose, be liable
or responsible for any loss or damage to property or any injury to, or death of, any person that may
occur as a result of the construction, maintenance or operation of the Facilities or Provider’s other
activities within City Limits pursuant to the Franchise. Provider shail indemnify, defend and hold

5 .

City harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, liens, liabilities, damages, actions ;
and proceedings of whatsoever type(s) on account of, in connection with, or arising from the grant
of the Franchise, from the exercise of Provider of its related rights, or from Provider’s operations
within City Limits, and shall pay the cost of defense plus City’s reasonable attorneys’ fees.
Provider’s obligation to so defend, indemnify and hold City harmless shall include, without
limitation, any such claims, etc. arising from Provider’s negligent acts or omissions pursuant to
the exercise of the Franchise (including, for example, the construction, operation and/or
maintenance of the Facilities), whether or not any such use, act or omission complained of is
authorized, allowed or prohibited by the Franchise. Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the
contrary, however, Provider shall not be obligated to indemnify, defend or hold City harmless to
the extent that any underlying claim, demand or lien arises out of or in connection with any
negligent act or omission of City or any of its officers, agents or employees.

Except as provided above, neither party shall be liable to the other party for any special,
consequential or indirect damages (including, by way of illustration, lost revenues and lost profits)
arising out of its obligations under this Ordinance, whether in action for or arising out of an asserted
breach of contract, tort or otherwise. Further, neither party shall be liable to the extent such claims
are caused by the intentional conduct or negligent acts or omissions of the other party.

Section 13. Insurance. Provider shall maintain in full force during the entire term of
the Franchise commercial general liability insurance in an amount or not less than $2 Million per
occurrence insuring against claims for bodily injury, death or property damage occurring as a result
of the construction, maintenance or operation of the Facilities or Provider’s other activities within
City Limits pursuant to the Franchise. Provider may elect to assume such liabilities and risk of loss
through deductibles and/or a qualified self-insurance program.

Section 14. Assignment of Franchise. Provider shall not transfer, assign or delegate
any of its rights or obligations under the Franchise to another entity without City’s prior written
approval, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed; provided, however, that
inclusion of the Franchise as an asset of Provider subject to the liens and mortgages of Provider
shall not constitute a transfer or assignment requiring City’s prior written consent. Provider’s
assignment of its rights and delegation of its duties under the Franchise to Provider’s parent,
subsidiary, successor or affiliate (collectively, a “Related Entity”) shall be effective upon written
notice to City and shall not require City’s prior written consent provided that such Related Entity
(a) is under common ownership and control with Provider, and (b) is at least as creditworthy and
financially viable as Provider.

Section 15. Effect of Invalidity. If any portion of this Ordinance is for any reason held
illegal, invalid, or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not
affect the validity of any remaining portions of this Ordinance.

Section 16. Termination. City may terminate the Franchise if (a) Provider violates a
material duty under this Ordinance and fails to cure such violation within 60 days after receiving
City’s written notice specifying such violation and the acceptable methods for curing such
violation; or (b) Provider becomes insolvent, unable or unwilling to pay its debts when due, is
adjudged bankrupt, or part or all of its Facilities within the Public Ways are sold under an
instrument to secure a debt and are not redeemed by Provider within 60 days. Termination of the

6

Franchise is in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other rights or remedies available to City upon
Provider’s default hereunder. Notwithstanding anything contained in this Franchise to the contrary,
Provider shall not be held in default under or in non-compliance with the provisions of this
Franchise, nor suffer any enforcement or penalty relating thereto, for any such non-compliance or
alleged defaults that are caused by strikes, acts of God, power outages, or other events reasonably
beyond its ability to control.

Section 17. Public Way Rate; Reservation of Right.

(a) Public Way Rate. Provider shall pay to City an annual amount equal to three
and one-half percent (3.5%) of Provider’s gross revenues related to its use of the Public Way to
the extent that any of the Facilities constitute small wireless facilities for purposes of the Small
Cell Act.

(b) Reservation of Right. Nothing in this Ordinance shall affect City’s right,
under the “Municipal Telecommunications License Tax Act” (UTAH CODE ANN. §10-1-401 et
seq.) or any other applicable law then in effect, at any time hereafter to prospectively impose upon,
charge or collect from Provider any municipal telecommunications license tax on Provider’s gross
receipts from telecommunications service that are attributed to City or this Franchise under such
act or any other rate, fee or compensation for the right to use or occupy City’s public right of way,
and/or City poles, structures or other facilities therein or thereon, which may be imposed by City
under applicable state law so long as such compensation is charged on a uniform, non-
discriminatory basis to all similar providers.

Section 18. Notices. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices to City hereunder
shall be delivered to the City Recorder’s office, and all notices to Provider hereunder shall be
delivered to FirstDigital Telecom, LLC, 357 South 670 West, Ste. 300, Lindon, UT 84042, or such
other address as Provider may specify in written notice to City.

Section 19. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held
or found to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, clauses or provisions of this Ordinance.

This Ordinance, assigned no. 372, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 14" day of December 2021.

ATTEST: COTTONWGOD H ATS CITY COUNCIL
Paula Melgar, Recordeg: a £4 Sa) /pMichael J. P¥éterson, Mayor
O\ 2005 7 fib

VOTING:

Michael J. Peterson Yea J. Nay __

Douglas Petersen ‘Yea / Nay

J. Scott Bracken ‘Yea ea Nay

Tali C. Bruce Yea Kg Seant— ChOuceD ,

Christine Watson Mikell Yea _¥ Nay
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 14" day of December 2021.
POSTED this {5 day of December 2021.

8
