COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE No. 355
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 19.51.060 OF THE
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
REGARDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN THE PDD ZONE
WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE.
ANN. §10-9a-101 ef seg., as amended (the “Ac?”), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare and
recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land use
ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning commission’s
recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and
WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative body
to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the City; and
WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the legislative body (the “Council’) of the city of Cottonwood
Heights (the “City”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City’s code of ordinances (the “Code”); and
WHEREAS, thereafter, the City’s planning commission (the “Planning Commission’)
formulated proposed amendments (the “Amendments’) to Section 19.51.060 of the Code concerning
the provision of “below market rate” housing in the City’s PDD zone; and
WHEREAS, a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission where citizens were
given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed Amendments; and
WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and
WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended the
Amendments to the Council for adoption; and
WHEREAS, the Council subsequently took additional public comment concerning the
Amendments; and
WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with the Amendments, a copy of which
is annexed as an exhibit to this ordinance, including any amendments proposed by the Council to the
form of the Amendments recommended for adoption by the Planning Commission, as authorized by
UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-502(2); and
WHEREAS, on 16 February 2021, the Council met in regular meeting to consider, among
other things, amending the Code to enact the Amendments, including any such revisions; and
WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings, and other relevant input, the

Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the City to adopt and enact the Amendments as proposed;

| NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

| Section 1. Adoption of Amendments. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendments in the form of the attached exhibit, wherein deletions to the current ordinance are struck

through and additions to the current ordinance are underlined.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”), whether
taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are severable,
and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to
be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause
or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 344, shall take immediate effect
as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office
of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 6" day of October 2020.

ATTEST: bly SOTTON D HEJGHYS CITY COUNCIL
7 OOD Hey
(agli
- £8 , vc ih
By: nos , ase: BYE | | /
Paula M ge r, Recorde £28 - Michael J. Petérson, Mayor
o> 2005 7
;  PORaTE oy
VV VOTING:
Michael J. Peterson Yea Vv Nay___
Douglas Peterson vfea Vv Nay
J. Scott Bracken Yea — Nay___
Tali C. Bruce “Tea “Nay
Christine Watson Mikell Yea ~Nay_
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 16" day of February 2021.
POSTED this (} day of February 2021.
2

EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 355
19.51.060 Site development regulations.

A. Base Regulations. The following table, designated “Table 1: Site Development Regulations
— Planned Development Districts” (“Table 1”), sets forth the base site development regulations for
the PDD, which are in addition to any further development regulations set forth in the PDZ ordinance

for a property. Letter designations in the “Additional Regulations” column of Table 1 refer to the
additional regulations that follow Table 1 in this section. The intent of these regulations is to promote

vertical and horizontal mixed use development in a pedestrian—oriented environment.
Table 1: Site Development Regulations — Planned Development Districts
Regulations
Area Requirement 10 3 1* (B)(1)
(in contiguous
acres
|BuildingHeight |
ougnegeay | | em | SM |
Bldg. Height (ft.)
Maximum Varies from 50’- 50° 35°* (B)(3)
Bldg. Height 300° from
(ft.) Wasatch Blvd.
elevation
Table 1: Site Development Regulations — Planned Development Districts
Regulations
(ft.
a
a
Side (Residential) 50° from adjacent | Same as adjacent Same as
residential residential zone adjacent
properties outside residential zone
project area
Side
(Nonresidential)
Rear (Residential) 50’ from adjacent | Same as adjacent Same as
residential residential zone adjacent
properties outside residential zone
project area
3

| Rear
(Nonresidential)

Access

‘ oe
Transparency

area area area

Landscape | BB)
Off-Street Parking The development plan may require the provision of a
and Loading minimum number of on-site parking and loading (B)(9)

spaces.

/Parkingsetback |
Circulation
Below Market Rate | 10% of total 10% of total of total

| (BMR)/ Senior! residential for residential for residential for (B)(12)
Disabled Housing projects with 50 | projects with 25 | projects with
or more units or more units 25 or more
units

Standards
Residential Density Based on 35 dwelling 20 dwelling
- Dwelling Units / IBC/IRC units/acre units/acre
Acre Occupancy

B. Additional regulations.

1. Area requirement. An application for a PD zone may be submitted and approved only for a
site containing the specified minimum acreage; provided, however, that the area requirement in Tier
3 may be reduced on a case-by-case basis if approved by the city council following recommendation
by the planning commission.

2. Lot coverage.

(a) The following areas are to be included for the purpose of computing lot coverage:

(i) All buildings, including dwellings; and

(ii) All accessory structures, including sheds, garages, pool structures, carports, decks, roof
overhangs exceeding 20”, platform walkways and similar structures.

(b) The following areas are to be excluded for the purpose of computing lot coverage:

(i) Existing grade level walkways and driveways; and

(ii) Retaining walls and fences.

3. Maximum building height.

(a) The maximum building height in any Tier 1 PD zone will be determined by the setback of the
building from the public right of way for Wasatch Boulevard, and will be the height measurement in
feet for that setback shown in the following table:

4

Wasatch Blvd. | (ft.
*Measured from the average grade elevation of Wasatch Boulevard.

(b) The maximum building height in any Tier 2 PD zone is 50 feet if the first two stories
(beginning at the street level) are commercial and/or office uses. The maximum building height is
reduced to 35 feet for any building that either does not have commercial/office uses on the first two
stories or is located within 50 feet of a single-family zoning district.

(c) The maximum building height in any Tier 3 PD zone is 35 feet if the first story (at street level)
is acommercial and/or office use. The maximum building height is reduced to 30 feet for any building
that is located within 50 feet of a single-family zoning district. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
however, the building height in a Tier 3 PD zone may exceed 35 feet, to a maximum of 50 feet, if so
specified in the PDZ ordinance, so long as the proposed building will contain commercial/office uses
on the first two stories, is adjacent to a more intensive development, and is not located within 50 feet
of a single-family zoning district.

(d) Building height shail not exceed the corresponding building height for each tier in the table
measured from the grade plane as defined in the city’s building code (the “building code’). Parapet
walls, rooftop penthouses, landscaping and vegetative amenities and other similar architectural
features may extend above the maximum building height provided they contribute to the overall
architectural character of the building as determined by the city’s architectural review commission
(“ARC”) and contain only mechanical or other apparatus necessary for the operation of the building.

4. Setbacks.

(a) Setbacks from the public right of way shall be determined by the site plan approved as part of
the PDZ ordinance for a site. Typically, setbacks shall be measured from one foot behind the public
sidewalk or, if no sidewalk exists, one foot behind the top of curb. Other setbacks shall be measured
from the property line of the adjoining tract. There shall be no setbacks for buildings from internal
lot lines within the PDD unless required by the building code or Table 1.

(b) Fifty percent (50%) of ground floor building facades shall be located at the setback line when
the building fronts on an arterial or collector street. If authorized in the PDZ ordinance, permanent
shade structures such as canopies and arcades may encroach up to ten feet within the setback area
when abutting an arterial or collector street, so long as a vertical clearance of at least ten feet above
finished grade is maintained.

(c) Outdoor dining areas adjacent to public streets shall provide a minimum of six feet of
unobstructed pedestrian circulation, or such greater distance as may be specified in the PDZ
ordinance.

(d) Building street facades above the street level may not encroach into the setback area more
than ten feet.

5. Storefronts and access (retail and commercial areas). A minimum of 50% of the height and
width of the ground floor frontage of principal buildings shall consist of windows, window displays,
doors, or a combination thereof. In Tier 1 areas, this requirement will be defined in the approved site
plan and project design guidelines manual.

6. Transparency (retail and commercial areas).

5

(a) On the ground floor, view windows, window displays, or doors shall be provided between two
and eight feet above grade adjacent to the principal building frontage.

(b) A minimum of 25% of a building’s upper floor (above the ground floor) elevations along

streets shall have view windows with non-reflective glass.

(c) In Tier 1 areas, the transparency requirements shall be defined in the approved site plan and
project design guidelines manual.

7. Open space. Open space shall be provided in the form of natural areas meriting preservation,
landscaping, pedestrian plazas, atriums and other significant spaces open to the public. Vehicular
circulation and parking areas shall not qualify as open space but are required to meet parking and
landscaping requirements. At least 75% of required open space must be ground level in Tier 1 areas.

8. Landscaping. Prior to the use or occupancy of any premises in a PD zone, the following
landscaping requirements must be met:

(a) Provide a total landscaped area equal to at least 25% of the gross land area in that PD zone.
The landscaped area may be provided at the ground level or on upper level balconies, decks or roofs
(such as with permanently affixed planter boxes), or any combination thereof. At least 60% of the
landscaped area shall be vegetated.

(b) Provide a ground level landscaped area equal to at least 15% of the gross land area in that PD
zone.

(c) For landscaped areas designed as buffers, setbacks or visual backdrops, 40% of the area shall
be vegetated with a combination of groundcover, vines, shrubs, and trees. These areas must be at least
eight feet wide.

(d) For large paved pedestrian spaces such as courtyards or plazas, a 12-foot tall/two inch caliper
conifer, or a 15-gallon/eight-foot tall deciduous tree, shall be required for every 200 square feet of
paved area. A 50% reduction in the number of trees may be permitted if at least 25% of the ground
plane is vegetated with potted plants, vines, shrubs, or groundcover.

9. Parking.

(a) The minimum off-street parking requirement shall be specified in a parking plan approved as
part of the PDZ ordinance using the standards of Chapter 19.80 (Off-Street Parking Requirements) of
this code as a guide.

(b) The potential for shared use of on-site parking shall constitute an additional standard for
possible reduction of required parking, subject to the standards of Section 19.80.110 of this code and
a compelling demonstration that there will be adequate parking available for all uses.

(c) In Tier 1 areas, twenty-five percent of all required parking shall be structured parking. 50%
of all required parking shall be integrated within buildings behind active uses or appropriately
screened from sensitive views from any public street, residential property or public pedestrian way.

(d) Parking setback shall be determined by the site plan approved by the PDZ ordinance.

(e) Street level, surface parking shall be located behind or adjacent to buildings or screened by a
minimum ten foot tall landscaped berm.

(f) Minimum parking lot setbacks are as follows:

(i) Wasatch Boulevard lot lines: 20 feet or as specified in the PDZ ordinance.

(ii) Fort Union Boulevard lot lines: 30 feet.

(iii) Highland Drive lot lines: 30 feet.

(iv) Abutting land used for single family residential: 20 feet.

(v) AU other property lines: 8 feet.

(g) Where a nonresidential use in a proposed PD zone cannot provide all the required parking
spaces on-site, off-site parking may be approved as part of the PDZ ordinance subject to revocation
of such approval if the use of the site materially changes and further subject to the following additional
requirements:

(i) The off-site parking spaces shall be located within 600 feet of the use;

6

(ii) The off-site parking spaces shall be improved to the standards set forth in this code; and

(iii) The applicant shall provide recorded, legally effective and perpetual cross-easements for
parking or evidence provided of adequate public parking.

10. Pedestrian Circulation. Each PD zone shall comply with the following pedestrian circulation
regulations:

(a) Sidewalks and pedestrian walkways shall be provided in accordance with a submitted
pedestrian circulation plan approved as part of the PDZ ordinance.

(b) Minimum requirements for public sidewalks in a PD zone include:

(i) Continuous sidewalks with a minimum width of six feet shall be located along both sides of
collector and arterial public streets and both sides of internal private street(s). Sidewalks along Fort

| Union Boulevard and Wasatch Blvd shall have a minimum width of eight feet.

(ii) Sidewalk(s) along the private street(s) shall be located within a public pedestrian easement to
be shown on the final plat granting access to the public.

(c) Minimum requirements for private pedestrian walkways in a PD zone include:

(i) Hard surfaced with a minimum width of five feet or such greater width as may be required by
this section;

(ii) Readily visible and free of encroachment by parked vehicles;

(iii) Paved with concrete or other masonry products differentiated from the driveway and parking
areas through the use of color, texture, or materials;

(iv) Predominantly shaded with deciduous shade trees spaced at one per 30 linear feet of walkway
or building canopies; and

(v) Lighted with pedestrian-scaled fixtures.

(d) A pedestrian walkway shall connect a building entrance to the private or public street
sidewalk.

(e) If parking is located between the street and the building, at least one walkway shall be
provided to and through its associated parking area to connect a building entrance to a public street
sidewalk.

(f) In order to create a safe pedestrian environment, multifamily residential buildings shall be
placed and sited so that all required internal sidewalks are in view of at least one unit’s living area
windows.

(g) Internal sidewalks parallel and adjacent to a street or drive aisle shall be raised or separated
from the street or drive aisle by a raised curb, landscaping or other physical barrier. If a raised internal
sidewalk is used, the ends of the raised portions must be equipped with curb ramps.

(h) When adjacent to perpendicular, head-in, or diagonal parking, a pedestrian walk must be
increased in width to a minimum of seven feet when parking is located on one side, and a minimum
of nine feet when parking is located on both sides.

(i) Minimum requirements for public plazas include:

(ii) Publicly-accessible plazas shall be located as shown on the approved site plan.

(iii) Each plaza shall include a decorative paving pattern.

(iv) Each plaza of up to 500 square feet in area shall include at least two benches, two shade trees
and four bicycle parking spaces. An additional two benches, two shade trees and four bicycle parking
spaces shall be provided for each additional increment of 500 square feet of plaza area, prorated for
additional area of less than 500 square feet.

11. Signage.

(a) A master sign program shall be submitted as part of the application for a PD zone that details
each type, material, color and location of each requested sign.

(b) Permitted signage shall be as specified in the PDZ ordinance, provided that OPEDS (as
defined in Chapter 19.82) are not permitted. All permitted signs shall comply with all city
development requirements in Chapter 19.82 (Signs). The size, location, appearance, and method of

7

operation of signage in a PD zone may be specified in the PDZ ordinance to the extent necessary to
insure compliance with the purpose of this chapter.

+2--Below-marketrate/senior/ disabled housing requirement AH PD vone-ordinances-shall require 0 <3 aters ie disabled : Sin 2-FECHHEEME oT PD--one- ia GeS-SRA SCHite
erdinanee-12. Below Market Rate (BMR) housing requirement.

(a) All PD zone ordinances shall require the development to include below market rate housing
units (“BMR units”), The minimum number of BMR units in a project shall be based on the project’s
tier (see Table 1, above) and the requirements of this subsection (B)(12). The required BMR units
shall be affordable to households whose total income is at or below (i) 50% of the city’s area median
income (“AMI”), and/or (ii) 50% AMI to 80% AMI. For applications proposing BMR housing that is
affordable to households whose total income is at or below 50% AMI, at least 10% of the residential
units in the project shall be BMR units that are affordable to households in that income category. For
applications proposing BMR housing that is affordable to households whose total income is between
50% AMI and 80% AML, at least 15% of the residential units in the project shall be BMR units that
are affordable to households whose total income is between 50% AMI and 80% AMI. Applications
proposing a mix of the two AMI housing groups listed above shall require between 10% and 15%
BMR units, as determined by the city council to meet the intent of this subsection on a “blended”
approach.

(b) The draft PDZ ordinance shall include appropriate language to ensure proper administration
of, and guaranteeing ongoing compliance with, this subsection, including a requirement to record the
final PDZ ordinance against legal title to the project in the official records of Salt Lake County in a
recording priority that is reasonably agreed to by the project applicant and the city to assure ongoing
constructive notice of, inter alia, the BMR requirements of this subsection.

C. Existing development.

1. Continued use of existing, legally non-conforming improvements, including buildings,
landscaping, parking and other uses, may be authorized by a PDZ ordinance to facilitate the fullest
attainment of the objectives of this chapter.

2. The area of the original lot supporting such non-conforming uses shall not be included in any
calculations within the PD zone. Existing, legally non-conforming improvements or lots may be
modified in connection with the PD zone development to achieve superior design, but shall not be
expanded or extended. Any such modification shall not be deemed to render the improvements or
lots more non-conforming.

D. Site design criteria. All development in a PD zone also shall satisfy the following site design
criteria by providing a combination of the following:

1. Pedestrian oriented interface. A pedestrian oriented interface, which is defined as uses of
buildings and/or design features that encourage pedestrian interaction at the street level. These
include, without limitation, retail and commercial shops; space designed to be adaptable to retail uses;
service businesses; establishments dealing directly with the general public; visually interesting
features such as public art or building lobbies; display cases; accessible plazas; or similar landscaped
open spaces and pedestrian promenades/walkways for public use and congregation.

2. Site plan promotes transit oriented development. Improvements that promote available transit-
oriented development features, including pedestrian-friendly design, improvements at transportation
nodes, and other similar features likely to promote public transit.

8

3. Environmentally sustainable design checklist. As part of the application, an environmentally
sustainable design checklist shall be submitted that demonstrates the intent to design and build the
proposed project in an environmentally sustainable manner. All projects in a PD zone should provide
elements that comply with environmental design standards established by the Green Building Council
or similar, and may incorporate xeriscaping, utilize native plants and drought-resistant vegetation,
etc. Related documentation and requirements may be incorporated as part of the city’s approval
process in the PDZ ordinance or otherwise.

9
