COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO, 402
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING TEMPORARY LAND USE
REGULATIONS FOR OUTDOOR NON-VEGETATIVE PLAYING SURFACES
AND COMMENCING PROCEEDINGS TO AMEND ORDINANCES

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 et seg., as amended (the “4c?’”), authorizes a municipal legislative body, without
prior consideration of or recommendation from the planning commission, to enact an ordinance
establishing a temporary land use regulation for any part or all of the area within the municipality
if, inter alia, the legislative body makes a finding of compelling, countervailing public interest;
and

WHEREAS, §10-9a-509(1) of the Act authorizes municipalities to give notice of the
commencement of proceedings to amend its land use ordinances; and

WHEREAS, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
“City”) recently became aware of the potentially significant adverse (noise and lighting) impacts
on neighboring properties attending the construction and use of non-vegetative horizontal playing
surfaces (“sports courts”) in residential zones; and

WHEREAS, there are significant health, safety, and welfare issues surrounding sports
courts and their potential impact on residential neighborhoods; and

WHEREAS, on 5 September 2023, the Council held a duly-noticed public meeting to
discuss sports courts in residential zones and related issues and facts; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration and discussion, the Council finds (a) the proposed
temporary zoning regulation set forth below is necessary to protect the residents of the City’s
residential neighborhoods from undue adverse impacts of construction and use of sports courts on
near-by properties; (b) such action will preserve the City’s ability to study the impacts of sports
courts on residential neighborhoods; (c) such action will allow the City to ensure that its standards
for sports courts are consistent with Utah state law and with best practices; (d) all of the foregoing
together constitute a compelling, countervailing public interest basis for enacting the temporary
zoning regulation set forth below; and (e) such enactment is essential to further the health, safety,
and general welfare of the citizens of the City;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Establishment _of Temporary Zoning Regulations for Sports Courts.
During the term of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’’), Code §19.76.030(Q) shall be deemed enacted
as follows:

Q. Sports courts.
1. Notwithstanding anything in this code to the contrary, for a period not to
exceed six months following the effective date of this section 19.76.030(Q), no sports

court may be constructed or reconstructed for any reason in or contiguous to any F-
20, F-1-43, F-1-21, RR-1-43, RR-1-29, RR-1-21, R-1-15, R-1-10, R-1-8 or R-1-6
residential single family zone.

2. For purposes of this section, “sports court” means any horizontal playing
area of over 500 square feet that is paved or otherwise covered with a non-vegetative
surface reasonably usable or intended for use for multi-player sports activities such as
tennis, pickleball or basketball, together with all related fencing and exterior lighting.

Section 2. Duration. Unless sooner terminated by action of the Council, this Ordinance
shall remain in effect until the date that is six months after its effective date.

Section 3. Pending Ordinance. Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §10-9a-509,
proceedings to amend Code chapter 19.76 (concerning sports courts) within 180 days after the
effective date of this Ordinance are hereby commenced.

Section 4. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 5. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 6. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 7. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 402, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 5" day of September 2023.

ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HEJGHTS CITY COUNCIL
By! : am ON 2 - “
Paula Meg ar, Recorder Se > sm, \> “yy Michael T. Weichers, Mayor
<5 ed we :
“\ oN 2005 4 y OTING:
bj mm Or ge
ey" Michael T. Weichers Yea Nay X_
Matt Holton Yea Nay
J. Scott Bracken Yea ¥ Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea X Nay __
Ellen Birrell Yea Nay |
2

DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 5" day of September 2023.
POSTED this & day of September 2023.
3 :
