                                Cottonwood Heights
                                    Ordinance No.375

                 An Ordinance Amending Section 8.32.050,
                 Cottonwood Heights Code of Ordinances,
                 Concerning Animals in and Upon Vehicles

      whereas, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Com/jc/Z”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights(the     adopted a code of ordinances(the          for the City; and

        WHEREAS,Code Section 8.32.050 ^'Section 8.32.050”) details protections for animals
in and upon vehicles in the City; and

       WHEREAS,the Council met in regular session on 15 February 2022 to consider, among
other things, amending Section 8.32.050 to enhance the protections for animals in and upon
vehicles in the City; and

        WHEREAS,after carefiil consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests ofthe health, safety, and welfare ofits residents to so amend Section 8.32.050;

      NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of
Cottonwood Heights as follows:

       Section 1.     Amendment of Section 8,32,050. The Council hereby amends Section
8.32.050 of the Code as shown on the attached exhibit, which shows deletions to current Section
8.32.050 struck threu^ or otherwise shown as deletions, and additions to current Section
8.32.050 underlined or otherwise shown as additions. Minor changes to formatting, punctuation
and the like may not be marked on the attached exhibit.

       Section 2.     Action ofOfficers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this "'Ordinance”),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

       Section 3.      Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any
reason, be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such
section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs,
clauses or provisions ofthis Ordinance.

        Section 4.    Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are,to the extent ofsuch conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 5.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 375, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office ofthe City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

      PASSED AND APPROVED this 15"* day ofFebruary 2022.
ATTEST:                                COTTONWOOD                TS CITY COUNCIL


                                                     /

  Paula MeIgar,yR£cordei                      iimael T. Weichers, Mayor


                                          ●TING:

                                       Michael T. Weichers         Yea      Nay
                                       Douglas Petersen            Yea^     Nay
                                       J. Scott Bracken            Yea      Nay
                                       Shawn E. Newell             Yea V-   Nay
                                       Ellen Birrell               Yea      Nay

    DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 15^ day of February 2022.

    POSTED this\j^day of February 2022.




                                          2
                          Exhibit to Ordinance No.375

8.32.050 Animals in vehicles.
    A.It is unlawful for any person to carry or confine any animal in or upon any vehicle in a
cruel or inhumane manner, including but not limited to cam’ing or conllning such animal
withoutleavimi an animal in any unattended motor vehicle under conditions that endanger the
animal’s health or well-being due to heat, cold, lack of adequate ventilation or for an unusual
length of time. Persons iransportinu. lack of food or water, or other circumstances that
reasonably could be cNpccted lo, cause sufferinu. iniurv^ or death to the animal. A peace officer,
firefnzhter. humane oflicer,_an[mal c.oji.trol ofllcer. or other_emerLzencv responder mav take all
steps that are reasonably necessary for the removal of an animaL.frojn.confinement in a motor
vehicle.
    B. It is unlawful for anv person to transport an animal in the open bed of a vehicle must
physically restrainwithout cauinti or restraining the animal in sueh-a manner as to preventthat
prevents the animal from jumping or falling out offrom the vehicle.
         It is unlawful for any person to allow a vehicle to be used as a shelter or housing for
pets.




                                                3
