                                   CorroNwooD HBrcurs
                                        Onnr¡¡aNcB No. 360

                            AN OnnmANCE ENacrnrc AotnroNar
                           RnsrrucuoNs oN rrm UsB op Fm.nwoRKS

          WHERBAS, on 21 Jwte 2021 the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood
 Heights (the "City") met in special session to consider, among other things, enacting additional
 restrictions on the use of fireworks in the City; and

       WHEREAS, high temperatures, low precipitation, and abundant foliage have combined to
increase the risk of wildfire in the state of Utah, resulting in 80% of the state now being in an
exceptional drought and eliciting the following statement by Governor Spencer Cox on 15 June
2021: ooBecause it is so dry, I am pleading with you, we are working with the legislature and local
governments to cut back onfireworks this year;" and

        IVHEREAS, although pursuant to UrRu Cons ANN. sections 11-3-8 and 52-7-225 the
Council's legal ability to restrict use of fireworks is limited, the Council is able to restrict the use
of fireworks in (a) areas which historically have exhibited hazardous environmental conditions
and are designated on a county-wide map under UrnH Cop¡ A¡w. 53-7-225(6) ("historically
hazardous areos"), and (b) additional areas which exhibit current hazardous environmental
conditions as provided in Ureu CoppAxN.l5\-2-202.5(lxb) ("currently hazardous areas"); and

        WHEREAS, the Council heretofore has enacted its Ordinance Nos. 27,46,60,90 and 191,
and related amendments to Code chapters 9.75,9.77 and 14.60,limiting the use of fireworks in
the City's historically hazardous areas due to the risk of fire-related injuries to persons and damage
to public and private property; and

        \ilHEREAS, the historically hazardous areas designated by City ordinance, and certain
additional ateas, are included in the current county-wide map issued by Salt Lake County (the
"County Map") under Urnn Copn ANN. 53-7-225(6), resulting in the prohibition of fireworks in
those historically hazardous areas; and

          WHEREAS, on 15 l:uurte202l, the City received a letter from Brad Larsen, Fire Marshal
 of the City's fire and emergency services provider, Unified Fire Authority ("UFA"), a copy of
 which letter is attached to this ordinance, stating: ool have determined, as the fire code fficíø\, that
 hazardous environmental conditions exist that necessitate the controlled use of ignition sources
from 1300 East eastward, at a minimum. I recommend that your entity evaluate the restrictions of
 ignition sources, including fireworlçs, at this line of demarcation and prohibit their use in those
 areas east of 1300 East that your legislative bodies determine meet the criteria providedfor in
 utah code I5A-2-202.5(1)(b)(1) and (2);" and

        WHEREAS, beyond the continuing prohibition of fireworks in the historically hazardous
areas pursuant to the current County Map, the Council believes that Fire Marshal Larsen's letter
establishes that all areas in the City located from 1300 East eastward constitute currently hazardous
areas in which fireworks should also be prohibited due to the current drought's creation of overly
dry and easily combustible trees, shrubs, and grasses; and
         WHEREAS, after careful consideration of, inter alia,the recent request by Governor Cox,
 Fire Marshal Larsen's letter, public comment and input, and the Council's finding that the current
 drought's creation of overly dry and easily combustible trees, shrubs, and grasses has transformed
 all areas in the City located from 1300 East eastward into a currently hazardous area in which
 fireworks should also be prohibited in concert with the prohibition of the use of fireworks in the
 historically hazardous areas in the City shown on the current County Map; and

        WHEREAS, consequently, the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the
health, safety and welfare of the City's residents to enact additional restrictions on the use of
fireworks in the City through 30 December 2021; and

        NOW' THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

        Section   1.   Prohibitíon of Fireworks Throueh 30 December 202L Due to unusually
hazardous fire conditions currently existing throughout the City and the increased fire risk posed
by the discharge of fireworks, the discharge of any and all fireworks is prohibited not only in all
historically hazardous areas in the City shown on the current County Map, but also in all other
areas in the City located from 1300 East eastward, which the Council hereby deems to be currently
hazardous areas through 30 December 202l.In this Section 1, the term "fireworks" means all Class
C common state approved explosives and all Class C dangerous explosives as defined in Uran
ConB AuN. 53-7-202, and all other types of explosive devices that are commonly known as
fireworks.

       Section    2.   Publíc Dísplav* This Ordinance and the restrictions contained herein do
not apply to the planned fireworks display at City's "Butlerville Days" civic celebration on 24 July
2021 because of adequate fire prevention measures and UFA presence that will be utilized in
connection with such event.

         Section 3.    Actìon of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the pu{pose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

        Section 4.     Severøbìlìtv. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

        Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are,to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

         Section  6.    Effective Døte. This Ordinance, assigned no. 360, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 21't day of June 2021.


                                                  2
ATTEST:                                COTTOIY\ryOOD HEIG             CITY COUNCIL




                                              Michael J.         Mayor


                                                  G

                                       Michael J. Peterson
                                       Douglas Petersen
                                                                     vea
                                                                           -,/N ay _
                                                                     Yea u.zNay
                                       J. Scott Bracken              'Yea¡ulNay _
                                                                                -
                                       Tali C. Bruce                 {eavatray _
                                       Christine Watson Mikell        Yea_Nay _ q<UAçÐ
    DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 21't day of June 202I.

    POSTED this Z\day of June 2021.




                                                                                         L




                                          1
                                          J
                   UNIFIED FIRE AUTllORITY                                               flflt Pflt l/fN ï/ 0/t/ 0 / I4t/ 0//


June 15,202I

To: UFA Members

I have been asked to provide guidance as to the currently existing environmental conditions that
are in effect as they may impact your legislative bodies' evaluation of additional fireworks
restrictions beyond those created based upon historical conditions.

The US Drought Monitor shows most of Salt Lake County in the D-4, Exceptional Drought
category. I received a report Saturday from the Division of Forestry Fire and State Lands that
shows we are clearly following the historic dry line and explosive potential. This means that
along the Wasatch Front, the energy release component of vegetation is near maximum potential
and the fuel moisture well below average. Given the unusually high temperatures and low
humidity the past few days since these reports, conditions have become drier.

Water conservation measures, while necessary, will contribute to even drier vegetation
conditions around and within residential neighborhoods as the season progresses, such as the
drying out of bushes, trees, and lawns. This will increase the fire potential during this fireworks
season even in areas not traditionally covered by fireworks bans.

Given these reports, factors and conditions, I have determined, as the fire code offrcial, that
hazardous environmental conditions exist that necessitate the controlled use of ignition sources
from 1300 East eastward, at aminimum. I recommend that your entity evaluate the restrictions
of ignition sources, including fireworks, at this line of demarcation and prohibit their use in those
areas east of 1300 East that your legislative bodies determine meet the criteria provided for in
Utah Code $154-s-202.5(1XbX1) and (2).

We will continue to monitor conditions. Should they worsen, other areas may need to be
considered.

Please feel free to contact our office should you have any questions.



Brad Larson
Fire Marshal / Unffied Fire Authority
4965 S Redwood Rd / Taylorsville, UT 84123
801-743-7227 o 1801- 205-4080 c
blarson@ uni fi edfire. org




     338050urh900h{est,îouth5ølÍløkecity,atah 84119. (80a/ß-7230offke (80t)74J-/t2tføx * t{ffi{.tliltftf0fßf.0î6
