COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 347
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 9.62,
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES,
ENTITLED “IDLING VEHICLES”

WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”) for the City; and

WHEREAS, Code Chapter 9.62 (“Chapter 9.62”), entitled “Idling Vehicles,” details the
regulations adopted by the City to promote cleaner air by limiting the idling times of certain motor
vehicles; and

WHEREAS, the Council met in regular meeting on 20 October 2020 to consider, among
other things, amending Chapter 9.62 to (a) conform Chapter 9.62’s requirements to those of
subsequently-enacted Utah state law (i.e., UTAH CODE ANN. 41-6a-208[3][c][v][B][I]) permitting
vehicle idling in the drive-through lanes of certain private businesses; and (b) reduce, from three
to one, the number of required “warning” tickets before a citation may be issued for non-
compliance with Chapter 9.62; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety, and welfare of its residents to amend Chapter 9.62 as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Amendment of Chapter 9.62. The Council hereby amends Chapter 9.62 of
the Code as shown on the attached exhibit, with additions to current Chapter 9.62 shown in bolded,
underlined italics or otherwise shown as additions, and deletions to current Chapter 9.62 struck
threugh or otherwise shown as deletions.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

| Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 347, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 20 day of October 2020.
COTTONWOOD HEIG CYTY COUNCIL
By
Michael J. Petérfon, Mayor
ATTEST: A
, OD HEz,
) / ky x »\
3
a ~3/8 So, te Ss
Paula Mel o) ecorder A 2005 Ya
VOTING:
Michael J. Peterson Yea Nay __
Douglas Petersen “Yea —“Nay___
J. Scott Bracken “Yea “ Nay __
Tali C. Bruce Yea “ Nay __
Christine Watson Mikell Yea —Nay |
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 20" day of October 2020.
POSTED this 2aviny of October 2020.
2

Chapter 9.62
IDLING VEHICLES
Sections:
9.62.010 Limitations on idling vehicles; Exceptions.
9.62.020 Violations.
9.62.010 Limitation on idling vehicles; Exceptions.

No driver shall allow a vehicle’s engine to idle on public property or on private property open
to the general public within the city’s corporate limits for more than one minute, subject to the
following exceptions:

A. The vehicle is forced to idle on a roadway because of traffic conditions or traffic control
devices.

B. Vehicle idling is necessary for auxiliary power for law enforcement or fire equipment;
emergency and/or water equipment; refrigeration units; loading and unloading lifts; well drilling;
farming; battery charging; or for the proper functioning of other equipment that is part of the
vehicle.

C. Vehicle idling is necessary for the efficient operation of a turbocharged heavy duty vehicle
(e.g., buses) or to operate a vehicle within the manufacturer’s operating requirements such as, for
example, building air pressure in air brake systems.

D. Vehicle idling is necessary for the health and/or safety of a driver or passenger, including
police K-9 or other service animals.

E. Vehicle idling is necessary for the proper repair, maintenance or inspection of the vehicle.

F. The vehicle is an authorized emergency or law enforcement vehicle and is either:

1. Being used in an emergency or by an on-duty law enforcement officer; or

2. Needing to idle for the safety of the emergency workers.

9.62.020 Violations.

A. Because this chapter is primarily to educate, an individual must be issued warning
citation before a citation may be issued for violation of this chapter.

B. Violation of this chapter is punishable as an infraction.
