COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 354
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 11.22.130 AND 11.22.140
OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
| CONCERNING GUEST PERMITS IN PERMIT PARKING AREAS

WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council’) of the city of

| Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”) for the City; and

WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 19 January 2021 to consider, among
other things, amending Sections 11.22.130 and 11.22.140 of the Code concerning the issuance and
use of guest permits in the City’s permit parking areas; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to so amend Sections 11.22.130
and 11.22.140 of the Code as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amended Sections 11.22.130 and 11.22.140. The Council
hereby amends Sections 11.22.130 and 11.22.140 (collectively, the “Sections”) of the Code as
shown on the attached exhibit, which shows deletions to the current Sections struckthreugh or
otherwise shown as deletions, and additions to the current Sections underlined or otherwise shown
as additions.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 354, shall take effect as soon
as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of
the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 19" day of January 2021.
ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
ae Un~ . f ff
Paula Melgar, Recordex & € oy ity? ‘ F Michael J. Peterson, Mayor
IN? Y Ay
“6 @VOTING:

Michael J. Peterson YeayNay___
Douglas Petersen ‘Yeaw—Nay__|
J. Scott Bracken Year—Nay___
Tali C. Bruce Year Nay ___
Christine Watson Mikell ‘Yea Nay

DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 19" day of January 2021.

POSTED this 2oday of January 2021.

2

11.22.130 Guest permits.

A. The community development director is authorized to issue guest permits to residents and
businesses located within designated permit areas for use of their occasional bona fide transient
visitors, service persons, and construction personnelferatimited duration neHe-exceed45-days.
Prior to expiration, a vehicle bearing a guest permit shall have all the parking rights, obligations
and privileges given to area permittees.

B. Each property within a residential permit parking area established by the city council shall
be issued two guest permits at the time that such property’s area regular permit is issued. Issuance
of guest permits for properties within a commercial permit parking area shall be as determined by
the city council during creation of such area. The city council may, in its discretion, modify
provisions for guest permits either during consideration of a new permit parking area or after
giving at least ten days” prior written notice to the properties within the affected permit parking
area.

C, Guest permits are not transferrable. Each guest permit shall include on its face such
identifying information as the city deems appropriate to identify the permit and to tie its use to a
particular property. If a guest permit is lost, issuance of a replacement shall be subject to the city’s
reasonable requirements, including, without limitation, payment of an administrative fee to cover
the city’s cost to cancel the lost permit and to issue the replacement.

D. The city’s manager is authorized _and directed to cause the city’s administrative staff to
formulate and adopt such administrative policies, procedures and fee schedules as the manager
deems appropriate in furtherance of this section.

11.22.140 Parking permit—Revocation conditions.

A. Faithful compliance with the terms of the permit program is a condition subsequent to the
privilege of obtaining an area regular permit or guest permit. Violation of the terms of the city
permit program shall be deemed a forfeiture of those privileges.

1. Any person holding an area regular permit or guest permit that is convicted of a violation
of this chapter may be required to surrender such permit as a part of sentencing.

2. The community development director is authorized to revoke an area regular permit or
guest permit of any person found to be in violation of this chapter, and upon written notification
thereof, the person shall surrender such permit to the community development director. Failure,
when so requested, to surrender such a permit so revoked shall constitute an infraction.

3. Inthe event the community development director has good cause to believe that any person
or entity is abusing the visitor permit system, he shall so notify such person abusing the visitor
permit system. Any further application for a visitor permit by such person found abusing the visitor
permit system may be denied for a period of not more than one year.

B. Any person aggrieved by such a determination made by the community development
director under subsections (A)(2) and (A)(3) of this section shall have the right to appeal to the

| city manager meyer-within ten seven-days after such determination.
3
