COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 346
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING THE BONNEVILLE SHORELINE TRAIL
ACCESS MASTER PLAN ELEMENT OF THE CITY’S GENERAL PLAN

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 ef seg., as amended (the “Acf’), provides that each municipality shall prepare
and adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan; and

WHEREAS, the Act requires the municipality’s planning commission to prepare the
general plan and submit it to the municipality’s legislative body; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt and amend the general plan; and

WHEREAS, on 26 July 2005, following full compliance with the procedures for
formulation, public hearing and recommendation specified in UTAH CODE ANN. §§10-9a-401
through -404, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the “City”)
enacted its Ordinance No. 24 adopting a general plan (with all previous amendments, the “General
Plan’) for the City; and

WHEREAS, as authorized by statute, the General Plan includes various topical “elements”
or divisions, including a transportation element and an urban trails element which address, among
other things, transportation choices and alternate modes of travel; and

WHEREAS, the City’s planning staff and its planning commission (the “Planning
Commission”) have formulated a Bonneville Shoreline Trail Access Master Plan Element of the
City’s General Plan (the “Master Plan’) to serve as a comprehensive document that effectuates
and fulfills various goals and objectives of the General Plan by adopting policies to help guide the
future development and implementation of access points and improvements concerning the
Bonneville Shoreline Trail that are within the scope of the Master Plan; and

WHEREAS, following all required notices, one or more public hearings were held before
the Planning Commission concerning the proposed Master Plan, where citizens were given the
opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the Master Plan; and

WHEREAS, a copy of the Master Plan is available at the following web address and is
incorporated herein by this reference: https://www.cottonwoodheights.utah.gov/city-
services/community-development/adopted-and-special-plans; and

WHEREAS, following such public hearing(s), the Planning Commission voted to
recommend that the Council approve the Master Plan, and thereafter recommended that the
Council approve and adopt the Master Plan; and

WHEREAS, thereafter, the Council solicited and received additional public comment
concerning the Master Plan at one or more public meetings of the Council; and

WHEREAS, the Council met in regular meeting on 20 October 2020 to consider, among
other things, approving and adopting the Master Plan; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the comments at the public hearings and public meetings, and other pertinent
information, and otherwise being fully advised, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to so adopt the modified Master
Plan as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Master Plan. The Council hereby approves and adopts the
Master Plan. From and after the effective date of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”), the Master
Plan shall be deemed to augment the General Plan.

Section 2. Future Amendment of General Plan. Pursuant to the authority granted in
the Act, the Council shall have, and hereby expressly reserves, the right to hereafter further amend
the Master Plan and/or the General Plan at any time or from time to time hereafter for any purpose
upon recommendation by the Planning Commission following all appropriate public notices and
hearings required by the Act.

Section 3. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 4. Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 5. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 6. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 346, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 20" day of October 2020.

ATTEST: pe 4g COTTPNWOOP H CITY COUNCIL
: P40 ON .
oy Xe.
Syn) {he fre EB
Paula Mel ar, Recordé| BL hier Michael J. Pet¢rson, Mayor
2
wis &

| VOTING:
| Michael J. Peterson Yea wNay
Douglas Petersen Yea “Nay ___
J. Scott Bracken Yeap” Nay___
Tali C. Bruce «YeaweNay__-
Christine Watson Mikell Yea ~~Nay
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 20" day of October 2020.
POSTED this 22day of October 2020.
3
