COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 410-A
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE RE-ZONE OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED AT 7980
SOUTH DANISH OAKS DRIVE FROM RURAL RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY (RR-1-21)
TO RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY (R-1-10) AND AMENDING THE ZONING MAP

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 et seg., as amended (the “Act”), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission’s recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the city; and

WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the city council (the “Counci?”) of the city of Cottonwood
Heights (the “City”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City’s code of ordinances (the “Code”); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 25, the Council also adopted a zoning map for
the City (the “Zoning Map”); and

WHEREAS, on 17 January 2024 the City’s planning commission (the “Planning
Commission”) held a public hearing on an application by Josh Cameron requesting the re-zone of
an approximately .45 acre parcel of real property located at 7980 South Danish Oaks Drive (the
“Property”) from RR-1-21 (Rural Residential Single Family) to R-1-10 (Residential Single
Family), at which time all interested parties were given the opportunity to provide written or oral
comment concerning the proposed re-zone; and

WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

WHEREAS, on 17 January 2024 the Planning Commission recommended approval of
such proposed re-zone of the Property, and forwarded such recommendation of approval to the
Council for final action; and

WHEREAS, after taking additional public input, on 20 February 2024 the Council met in
regular meeting to consider, among other things, such proposed re-zone of the Property; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings where such proposed re-
zone was discussed, and recommendations of City staff, the Council has determined that it is in
the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve re-zoning
the Property as specified below;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Re-zone to R-J-10. The Council hereby re-zones the Property from RR-1-
21 (Rural Residential Single Family) to R-1-10 (Residential Single Family).

Section 2. Adoption of Amended Zoning Map. The Council hereby amends the City’s
zoning map to reflect the re-zone of the Property effected by this Ordinance and hereby adopts the
amended zoning map that is attached as an exhibit hereto as the City’s current zoning map for the
Property.

Section 3. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 4. Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 5. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 6. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 410-A, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 20" day of February 2024.

ATTEST: peda, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
4 We ONWOG ht f
| we ON 4 £ 7A
Aa at (RE Y/Y fO-
By—\_L ah ae. 2 EE ( f(fA_/ 7 ——
Paula Melgar Re orden \ 3“ ma y IS Michael T. Weichers, Mayor
“Py rG VOTING:
. : \
Michael T. Weichers Yea . Nay __
Matt Holton Yea % Nay __
Suzanne Hyland YeaXZ Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea\Z Nay_
Ellen Birrell Yea SX Nay |
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 20" day of February 2024.
POSTED this Z\ day of February 2024.
2

Exhibit to Ordinance 410-A
Current Zoning
i i ' ss -
OT Gg (letleldabdel gl ar) PF eh
7 lo Bergat Bt =a
i A i 38 eps d
SOC me Hays
<< Lore, Ey ee a es
DC ee) | 1
ia oe eo ten Cl
tf x Ww > :
ae ui > 7 » ve
iB oo | A
SCA Zar aN . \ 4 -
Proposed Zoning
a a ge mm se! Coane ,
o ELeck i AM
Se ys
SS EAT g Ld
a)
a {A
bs On EIS ~ oN ; iar,
—
= ieee
ous = Subject Property for ZMA-23-002
* = Parcel Owned by Project Applicant
3
