COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS ,
ORDINANCE No. 421
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 19 OF
THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
(SEPTEMBER 2024 CODE MAINTENANCE)

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 ef seq., as amended (the “Ac?”), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission’s recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the City; and

WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the legislative body (the “Council”) of the city of
‘Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for
the City and codifying such ordinance as Title 19 (“Title 19”) of the City’s code of ordinances (the
“Code”); and

WHEREAS, thereafter, the City’s planning commission (the “Planning Commission’)
formulated proposed amendments (the “Amendments’’) to Title 19 to clarify ambiguous definitions
and procedures and rectify conflicting provisions in the Code as part of general maintenance of the
Code; and

WHEREAS, because certain of the Amendments affect Title 19, and to provide an
opportunity for public input concerning all the proposed Amendments, a public hearing was held
before the Planning Commission where citizens were given the opportunity to provide written or
oral comment concerning the proposed Amendments; and

WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended the
Amendments to the Council for adoption; and

WHEREAS, the Council subsequently took additional public comment concerning the
Amendments; and

WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with the Amendments, a copy of
which is annexed as an exhibit to this ordinance, including any amendments proposed by the
Council to the form of the Amendments affecting Title 19 that were recommended for adoption
by the Planning Commission, as authorized by UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-502(2); and

WHEREAS, on 10 September 2024 the Council met in regular meeting to consider, among
other things, amending the Code to enact the Amendments, including any such revisions; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings, and other relevant input,
the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City to adopt and enact the Amendments as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amendments. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendments in the form of the attached exhibit, wherein deletions to the current affected
ordinances are struekthreugh or otherwise shown as deletions and additions to the current affected
ordinances are underlined or otherwise shown as additions.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’’),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 421, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 10" day of September 2024.

ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
Tea .
Paula Melgz o oo C OAS '> Michael T. Weichers, Mayor

4 e : He

ff.
Ss 5
Ny

2

VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea X_Nay___
Matt Holton Yea 4 Nay.
Suzanne Hyland Yea X Nay___
Shawn E. Newell Yea y< Nay
Ellen Birrell Yea A Nay
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 10" day of September 2024.
POSTED this |) day of September 2024.
3

Yard Elements Proposed Changes

Staff has observed ongoing confusion regarding the development standards for yard projects, such

as swimming pools, gazebos, pergolas, etc. While city code has generalized regulations which staff

utilizes to review these projects, it lacks specific mention of these elements, which creates

confusion when residents and contractors attempt to locate the regulations in code. As such, staff

proposes the following code edits to specifically reference these common yard projects, including

definitions and regulations. These edits are tracked below in blue.

Title 19 - Zoning

19.04 - Definitions

19.04.125 Appeals Hearing Officer

An individual appointed by the manager with advice and consent of the city council, who is

authorized to, inter alia, make special exceptions to the city’s zoning ordinance (i.e., variances) and

to hear and decide certain appeals alleging error in an order, requirement, decision or

determination as provided in this title.

19.04.130 Arbor

Af r chee ; \ igt

feat in heigt itt feet in clagstt

19.04,135 Art Gallery Or Museum

An institution for the collection, display and/or distribution of objects of art or science, and which is

typically sponsored by a public or quasi-public agency and generally open to the public.

19.04.140 Assisted Living Facility

Acongregate residence facility for ten or more elderly (over 55 years of age) persons, regardless of

legal relationship, who need limited assistance with daily living activities. A limited number of

support services such as meals, laundry, housekeeping, transportation, social /recreational

activities, hairdressing, etc. may be provided or associated with the assisted living facility. Units

may be attached or detached, single- or double-occupancy, and may include limited or full kitchen

facilities. Full-time medical or nursing care is not typically provided by the facility, but may be

privately arranged for by individual residents on a part-time or temporary basis (e.g., visiting nurses,
: etc.).

19.04.950 Fire Department
The Unified Fire Authority or other fire or emergency services contract provider for the city.
19.04.955 Flagpole

|

f ‘and 1 for th a t dianiating

19.04.960 Flood Plain
An area of land subject to inundation by a 100-year frequency flood as determined using standard
engineering practices and generally as shown on the FIRM Flood Insurance Rate Map of the city.
19.04.1110 Gasoline Service Or Filling Station
See “automotive gasoline or motor fuel service station.”
19.04.1115 Gazebo
19.04.1120 General Commercial Plant
Establishments other than personal service shops for the treatment and/or processing of products
as a service on a for-profit basis including, but not limited to, newspaper printing, laundry plant, or
cleaning and dyeing plants.
19.04.2010 Personal Service Shop Or Custom Personal Services
Establishments of less than 2,000 square feet in gross floor area, primarily engaged in providing
services generally involving the care of the person or his apparel and including, without limitation,
barber/beauty shops, dressmaking, shoe shining and repair, dry-cleaning and laundry pick-up
stations, tailor or seamstress services, and other similar types of uses. Outside storage is
prohibited.

| 19.04.2015 Pergola

open lattice.

19.04.2020 Pet And Animal Grooming Shop

Aretail establishment offering small animals, fish and/or birds for sale as pets, where such creatures
are housed within the building, and which may include the grooming of dogs, cats and similar
animals.

19.04.2080 Playfield Or Stadium (Private)

An athletic field or stadium not owned and operated by a public agency.

climbing frames, not including any water or electricity connections, nor habitable space.
19.04.2090 Portable Building Sales (Outdoor Display)

An establishment which displays and sells structures capable of being carried and transported to
another location, but not including mobile homes.

19.04.2210 Radio, Television Or Microwave Tower

See “antenna, microwave reflector and antenna support structure.”
19.04.2215 Raised Beds, Planters

enclosed by structures.

19.04.2220 Rear Yard

See “yard, rear.”

19.04.2380 Retail Shop (For Apparel, Gifts, Accessories And Similar Items)

An establishment engaged in the selling of goods and merchandise to the general public for
personal or household consumption and rendering services incidental to the sale of such goods.
(See also “general retail stores”).
19.04.2385 Retaining Wall | Formatted: Font: Not Bold, No underline
wall.
19.04.2390 Retirement Housing For The Elderly (Also Independent Living Center Or Congregate
Housing)
A development providing self-contained dwelling units specifically designed for the needs of the
elderly. Units may be rented or owner-occupied. To qualify as retirement housing, a minimum of
80% of the total units shall have a household head 55 years of age or greater. No long-term or
permanent skilled nursing care or related services are provided.
19.04.2730 Swimming Pool, Commercial
A swimming pool with accessory facilities which is not part of the municipal or public recreational
system and which is not a private swim club, but where the facilities are available for use by the
general public for a fee.
19.04.2735 Swimming Pool, Outd
swim spas, and plunge pools.

| 19.04.27450 Telemarketing Center
An establishment which solicits business or the purchase of goods and/or services by telephone
only. No sales of goods or services to the public occurs at or on the premises. No products are
stored at or on the premises.
19.04.2750 Telephone And Exchange, Switching/Relay Or Transmitting Station
Aline for the transmission of telephone signals and a central office in which telephone lines are
connected to permit communication but not including a business office, storage (inside or outside)
or repair yards.

19.04.2930 Transportation And Utility Structures/Facilities

Permanent facilities and structures operated by companies engaged in providing transportation

and utility services including but not limited to railroad track rights-of-way, sewage pumping

stations, telephone exchanges, transit station turnarounds, water reservoirs and water pumping

stations.

19.04.2935 Tree House

19.04.2940 Trellis Formatted: Font: Not Bold, No underline

“ Formatted: Font: Not Bold, No underline

Formatted: Space After: 8 pt

| 19.04.29450 Truck

A light or heavy load vehicle (see “light load vehicle” and “heavy load vehicle”).

19.04.2950 Truck And Bus Repair

An establishment providing major and minor automotive repair services to heavy load vehicles.

19.04.3040 Variance

An adjustment in the application of the specific regulations of this title to a particular parcel of

property which, because of special conditions or circumstances of hardship peculiar to the

particular parcel, is necessary to prevent the property from being deprived of rights and privileges

enjoyed by other parcels in the same vicinity and zoning district. Only the appeals hearing officer

may grant a variance.
| 19.04.304558 Veterinarian Clinic

An establishment where animals and pets are admitted for examination and medical treatment
(see also “kennels”).

19.04.3050 Water Features

i tri d are not utilized for r i
19.04.3055 Weapon
A weapon is (a) any firearm, including, without limitation, any barreled device, of any description,
from which any shot, bullet, pellet, dart, paintball or other potentially harmful missile can be
discharged, any component part of or accessory to such a firearm, including accessories designed
or adapted to diminish the noise or flash caused by the firing of the firearm; (b) any knife, including,
without limitation, a belt buckle knife, dirk, dagger, sword, cane sword, pen knife, lipstick knife,
switchblade, butterfly knife or any other knife that has a blade longer than 2.5 inches, opens
automatically, or has more than one sharp edge; (c) nunchaku; (d) metal knuckles; (e) blow guns in
excess of 12” in length; (f) bows and crossbows; (g) ammunition, arrows, bolts, bullets or any
explosive device.
Title 19 - Zoning
19.76 —- Supplementary and Qualifying Rules and Regulations
19.76.030 Structures, Bulk And Massing Requirements
A. Dwellings, including guest homes, on lots.
1. Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot, as defined in this title.
Except for group dwellings and guest houses, not more than one dwelling structure
shall occupy a lot.
2. Guest houses shall be a permitted use in the following zones:
a) R-1-8; R-1-10; and R-1-15
b) RR-1-21; RR-1-29; and RR-1-43
c) F-1-21; and F-1-43
d) F-20
3. The guest house shall be a detached accessory use to a principal residence and
shall be located in the rear yard of the principal lot.
4. The maximum allowed area of the guest house shall not exceed 25% of the area of
the rear yard.
5. The floor area of the guest house and principal residence combined shall not
exceed the maximum impervious surface coverage for the site.

§. The rental or lease of a guest house, or the use of a guest house as a permanent
residence for a second family on the premises shall be prohibited.
7. (Installation of separate utility meters for the guest house is prohibited.
8. Ali bulk and massing requirements for accessory buildings, as per the applicable ;
zone, shall be applicable to the guest house.
B. Accessory buildings—Area of coverage and building area. 7 .
1. No accessory building or group of accessory buildings in any residential zone shall ;
cover more than 25% of the rear yard.
2. Accessory buildings shall not be constructed before the principal/main building is : oo ;
constructed, ; ;
3. Minimum yard area requirements for accessory buildings are as follows: an
a} No accessory buitding shall be located in a front, side, or corner side yard : ; ; .
area of any lot. ; .
b} Except as otherwise provided in this title, no accessory building shallexceed _ . . oo ;
20 feet in height. Further, for every foot of height over 14 feet, accessory a se oe
structures shall be set back from property lines an additional foot from the : a
minimum setback to allow a maximum height of 20 feet. a Do
c) Except as otherwise provided in this title, the following setbacks from : - . ; es
property lines shall apply, based on accessory structure height: Ce
1. Accessory buiiding height up to 14 feet: Three foot setback; ee ; . oe a ;
2. Accessory building height up to 15 feat: Four foot setback; . ; : So : oe
3. Accessory building height up to 16 feet: Five foot setback; = ae a .
4. Accessory building height up to 17 feet: Six foot setback; : a Be ,
5. Accessory building height up to 18 feet: Seven foot setback; ; - . Oe
§. Accessory building height up to 19 feet: Eight foot setback; and St Se
7. Accessory building height up to 20 feet: Nine foot setback; . , . .
4, All buildings shall be separated by a minimum distance of six feet. : a - - ae _-

C. Public use—reduced lot area and yards. The minimum Lot area and minimum yard Soy a a
requirements of this title may be reduced by the planning commission for a public use, The . co a
planning commission shall not authorize a reduction in the lot area or yard requirements if ; aot
rule 19.76.030(H)}, “Additional height allowed when,” is in use, or untess the evidence
presented is such as to establish that the reduction will not, under the circumstances of the . . ; ;
particutar casa, be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or Lo So ; Le
working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity. ; oo ;

D, Structure height — Vertical measurement.
1. Structure height shall be measured by taking the average vertical distance :
measured at the four corners of the main structure. This measurement shall be
taken from the original natural grade of the lot to the highest point of the roof
structure. In cases where the four corners of the structure are not explicitly clear, :
the city’s building official and the director shall designate the four corners of the
structure. : :
2, Structures may be stepped to accommodate the slope of the terrain provided that
each step shall be at teast 12 feet in horizontal dimension. The height of each ;
stepped segment shalt be measured as required in Subsection (A).
3, Original ground surface shall be the elevation of the ground surface in its natural : ; So
state before any manmade alterations such as, without limitation, grading, ; ; : ;
excavation or filing, excluding improvements required by zoning or subdivision : ft ; :
ordinances. When the elevation of the original ground surface is not readily ok ; ; oo
apparent because of previous manmade alterations, the elevation of the original a :
grade shall be determined by the director using the best information available. ;
E. Lotgrade-measurement. The percent grade of a lot shall be derived by determining the :
percent increase or decrease in elevation using the area of the proposed structure footprint os : ;
and the front yard. ; ; me a
F, Height limitations—Buildii . No buitding shall be erected to a height -
less than one story above grade. ; : So : .
G. Height limitations—Exceptions. Inthe ORD, CR, MU, NC, RO and PF zones, penthouse or ., : ; . ;
roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar ; : a
equipment required to operate and maintain the building may be erected abovathaheight — - Uo: ; ; ;
limits prescribed in this title when approved by the planning commission, but no space . — . . 7 ; ;
above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor space.In- ss . om a .
the case of conflicting provisions, the stricter requirement shalt apply. ; se Fo
H. Additional height allowed when. Public or semipublic utility buildings, when authorized in a so . . ; ,
zone, may be erected to a height not exceeding 40 feet if the building is set back from each . . ;
otherwise established building line at least one foot for each additional foot of building — me a 7
height above the normat height limit required for the zone in which the building is erected. I : re
|. Story, first. The lowest story in a building that qualifies as a story, except that a floor levelin oe ; oe no : oan
a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a first story. Where a floor ina . ; ; Ro tet ;
building is more than four feet below existing grade for more than 50 percent of the total ee ; : : :
perimeter of the building, or more than eight feet below existing grade at any point, that floor : . oo ;
will not quailfy as a story for the purposes of measuring maximum structure height. ;
J. Yard requirements. “Yard” means a space on 4 Lot, other than a court, unoccupied and :
unobstructed from the ground upward by buildings or structures, except as follows: : ; : vo ;
1. Fences; _ a OS .

2. The ordinary projections of windows where the projection is at least 18 inches above
floor level, awnings, parapets, relief carvings, roofs, cornices, chimneys, flues, and :
other ornamental features which project into a yard not more than three feet;
3. Open or lattice-enclosed exterior stalrways, located in a commercial or
manufacturing zone, projecting into a yard not more than five feet; and
4. Structures less than 18 inches in height from the finished ground surface.
K, Demolition permits.
1, Anapproved site plan is required before a commercial building can be approved for ; .
demolition. _
2. The following items must be submitted to obtain a demolition permit: ;
a) Anasbestos inspection from an approved asbestos inspactor. a - a ;
b) Acompleted and approved “Pre-demolition Building Inspection Form” from a ;
Salt Lake Valley Health Department.
c) Approval for demolition from the Utah Division of Air Quality. vee ; -
d) Aletter or amail, from all service providers to the property or structure, _ ; oe -
indicating that ail utilities have been terminated. : Oe
e) Acompleted city building permit application. : me , oe
L. Portable storage contginers. In all municipal, residential, commercial, office or mixed-use ; - - ae
zone, portable storage containers are permitted only in accordance with the following: . ‘ Lo . ; :
1. Asa temporary use, not to exceed 180 days, duringthe construction,remodalingor = ae
redevelopment of a permanent on site structure with a valid building permit. i ; os a
2. Innocase shalla tot contain more than one of such portable storage containers, nor a . - ;
shall any portable storage container be located in required landscape areas, front OT a ee
yard area, required open space, detention basins, drive aisles, fire lanes, required a ; ; a ; .
parking spaces, loading zones or any other location that may cause a threat to : , / - ms, .
public safety, or create a condition detrimental to surrounding land uses and ; : .
property owners. . ; a oo ;
3. For commercial, office and mixed-use zones a temporary site plan must be ne oo co _ .
submitted for review by the department. Approval of more than one portable storage oe . Be, : : oe
containers may be approved by staff if the DRC finds that the addition will not a , ae ts
jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare or create a nuisance. In addition, the ; 7 — 7 ;
temporary use of portable storage containers shall not violate a conditional use 7 a , : ‘
approval. ; ;
M. Construction mitigation plan for all construction. Prior to commencement of construction, : ; .
a written construction mitigation plan addressing the following elements must be approved ; : es
by the director or his designee. The construction mitigation plan shalt address the following . ; ; ; ne ‘

alements: (Please note: all elements may not apply to each individual project. There may
also be additional elements, unique to the project that involve public health and safety
issues}. :

1. Hours of operation, The hours of operation are 7:30 AM to 6:00 PM, Monday thru
Saturday, and 9:00 AM to 6:00 PM on Sunday. Upon a clear and convincing showing
by the applicant that a waiver to the hours of operation is necessary and will not
jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare, the director may modify hours of ; :
operation through the building permit. Exclusively indoor construction beyond the : :
hours of operation listed above in this subsection shall be exempt from such hours
of operation unless the director determines that such extended hours will adversely ,
impact the surrounding neighborhood. :

2. Parking. Construction vehicle parking shalt ba restricted at construction sites so as ; ; ;
to not block reasonable public and safety vehicle access along the street and - —
sidewalks, Within pald and permit only areas, an approved parking plan must be
obtained from the Public Works Department. - . ,

3. Deliveries. Deliveries of ali materials and supplies may be regulated as to time ce
{hours of operation) and routing. -

4. Stockpiling & staging. In order to reduce the number of delivery trips to construction ; a, . 7
sites, the stockpiling of materials on site may be required. , .

5, Construction phasing. Due to narrow streets, topography, small lot configuration, Toe ; ae
traffic circulation, weather, construction parking and material staging problems, 7 . an :
some projects may be required to be phased. In cases where phasing is deemed - oe :
necessary, the first project to receive a building permit shall have priority, however, a a an oe
the building official shall have authority to phase projects as necessary to assure “ SS
efficient, timely and safe construction. - a oo oo.

6. Trash management and recycling of materials. Construction sites shall provide ee oe
adequate storage and a program for trash removal. Construction material recycling : / oe
bins are encouraged on sites with adequate room for separation of materials. - - ; a Ts

7. Controlof dust & mud. A program for the control dust or other airborne debris shall : : ae ;
be required. Provisions must be made to prevent the tracking of mud on streets and ; ; L - ,
{twill be required to remove any such mud daily. Placing gravel in the egress and 7 . ae
ingress areas to a job site is one method to control mud and dust problems. : oo - : . ee

8. Noise. Any noise above 65 decibels violates the noise ordinance, as well as any Too. we eo :
excassive or unusually loud noise that is plainly audible beyond the property tine or oe a ne
outside the hours of operation, So

9, Grading and excavation. Because of the truck hauling involved in grading and oe . . ;
excavation, restrictions on trucking routes as well as the hours of operation may be ; :
nacessary to mitigate the adverse impacts from such operations. Destination and ; : ; ne .
total cubic yards of dirt shall be addressed. Any excavation six feet (1.8 m) or more : eo ; . a

in depth shall be protected from falling hazards by guardrail roofs, systems, fences,
or barricades.
10. Temporary lighting. An approved temporary lighting plan must be obtained from the
Planning Department if any exterior temporary lighting is necessary for construction.
11. Construction sign. A sign shall be posted in a location where the sign is readable
from the street or driveway. The sign shall not exceed 12 square feet in size and six
feet in height. The lettering shall not exceed four inches in height. Information on the
sign shallinclude:
a) Name, address and phone number of the contractor
b) Name, address and phone number of the person responsible for the project
c) Name and phone number of the party to call in case of an emergency
N. Private swimming pools.
, 648ine! listed ; , ,
, 150 eek teite-dael Le inming: P , :
lot coverage standards for accessory structures or primary structures in the
2. Permit. It shall be unlawful for any person to construct, alter or repair a private
swimming pool within the city without first having secured a permit from the
building official. An application for this permit shall be made on such forms as may
be furnished by the city, and shall be accompanied by complete plans and
specifications for the private swimming pool, including the type and location thereof
with respect to the boundary lines of the land of the applicant. The applicant shall
pay the fees established for such permit.
O. Temporary buildings.
1. Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work shall be require to
obtain a permit from the CBO.
2. Temporary buildings must be removed upon completion or abandonment of the
construction work.

3. if such buildings are not removed within 90 days upon completion of construction
and 30 days after notice, the buildings will be removed by the city at the expense of
the owner.
P. Residential corner lot rear setback in R-1 zones. Corner lots in the R-1-6, R-1-8, R-1-10 and
R-1-15 residential single family zones shalt maintain a minimum rear setback of 15 feet for .
main structures; provided, however, that any portion of a main structure that is located :
closer than 20 feet from the rear lot line may not exceed 20 feet in height. : ,
1. Residential carports. Residential carports shall be subject to the same height, mo
setback, placement, and lot coverage standards for either attached or accessory ; : ;
structures in the underlying residential zone, depending on whether the carport is -
attached to the main building or constructed as an accessory structure. re
2. Non-residential carports. : ° : ; .

a) Allnon-residentiat carports should be architecturally similar to the primary ; : : ;
structure on the property. : ;

b) Non-residential carports may not exceed 20 feet in height. ; ; :

c) Non-residential carports which are attached to the primary building shall ne mo -
maintain the same setbacks as are required in the underlying zone for the ; ee ; ; ;
primary building. . a me

d) Non-residential carports which are detached from the primary buildingshall =~ . sO ; ;
maintain the following setbacks: Lo : - a :

1. lf adjacent land is zoned non-residential, a non-residential carport os ce De
shall be Located in the rear of the primary building(s), at least six feet , oo 0 on ,
away from the primary building(s), and shall maintain a minimum co ae : .
setback from side and rear property lines of three feet. - Be a
2. If adjacent land is zoned residential, a non-residential carport shall ; 4 ; a.
be located in the rear of the primary building(s), at least six feet away : . ; °
from the primary buitding(s), and shalt maintain minimum setbacks : ° Lo.
from side and rear property lines which is required for detached i oo a
structures in the adjacent residential zone. re :
3. Anynon-residential carport located nearer than five feet from any a oS i Te
property line must install a one-hour rated fire wall. : ae i
4, Detached non-residential carports may be permitted in the side or oO a ;
front yard of non-residential properties as approved by the ARC i : 7
following demonstration by the applicant that this configuration : ; :
accomplishes the purposes of the city's design guidelines. a
1

R._ Miscellaneous Yard Elements
1. Flagpoles
< | Formatted
2. Playgrounds
.
3. Gazebos and Pergolas
placement, and lot coverage standards for either attached or accessory
structures in the underlying zone, depending on whether the earpertgazebo
Z hed to ti in buildi "
structure.
4. Tree Houses
Tree hous ibe subject to the same i
i bac airt if ; bj buildi
separation or lot coverage standards. The height of the structure is
‘fi ae he higt aa
19.76.050 Miscellaneous
E. General height and design regulations for walls, fences and retaining walls.
1. Definitions. In this Subsection (E):

1. “Fence” means a barrier of any material or combination of materials erected to
enclose, screen or separate areas.

2. “Fence height” means that a fence or wall shall be measured from the adjacent
existing natural grade at the base of the fence or wall, to the top edge of the fence or
wall.

3. “Fences atop walls” means that if a fence is atop a wall, the total height shall be
measured from the base of the wall to the top of the fence.

4. “Neighbor consent” means that all neighbors abutting the proposed walVfence will
be required to provide written consent for retaining wall/fence height above eight
feet up to 12 feet.

5. “Retaining wall” means a structure that is designed and constructed to stabilize two
generally horizontal surfaces which are vertically displaced, and which shall be
either a landscape retaining wall or structural retaining wall.

2. Permitted height. No fence, wall, hedge, retaining wall or vertical combination of these
(hereinafter “fence”) may be erected to a height which exceeds the following requirements:

1. Front yard. Four feet. Lots that are at least one acre in size and have only one
primary residence may erect a fence up to six feet in height. A fence may be erected
up to six feet in height along a side lot line in the front yard of a key lot, so long as it
abuts the rear lot line of an adjacent lot. Fences/walls in these locations shall not be
eligible for a wall height extension.

2. Side and rear yards. Six feet.

3.
provision shall apply.

3. Conditional use. Fences in the side and rear yards may be erected to a maximum height of
eight feet as a conditional use upon a clear and convincing showing by the property owner ;
in accordance with Subsections (a) and (b) below:

1. The existence of unique or special circumstances of a natural, material and adverse
nature relating to the property that will be substantially minimized or eliminated by
the increased height of the requested fence; and

2. That erection of such a fence is the most reasonable solution under the
circumstances. Any such conditional use permit may be granted by the director or
his designee following an administrative hearing preceded by all required
notifications. A building permit shall be required for all fences approved as a
conditional use.

3. Innocase shalla conditional use permit be granted for a wall height extension in the
front yard of a property, including key lots.

4. Neighbor consent. Side and rear yard fences may exceed eight feet in height to a maximum
height of 12 feet in cases where the applicant has neighbor consent, and has received
conditional use approval in accordance with Subsection 19.76.050(E)(3).

5. Terracing. If a taller retaining wall is necessitated by an engineering requirement as
determined by the city engineer, the retaining wall may be terraced. Terracing shall be
limited to three tiers. The horizontal width of the terrace between any two wall sections
above existing grade shall be at least ten feet. Terraces created between retaining walls
shall be landscaped or revegetated (see diagram).

6. Exceptions. Fences, walls, hedges, retaining walls or any vertical combination thereof in the
side or rear yard may be constructed to a maximum height of 12 feet without neighbor
consent and conditional use approval if the fence is adjacent to property located in a
commercial zone or adjacent to a public street.

7. Chain link fences. Chain link fences which are not vinyl coated or galvanized shall not be
allowed.
8. Fences, etc. atop retaining walls. Fences and non-retaining walls shall not be constructed
on top of a retaining wall unless the fence and/or non-retaining wall is set back 18 inches for
every one foot of vertical height above six feet high. In no circumstance shall the
combination of the retaining wall and fence and/or non-retaining wall exceed eight feet
without a separation of at least three feet.
8-9. Permit required. A building permit shall be required for any retaining wall over four
Table 1
Maximum Residential Fence/Wall Height
oo
lots
ei Side and rear yards Conditional Use
Side and rear yards Conditional Use with Neighbor Consent

Historic Preservation Proposed Changes
Earlier in 2024, an update was made to Title 15 of city code (“Buildings and Construction”) to adopt
stricter penalties for illegal demolition of historic structures. To support these edits to Title 15, staff
proposes several minor edits to Title 19 of city code (“Zoning”), in order to cross reference both
codes. These edits are tracked below in blue.
Title 19 - Zoning
19.86 - Historic Preservation
| 1. Asalso provided in Chapter 15.15, “Demolition,” a conditional use permit is required for any
modifications to a historic site or structure, including modifications to the landscaping,
fencing or appearance of any lot, or demolition, construction, alteration, relocation,
improvement or conversion of a historic site.
2. Applications for a conditional use permit on a historic site shall be made in the manner and
subject to the procedures and requirements set forth in Chapter 19.84, “Conditional Uses.”
To the extent that the requirements of this chapter and Chapter 19.84, “Conditional Uses,”
are inconsistent, the requirements of this chapter shall prevail.
19.86.070 Interpretation Of Chapter
This chapter does not guarantee the right of any person, form or corporation to any provision of this
chapter. Further, any demolition of an historic site also must comply with the requirements of Chapter | Formatted: Font: Aptos, 11 pt, Font color: Auto |
