COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 385-D
AN ORDINANCE DENYING THE RE-ZONE OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED AT 3526 EAST
FORT UNION BLVD. FROM R-1-8 (RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY) TO RO-ZC

(RESIDENTIAL OFFICE WITH ZONING CONDITIONS) AND AMENDING THE ZONING MAP

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 e¢ seg., as amended (the “Ac?’), provides that each municipality may enact aland
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission’s recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the city; and

WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the city council (the “Counci?’) of the city of Cottonwood
Heights (the “City”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City’s code of ordinances (the “Code”’); and

WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 25, the Council also adopted a zoning map for
the City (the “Zoning Map’); and

WHEREAS, on 21 June 2022 the City’s planning commission (the “Planning
Commission’) held a public hearing on an application by Adam Nash requesting the re-zone of a
.85 acre parcel of real property located at 3526 East Fort Union Blvd. (the “Property”) from R-1-
8 (Residential Single Family) to RO-ZC (Residential Office with Zoning Conditions), at which
time all interested parties were given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment
concerning the proposed re-zone; and

WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

WHEREAS, on 21 June 2022, the Planning Commission recommended approval of such
proposed re-zone of the Property, and forwarded such recommendation of approval to the Council
for final action; and

WHEREAS, after taking additional public input, on 5 July 2022 the Council met in regular
meeting to consider, among other things, such proposed re-zone of the Property; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings where such proposed re-
zone was discussed, and recommendations of City staff, the Council has determined that it is in
the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to deny re-zoning the
Property as specified below, notwithstanding the Planning Commission’s recommendation of
approval;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Denial of Re-zone to RO-ZC. The Council hereby denies re-zoning the
Property from R-1-8 (Residential Single Family) to RO-ZC (Residential Office with Zoning
Conditions) based on, among other findings expressed by the Council in its 5 July 2022 public
meeting, including the incompatibility of the requested zoning designation with the zoning
designation of certain of the surrounding properties under the current zoning map.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 385-D, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 5" day of July 2022.

ATTEST: AA COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
POD He, ,
By. LV Sie/C_ em. \By 70 *b |< Pty
Paula Me ear, Recorder apes =) 8: | -Michhel T. Weichers, Mayor
2005 f
“Dosa Dy OTING:
rye
Michael T. Weichers Yea X_ Nay ___
Douglas Petersen Yea < Nay
J. Scott Bracken Yea ~ Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea _X_Nay___
Ellen Birrell Yeay< Nay
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 5‘ day of July 2022.
{ Yr
POSTED this |g day of July 2022.
2
