                                 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

                                      ORDINANCE No. 345

     AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE RE-ZONE OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED AT
     6632 SOUTH HIGHLAND DRIVE FROM R-1-8 (RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY)
         TO RO (RESIDENTIAL OFFICE) AND AMENDING THE ZONING MAP

       WHEREAS, the "Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act," UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 et seq., as amended (the "Act"), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality's planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality's legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission's recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

       WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality's legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the city; and

       WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the city council (the "Council") of the city of Cottonwood
Heights (the "City") enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City's code of ordinances (the "Code"); and

        WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 25, the Council also adopted a zoning map for
the City (the "Zoning Map"); and

        WHEREAS, on 2 September 2020 the City's planning commission (the "Planning
Commission") held a public hearing on an application by Thurmond Dressen (on behalf of Joe
Coccigmiglio) requesting the re-zone of a .23 acre parcel of real property located at 6632 South
Highland Drive (the "Property") from R-1-8 (Residential Single Family) to RO (Residential
Office), at which time all interested parties were given the opportunity to provide written or oral
comment concerning the proposed re-zone; and

       WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

       WHEREAS, on 2 September 2020, the Planning Commission recommended approval of
such proposed re-zone of the Property, and forwarded such recommendation of approval to the
Council for final action; and

        WHEREAS, after taking additional public input, on 6 October 2020 the Council met in
regular meeting to consider, among other things, such proposed re-zone of the Property; and

        WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings where such proposed re-
zone was discussed, and recommendations of City staff, the Council has determined that it is in
the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve re-zoning
the Property as specified below;
       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

       Section 1.     Re-wne to RO. The Council hereby re-zones the Property from R-1-8
(Residential Single Family) to RO (Residential Office).

       Section 2.      Adoption ofAmended Zo11i11.gMap. The Council hereby amends the City's
zoning map to reflect the re-zone of the Property effected by this Ordinance and hereby adopts the
amended zoning map that is attached as an exhibit hereto as the City's current zoning map for the
Property.

        Section 3.     Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

        Section 4.    Severabilitv. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

         Section 5.     Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

        Section 6.      Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 345, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City's recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

       PASSED AND APPROVED this 6th day of October 2020.

ATTEST:                                      COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL


B
                                                    . Scott Bracken, Mayor Pro Tempore



                                             Michael J. Peterson            Yea_ Nay _         /lb~
                                             Douglas Petersen               Yea X Nay_
                                             J. Scott Bracken               Yeai.X_ Nay_
                                             Tali C. Bruce                  Yea X Nay_
                                             Christine Watson Mikell        Yea)'{,_Nay_

       DEPOSITED in the Recorder's office this 6th day of October 2020.
                       4"'
       POSTED this 1 day of October 2020.




                                                2
  Current Zoning Designation        Proposed Zoning Desipation

R-1-8 (Residential Single-Family)     RO (Residential Office)




             cg




                       .
               ID

               IO

               AO
