COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 358
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A FINAL BUDGET FOR THE PERIOD
OF 1 JULY 2021 THROUGH 30 JUNE 2022; MAKING
APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE SUPPORT OF THE CITY OF
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS FOR SUCH PERIOD; AND
DETERMINING THE RATE OF TAX AND LEVYING TAXES
UPON ALL REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY WITHIN
THE CITY OF COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
WHEREAS, the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for Utah Cities (the “Acf’) provides,
among other things, that prior to adoption by a city’s governing body of a municipal budget, the
city’s mayor or other budget officer shall propose a tentative budget which shall be reviewed,
considered and tentatively adopted by the governing body in open meeting, whereupon (a) the
governing body shall establish the time and place of a public hearing to consider the adoption of
the tentative budget; (b) the tentative budget shall be a public record in the office of the city’s
recorder available for public inspection for a period of at least ten days prior to the adoption of a
final budget; (c) notice of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city, on the home page of the city's website, and on the Utah public notice website
at least seven days prior to the public hearing; and (d) the public hearing shall be held; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §10-6-133(1), before June 22 of each year
(or August 17 in the case of certain property tax rate increases), the governing body of a Utah
municipality, at a regular or special meeting called for that purpose, shall by ordinance or
resolution set the real and personal property tax levy for realty within such city; and
WHEREAS, at a prior meeting of the city council (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”), Scott Jurges, the City’s budget officer (the “Budget Officer’),
filed with the Council (a) a tentative budget for the City for the period of 1 July 2021 through 30
June 2022, and (b) an accompanying budget message as required by the Act; and
WHEREAS, that budget (the “Budger’) was reviewed, considered and tentatively
adopted by the Council on 4 May 2021 pursuant to its authority under UTAH CODE ANN. §10-6-
118; and
WHEREAS, from and after 4 May 2021, a copy of the Budget has been available for
public inspection in the office of the City’s recorder; and
WHEREAS, the Council set 7:00 p.m. on 15 June 2021 at 2277 East Bengal Blvd.,
Cottonwood Heights, Utah as the time and place of a public hearing regarding adoption of the
Budget; and
WHEREAS, notice of the public hearing concerning the Budget was timely published
and posted as required by statute; and

WHEREAS, the public hearing was held beginning at approximately 7:00 p.m. on 15
June 2021 at 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah to receive public comment on
the Budget as set forth in the published notice; and

WHEREAS, at the public hearing, all interested persons were given an opportunity to be
heard; and

WHEREAS, the City has published the necessary notice and held the public hearing
required prior to adopting the proposed property tax rate and setting the property tax levy; and

| WHEREAS, on 15 June 2021, the Council met in regular session to consider, among

other things, approving the Budget as proposed; and

WHEREAS, it is the intent and desire of the Council to comply with all applicable laws
regarding adoption of the Budget, the adoption of a property tax rate and the levying of property
taxes; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council finds that it has satisfied all legal
requirements to adopt the Budget, adopt a tax rate and levy property taxes, and that it is in the best
interests of the citizens of the City to adopt the Budget presented at the 15 June 2021 public hearing
(as heretofore modified by the Budget Officer under Council direction, including the amendments
specified on any exhibits that are attached to this Ordinance) as the final budget for the City for
the period in question, to determine the rate of property tax and to levy taxes upon all real and
personal property within the City;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Cottonwood Heights city council as
follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Budget.

A. The Budget presented at the 15 June 2021 public hearing (as heretofore
modified by the Budget Officer under Council direction, including the amendments specified on
any exhibits that are attached to this Ordinance) be, and hereby are, appropriated for the corporate
purposes and objects of the City for the fiscal year in question, and hereby are adopted as the City’s
final budget for the period of 1 July 2021 through 30 June 2022, subject to amendment.

B. Copies of the final Budget adopted hereby shall be certified and filed with
the Utah State Auditor, as appropriate, and shall be available for public inspection during regular
business hours at the City’s business offices.

C. The City’s manager and other officers are hereby directed to take any other
necessary actions pertinent to the adoption of the Budget, including, without limitation, such
notification, reporting and publishing as may be required by applicable law.

D. Amounts in excess of the City’s cash requirements shall be deposited in .
the investment fund maintained by the state treasurer under the State Money Management Act,
UTAH CODE ANN. §51-7-1 et seq.

2

Section 2. Property Tax Rate and Levy.

A, For the purpose of defraying the necessary and proper expenses of the City
and for maintaining the government thereof, it is hereby determined that a general property tax
shall be levied against the taxable value of all real and personal property within the City. For the
period from 1 July 2021 through 30 June 2022, such general property tax on all real and personal

| property within the City shall be set at the certified tax rate, being 0.001740.

B. For the period from 1 July 2021 thought 30 June 2022, there is hereby
levied upon all taxable real and personal property within the City a general property tax at the same
rate as set forth above on the taxable value of said property, to provide revenue for the City’s
general fund and for general City purposes.

S The City’s manager and other officers are hereby directed to take any other
necessary actions pertinent to the setting of the general property tax rate and levy of the property
tax, including, without limitation, notification to the Salt Lake County Auditor, the Utah State Tax
Commission, and such other notification, reporting and publishing as may be required by
applicable law.

Section 3. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of
the City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before
or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 4. Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 5. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 6. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 358, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 15" day of June 2021.
ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HIGH fy CyTY COUNCIL
; py ood HEIGw . LH
= Diihny, ONG a =
Paula M lek r, Recorder, a f itt] |b. Michael J. Petersoi; Mayor
ca h
3

VOTING:
Michael J. Peterson Yea MN ay.
Douglas Petersen Yea “Nay ___
J. Scott Bracken Wea Nay ___
Tali C. Bruce Yea Nay
Christine Watson Mikell Wea “Nay
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 15" day of June 2021.
POSTED this __ day of June 2021.
4

This is the screenshot of the Tax Rate entry on June 16, 2021 @ 6PM. Entered by Scott Jurges
a on P t
— Cernrieo Tax Rares
Beet 2021 v Bee 13 SALTLAKE =v Baie 3025 COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY b4 = Accounting Cycle: Fiscal Year
OT TT
pproved *OK to Print* pproved
Proposed Tax Rate Value: $ 4,597 ,137,284
Budgeted Revenue / Proposed Tax Rate Value = Proposed Tax Rate
(1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) (7) (8) (9) (10) (11) (12) (13)
Calculated Auditor's Auditor's Final
Budget Election Voted Utah Maximum Certified Certified Certified Proposed Budgeted Final Budgeted
Code Budget Name Date Rate Limit Annotated Code By Law Tax Rate Tax Rate Rate Revenue Tax Rate Revenue Tax Rate Revenue
Total Tax Rate 0.001740 0.001740 7,999,019 0.001740 7,999,019 0.001740 7,999,019
NOTES:
