COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 406
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A SCHEDULE FOR REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE
CiTy COUNCIL, THE PLANNING COMMISSION, THE ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW
COMMISSION, AND CERTAIN ADVISORY COMMITTEES FOR 2024

WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §52-4-202 provides that any public body which holds
regular meetings that are scheduled in advance over the course of a year shall give public notice
at least once each year of its annual meeting schedule; and ,

WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-502 provides that the governing body ofa city shall,
by ordinance, prescribe the time and place for holding its regular meetings, which shall be held at
least once each month; and

WHEREAS, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
“City”) desires to establish a regular meeting schedule for 2024 for the Council, as required by
statute; and

WHEREAS, the Council also desires to establish regular meeting schedules for 2024 for
the City’s Planning Commission, its Architectural Review Commission, its Parks, Trails and Open
Space Committee, its Arts Council, and its Historic Committee;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Regular Meeting Schedule for 2024. For 2024, regular meetings of the
City’s Council, its Planning Commission, its Architectural Review Commission, its Parks, Trails
and Open Space Committee, its Arts Council and its Historic Committee shall be held as follows:

(a) Council, The Council’s meetings will occur on the first and third Tuesdays
of each calendar month. Council work sessions will begin at 4:00 p.m., will adjourn for a Council
business meeting beginning at 7:00 p.m., and then will re-convene (if necessary to complete the
agenda items) following the business meeting. All business meetings of the Council will occur in
the council chambers (the “Council Chambers’’) of the City’s city hall (“City Hall”) at 2277 East
Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah, and all work sessions of the Council will occur in the
council work room (the “Council Work Room”) of City Hall.

(b) Planning Commission. The Planning Commission’s business meetings will
occur in the Council Chambers on the first Wednesday of each calendar month and also on the
third Wednesday of January, April, July and October, beginning at 6:00 p.m. The Planning
Commission’s work meetings will occur in the Council Work Room immediately prior to its
business meetings, commencing at 5:00 p.m.

(c) Architectural Review Commission. The Architectural Review ,
Commission’s business meetings will occur as needed on the fourth Thursday of January-October,

|
!
|
inclusive, and on the third Thursday of November and December, as needed, Each meeting shall .
begin at 6:00 p.m. in the Council Work Room.
(d) Parks, Trails and Open Space Committee. The Parks, Trails and Open
Space Committee’s meetings will occur in the Council Work Room on the fourth Wednesday of
January-June and August-October, inclusive, on the fifth Wednesday of July, and on the third
Thursday of November-December, inclusive, commencing at 6:00 p.m.
(e) Arts Council. The Arts Council’s meetings will occur in the planning :
conference room of City Hall on the first Wednesday of each month, commencing at 5:30 p.m. :
(f) Historic Committee. The Historic Committee’s meetings will occur in the
administrative conference room of City Hall on the second Wednesday of each month,
commencing at 5:30 p.m.
(g) Land Use Appeals Hearings. Land use appeals hearings will occur in the
Council Work Room on the second Thursday of each month except February and August, when
the hearing will occur on the third Thursday, commencing at 6:00 p.m.
Section 2. Reservations of Rights to Modify Meeting Schedules, Hold Electronic
Meetings, Etc. Each of the Council, the Planning Commission, the Architectural Review
Commission, the Parks, Trails and Open Space Committee, the Arts Council, the Historic
Committee and the City’s other public bodies has and reserves the right to change the time, date
and/or location of any of its meetings upon at least 24 hours’ prior public notice, or to cancel any
of such meetings or to hold special meetings as circumstances may warrant.
Section 3. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.
Section 4. Severability. All parts of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’’) are severable,
and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held
to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph,
clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of
this Ordinance.
Section 5, Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.
Section 6. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 389, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute. .
PASSED AND APPROVED this 5" day of December 2023. .
2 1

ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
By \Laalh < ‘& Cre é. ‘(le
Paula Melga RF corderg| ~ Ries! Pen : ichael T. Weichers, Mayor
BS oN £005
- Sabi ING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea a Nay
Matt Holton Yea $¢ Nay __
J. Scott Bracken YeayX< Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea“ Nay __
Ellen Birrell Yea Nay __
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 5 day of December 2023.
POSTED this (o day of December 2023.
3
