COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS |
ORDINANCE NO. 373
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING A SCHEDULE FOR REGULAR MEETINGS OF THE
CiTy COUNCIL, THE PLANNING COMMISSION, THE ARCHITECTURAL REVIEW |
COMMISSION, AND CERTAIN ADVISORY COMMITTEES FOR 2022
WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §52-4-202 provides that any public body which holds
regular meetings that are scheduled in advance over the course of a year shall give public notice
at least once each year of its annual meeting schedule; and
WHEREAS, UTAH CoDE ANN. §10-3-502 provides that the governing body of a city shall,
by ordinance, prescribe the time and place for holding its regular meetings, which shall be held at
least once each month; and
WHEREAS, the city council (the “Council’”) of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
“City”) desires to establish a regular meeting schedule for 2022 for the Council, as required by
statute; and
WHEREAS, the Council also desires to establish regular meeting schedules for 2022 for
the City’s Planning Commission, its Architectural Review Commission, its Parks, Trails and Open
Space Committee, its Arts Council, and its Historic Committee;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:
Section 1. Regular Meeting Schedule for 2022. For 2022, regular meetings of the
City’s Council, its Planning Commission, its Architectural Review Commission, and its Parks,
Trails and Open Space Committee shall be held as follows:
(a) Council. The Council’s meetings will occur on the first and third Tuesdays
of each calendar month. Council work sessions will begin at 5:00 p.m., will adjourn for a Council
business meeting beginning at 7:00 p.m., and then will re-convene (if necessary to complete the
agenda items) following the business meeting. All business meetings of the Council will occur in
the council chambers (the “Council Chambers’) of the City’s city hall (“City Half’) at 2277 East .
Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah, and all work sessions of the Council will occur in the
council work room (the “Council Work Room”) of City Hall.
(b) Planning Commission. The Planning Commission’s business meetings will
occur in the Council Chambers on the first Wednesday of each calendar month and also on the
third Wednesday of January, April, July and October, beginning at 6:00 p.m. The Planning
Commission’s work meetings will occur in the Council Work Room immediately prior to its
business meetings, commencing at 5:00 p.m.
|

(c) Architectural Review Commission. The Architectural Review |
Commission’s business meetings will occur on the fourth Thursdays of January-October and
December, and the third Thursday of November. Each meeting shall begin at 6:00 p.m. in the
Council Work Room.

(d) Parks, Trails and Open Space Committee. The Parks, Trails and Open
Space Committee’s meetings will occur in the Council Work Room on the fourth Wednesday of
January-November, inclusive, commencing at 6:00 p.m. .

{e) Arts Council. The Arts Council’s meetings will occur in the planning
department conference room of City Hall on the first Wednesday of each month, commencing at
6:00 p.m.

(f) Historic Committee. The Historic Committee’s meetings will occur in the
administrative conference room of City Hall on the second Wednesday of each month,
commencing at 5:30 p.m.

Section 2. Reservations of Rights to Modify Meeting Schedules, Hold Electronic
Meetings, Etc, Each of the Council, the Planning Commission, the Architectural Review
Commission, the Parks, Trails and Open Space Committee, the Arts Council, the Historic
Committee and the City’s other public bodies has and reserves the right to change the time, date
and/or location of any of its meetings upon at least 24 hours’ prior public notice, or to cancel any
of such meetings or to hold special meetings as circumstances may warrant. Further,
notwithstanding the physical meeting locations specified above, each of the City’s public bodies
has and reserves the right to hold its meetings electronically without an anchor location during the
pendency of the COVID-19 pandemic or for any other valid reason under UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-
207(4) or other applicable law.

Section 3. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 4. Severability. All parts of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”) are severable,
and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held
to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph,
clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of
this Ordinance,

Section 5. Repeater. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 6. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 373, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 14" day of December 2021.

2

ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HEIGHYS CITY COUNCIL
By | MY SE @i%
Paula Melg Ar; ecordér’\ “7 fis , Michael J. Pgterson, Mayor
2005 AY
Ae OTING:
Michael J. Peterson Yea A Kay __
Doug Petersen "Yea ral Nay
J. Scott Bracken Yea “ Nay ___
Tali C. Bruce Yea Bpdont eye
Christine Watson Mikell "Yea ¥_ Nay
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 14" day of December 2021.
POSTED this \Sday of December 2021.
3
