COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS |
ORDINANCE NO, 371
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A PARKS, TRAILS AND OPEN SPACE
MASTER PLAN ELEMENT OF THE CITY’S GENERAL PLAN
WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 ef seg., as amended (the “Ac?”), provides that each municipality shall prepare
and adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan; and
WHEREAS, the Act requires the municipality’s planning commission to prepare the
general plan and submit it to the municipality’s legislative body; and
WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt and amend the general plan; and
WHEREAS, on 26 July 2005, following full compliance with the procedures for
formulation, public hearing and recommendation specified in UTAH CODE ANN. §§10-9a-401
through -404, the city council (the “Council” of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) enacted
its Ordinance No. 24 adopting a general plan (with all previous amendments, the “General Plan”)
for the City; and
WHEREAS, as authorized by statute, the General Plan includes various topical “elements”
or divisions; and
WHEREAS, the City’ planning staff and its planning commission (the ‘Planning
Commission”) have formulated a master plan for parks, trails and open space in the City (the
“Master Plan’) to serve as a standalone comprehensive document that effectuates and fulfills
various goals and objectives of the General Plan by adopting policies to help guide the future
development and implementation of parks, trails and open space elements and improvements in
the City; and
WHEREAS, following all required notices, one or more public hearings were held before
the Planning Commission concerning the proposed Master Plan, where citizens were given the
opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the Master Plan; and
WHEREAS, a photocopy of the Master Plan is attached hereto and is incorporated herein by
this reference; and
WHEREAS, following the public hearing(s), the Planning Commission voted to
recommend that the Council approve the Master Plan, and thereafter recommended that the
Council approve and adopt the Master Plan; and
WHEREAS, thereafter, the Council solicited and received additional public comment

ATTEST: pnt ~“\.g COTTONWOOD/HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
es oP BEICHy,. a
\ J on eS (Ni lbs
Paula Melgal , Record a Uh wd |). Michae 5. Heterson, Mayor
Conran

VOTING:
Michael J. Peterson Yea sé Nay
Douglas Petersen “Yea 7 Nay a
J. Scott Bracken "Yea Ps Nay
Tali C. Bruce Yea Nay. avousesD
Christine Watson Mikell Yea___— Nay HeuKD

DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 16" day of November 2021.

POSTED this \"tday of November 2021.

3

Coal Heights
City between the canyons
Eottonwood meights
PARKS) HRAIES & OPRENISPACE
7 lias J
MASTER'PLAN
dee a ea ping Stat eel A macct fie fai ie eee, We > tee me to
_ Hee Se Mie = ~ ts = os Bs | :
F 4 ns 4 aS i ie — ee: teSee (eee eee oe _ : < |
es en 4 gre com - © ms BY . ; es ti ei | (_— ie. © “ian tw Oras
é abe 2 rs i — : SN fy — ; a i, uti . 4 . ~ pe a i \ &
. = bil . 7 = ME . ‘ a ie) by eeend|
/ (oe a a ‘ Yr) ~ oe i’ : 2 a - — : :
y Me] ' J ” t * Dib . ves ; © . -
ee HG RE ae
= - ae: an a 3) cog x , P
g ie — =e 4 2 i me « pce a
ee t9 te} Tans “ « F ry a 7, ~ Fi a

Table of Contents
Acknowledgements iii
EUeace ed CIS TANG, ccscncncnspnecensnonexereqseonnmepannnavynannermmnnsonanaansantsrsianniestselilhistiisainiilani Csi aks tehiaiobeas Raab aias cidciamaaaas aM
Planititvigg COMMISSION esscsisissssssisesianssscarr cee eccesvascasinicsasecuacecacrunsssassasnsivatseusesustnosensasinauvediéiasisaonnsmnwemssasebsanesneanconsoneas Ul
Parks, Tralis;:and Open Space Committee: isis. ccsissssimnecszoncassissocsccnonnckcaacnnnn Rea
Planning Team sugcaesctisa ict UCR TIE enn ees RELI TRERAURNT LIRR ECTRECrOREERTRITLFERET RE OREN ERNIE ERR aNEReRNT
Introduction 3
Executive Summary 4
Background 6
Open Space Timeline.........s.sssssssssssessssesssssvsssvesssssssensessseesssessnsennessneesucesnsssueaneceneesannaneessesassssenatsssarsvarsnnasnessnecsnessasssosssyes O
Existing Long-Range Plans «.....csscs.ssscessscsssvesssrveesetsesncssssassassssenssnesasssssesesnenssuustsesvensensssesscsnsesensenenonssosoncensossoncencatenerere E
Cornu ity: Siren bah isis siscsisas cs esisesinacsiscnescsixannionnnsienandsnniovibsbas ons asacadee RNa ase NaTaeS SIRS TS cata eNRASCuEREN ND
Public Engagement 15
Open Houses & Public Events...............:ssscsssssssssssessssssesssennssnsenesssssesscsussaeeneanenseeneenesnsssenssnsensnenanenssssssassnesssssssseenseneees 1D)
Recommendations 21
WASTE scsccissicis<scuinssannvecianitRLGT RARER EI NORTR ERR MITER Renna NEsneToEmeNNNT
BOMefits .......ceseseseccsscesossvsssvscsssenvesssasesassencacacecasscsssracsnensasseseensssssecsuenseasanoverenssssasenasnessosseessensssesaenssesaseanessaserecossessaseres De
SERUM ING, serv rnnennsnncossniansvspnsnsnnesbcisseveoesrncnsts cs cowsecaclea ciples gansdu sa bapuidbmeaanses sbdoei iesabiwi aa lsialliatasMeasasenosbbitibasadabeeasnaanen lM
extestliney Opeorn Sppatee nis sissisictissccisctssiiscdsnssaniiddnasasicbessitstonselinvodoiisinesnivonsiitinssansnesibelabiskaha con scasiontsanscaieateaeesciusessiatuanplaea ee
Naticind StANGAINS sncciiccnanmimmannrenenmancnme Em ETaEnTE Temp TEER
Future Open Space ...-....ssesssssssesesssnenssessenssssesseseenssesssnesussesnsassnsessssnsnsansesssansnsarensesscsnsncacnessnasacsesnsncentasensssnssssnssesesssses 2D
EXIStING TrallS,...--.----cocscesecssssssvesnssensreoosovnsvesossoescanseshoconsesssesisnsuneosbeasssneesoeanvesrnyessestnerssbsnonssanssansusneueansasesenssssoscosseoes OO
autres Wet esi AE ai cance ATI
Private Property Rights Acknowledgement ............sssssssssssssssssssecsssssesesesensssensenterssrerensstenstssneatensnsensnsenssestsntsaenensans OO
Trails Through Adjacent Jurisdictions........c.sssssssssecssssssssesesseeessnesseneesserasnensseenenesnnsareressenensesensncssesnssesensasssseeesses ee OO
PURI FTIG APGEG <enscmnseesoerzresersarreresnyrarnsoeonnassicheoiivessansdasensieanaseesiasanedeionsan beni ebatoui elaiiebauniinaesiabu silicate cenubacilcuae
Implementation 49
Open Space ACQUbsltO Mm siciccesicsssssssssicsussnsenssccacssossnansnasaisasconnsiovtesansuessesansesensqvennvenssorsanese sonaneseseesssuseceseuensessesseenvesemneers4O
Ftd UNGy SE ANOEOS oscwccceceseesecsexepsvercecesscersospemornensprveanuannenyensnerpansennennenenesnetananorennameenomanenneneneennrnersent atin @aAsthiiOeeaTE OT

Acknowledgements
Elected Officials Planning Team
¢ Michael J. Peterson, Mayor * Tim Tingey, City Manager
¢ Douglas Peterson, Council Member, District1 * Mike Johnson, Community and Economic
* Scott Bracken, Council Member, District 2 Development Director
¢ Tali Bruce, Council Member, District 3 ¢ Matthew Taylor, Senior Planner
* Christine Mikell, Council Member, District 4 ¢ Andrew Hulka, Senior Planner
¢ Samantha DeSeelhorst, Associate Planner &
Planning Commission Sustainability Analyst
» Christina Couns, crate ° Gabrielle Regenhardt, Assistant Planner
s doseovllen, Vice hair ¢ Melissa Blue, GIS Specialist
‘ ¢ Ben Wheeler, Planning Intern
* Craig Bevan . . :
: ¢ Michael Makris, Planning Intern
* lBSSIEA GAPEEN e Maverick Yeh, Intern
¢ Graig Griffin
* Dan Mills
* Doug Rhodes
¢ Sue Ryser
¢ Bob Wilde
¢ Lucy Anderson
¢ Jonathan Ebbeler
Parks, Trails, and Open Space
Committee
¢ Jennifer Follstad Shah, Chair
¢ Sarah Ricketts, Vice-Chair
¢« Ronna Cohen
¢ Erin Davis
« Matthew Dominesey
« Melissa Fields
¢ Greg Hilbig
¢ Ben Hill
¢ Bruce Jorgensen
* Roger Kehr
¢ Paula McFarland
* Dave McFerren
¢ Michael Menssen
* Kristy Morrison
¢ Chris Owens
* Greg Reid

Introduction

Foreword Vision Statement

The quality of life in Cottonwood Heights is The Cottonwood Heights Open Space Master

intrinsically bound to its history, location, and Plan envisions the city as a healthy and active

beauty. The “City Between the Canyons” builton | community that enjoys the natural and urban

the bench at the base of the Twin Peaks of the outdoor world, while improving environmental

Wasatch Range with its canyons access, striking and physical health and at the same time being

views, parks, and open spaces are essential to environmentally and fiscally responsible.

the character of our city. That character is why Execution of the plan is a part of achieving the

people come to Cottonwood Heights, stay in City’s sustainability goals, including:

Cottonwood Heights, and return to Cottonwood

Heights. That is why it is so important for us ¢ Improved air and water quality;

to plan and invest smartly to make sure that * Increased energy, fuel, and water

character is never lost as Cottonwood Heights conservation;

continues to thrive and grow. Great cities have ¢ Increased biodiversity and habitat;

progressive open space plans, and thanks to e Reduced infrastructure impacts;

the generous support of the City Council and ¢ Reduced heat from the urban heat island

the City Staff, Cottonwood Heights now joins effect; and

those ranks. It charts a course for ensuring that e Reduced light and noise trespass.

open space, parks, trails and our urban forest

continues to enhance the environmental, social, Plan Goals

and economic well-being of our city. The projected outcomes of this plan are:

—Mike Peterson, Mayor ¢ Consolidate goals and policies for parks,
open space, trails, and an urban forest into
one cohesive plan.

* Create a document that aids in the acquisition
of passive open space areas for conservation
and preservation.

>, = >. rea ¢ Coordinate open space and natural trails
~ = A ed 5 with parks, recreational facilities, area
ont pene ee ee neighborhoods and the built environment.

Be. +. OR . 2 eee! §=° Incorporate the collected information into

is <1. . Beh y? goals and implementation strategies to guide

. She ee ae the preservation of open space and improve
cm yt § the City’s natural trail system.
te r ~~ % : a
2 | Introduction Cottonwood Heights

eT ge PL oe
d hina ' 3 vy ‘i “J Y, th i oa : “ 2 ] J
we. tay Herr or oe ae
ear ae me . he Lita » bbe as ee
go SIS See TIEN oe SE i -s
mt Ne Sug a une ae capi est Pa
cA Se Set ee) ee
ea. Bes TT NGS Te a ce
a y +) Pay See Soe WC eee een
Legal Authority of the Plan amendment that it considers appropriate.” (see
Municipalities are required to prepare a General © UCA 10-9a-404)
Plan for the City that the Planning Commission
recommends to the City Council for approval. This Parks, Open Space, Trails and Urban
The Planning Commission is to recommend Forest Master Plan serves as a replacement
land use elements in that plan that designate to the Open Space and Parks element of the
“the proposed extent, general distribution, and General Plan of Cottonwood Heights. This plan
location of land for... recreation, open space, is an advisory guide for land use decisions (see
and other categories of public and private uses UCA 10-9a-405).
of land” as well as other land uses. Additionally,
general plans are required to provide for a “After the City Council has adopted a general
transportation element that includes “active plan, no street, park, or other public way, ground,
transportation facilities and other modes of place, or space, no publicly owned building or
transportation as the planning commission Structure, and no public utility, whether publicly
considers appropriate.” (see UCA 10-9a-403) or privately owned, may be constructed or
authorized until and unless it conforms to the
“The City Council may adopt, reject, or make current general plan.” (see UCA 10-9a-406)
any revisions to the proposed general plan or
i teem nmap mamma
Open Space Master Plan Introduction | 3

Executive Summary
The Parks, Trails, and Open Space Master Plan city and should be preserved to the extent
is an addendum to the Cottonwood Heights possible for recreational use and for wildlife
General Plan. It is intended to be an advisory habitat.
guide to provide recommendations for future
land use decisions in Cottonwood Heights. This Future Trails Summary:
plan does not approve any specific projects for Opportunities for future natural and urban
new parks, trails, or open space preservation. trails have been proposed throughout the city.
Individual projects will be considered as future Natural trails are typically unpaved with minimal
opportunities arise. The recommendations in this improvements, while urban trails generally
plan were informed by existing long-range plans include more formal walkways paved for use
and public comments from recent City open by walkers, families with strollers, cyclists, and
houses and surveys. people in wheelchairs. The new trail proposals
include:
Improving Existing Inventory
Cottonwood Heights residents love their parks, ¢ Cottonwood Heights (I-215) Trail
trails, and open space and want to see the ¢ Cottonwood Heights Loop
existing inventory maintained and improved. ¢ East Jordan Canal Trail
Residents want new amenities to be considered ¢ Fort Union Cycle Track
as existing parks are upgraded or as new parks ¢ Wasatch Boulevard Trail
are built. Some of the amenities residents would ¢ Bonneville Shoreline Trail
like to see include: an off-leash dog park, a ¢ Enchanted Valley Trail
mountain bike pump track, a frisbee golf course,
more pickleball courts, a stage for events and Planning Areas
music, and an all-abilities park. The plan includes new planning areas as a way
to help analyze the needs of neighborhoods
Future Parks, Trails, & Open Space throughout the city. The areas were created in
New parks, trails, and open space will be an effort to look at linking neighborhoods around
necessary to meet future demand as the city activity areas.
continues to grow at a rapid pace.
Implementation
Future Open Space Summary: The Implementation section of the plan includes
* Future redevelopment of commercial areas information on how the recommendations of this
in the city (e.g. along Fort Union Blvd., at plan can be prioritized and funded in the future.
the Old Mill, and at the Gravel Pit) should The recommended implementation methods are:
be designed in a way that incorporates
pedestrian walkways, public plazas, and ¢ City General Fund
greenspace. * Impact Fees
- New parks are planned at the Canyon Centre -° Bonds
development and the Ferguson Canyon ¢ Grants & Programs
Overflow parking area. ¢ Private Donations
* The foothills east of Wasatch Boulevard * Development & Redevelopment
are considered the scenic backdrop of the
NNN ——
4| Executive Summary Cottonwood Heights

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE
[ae Sy en Sea ee
Ee 5% ; he te pT Po} ri 3 x * 3 Ss ar. ; ’ - in
AD et er Sg St ‘4 ; ‘Gein
ree 7 . : . 4) . ats we +
oe " cathe . ; 7 . ae hl
~ 4 S x *. : ips \ aes
set es —_ - ‘ é f :
nae . : iW
rc ‘. %; = oes "i co > -
fae bat ~ * 5 Bs ; { Mey ail
| eee 727 * a 4 a ba ; f :#
ha ms i) Ras , a : oe
eet FN Waa. | ee
Re % ; whe SS i ; [—.) =o f “= . ; ihe i”
Ln te ‘ ge SS " =a
b ‘ a aie = 8 4
EES co thy oes Bn 5 Os f oo a
Teac dp i IOAN ie:
I 7 | : . A af 23 ; 2 Ss ee = 3 : m. a J A . ets _
cay ; % Ms , Lk eS e ~ meee 4 x
hel ie aati,
| , "ieee PR ee ftir See a SE
= * = ‘ ‘ a : - re \ ate : re : #
; sey erate ts . ‘ie et" Lape aes? b Ta Sa cag ar ein
" 7 P : }.. Be 7 7 : Lar ~~ (ae F+ . ° s :
| 0 i O25 al 2: ae tacks LAS Speman Lk <e lg) me ao
- Map Legend -
~ ‘ A
3) Existing Trailhead Points ey Planned Open Space Points Natural Trails SZ) Private,Proposed N
e==e Existing [LE] Public, Existing |
@) Existing Open Space Points Urban Trelis @ @ @ Proposed EZ] semi-Public, Existing JX
eee Eating Existing Open Space Planning areas \
R Planned Trailhead Points » == Potential Type, Status E=J cityBoundary
© © © Proposed EA Private, Existing
Sin nr
Open Space Master Plan Executive Summary | 5

Background
Open Space Timeline
Cottonwood Heights should be proud of the many Parks, Open Space, Trails and Forest
achievements made in the area. Achievements include:
¢ 1906: Wasatch National Forest established * 2019: Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan
* 1960: Willow Creek Country Club established adopted
* 1967: Cottonwood Heights Parks and * 2019: Dark Sky ordinance adopted
Recreation Service Area established * 2020: East Jordan Canal Trail, Phase 1 built
* 1971: First phase of the Cottonwood Heights * 2020: 15 Trees for 15 Years. Trees planted at
Recreation Center constructed the Cottonwood Heights Recreation Center
¢ 1978: Lone Peak Wilderness Area and City Hall to commemorate the City’s 15th
established anniversary
* 1984: Mount Olympus Wilderness Area ¢ 2020: Utah Open Lands’ campaign to
established preserve 27 acres of open space at the
* 1984: Twin Peaks Wilderness Area mouth of Little Cottonwood Canyon
established * 2020: Trees and Park Strip ordinance
* 1997: Old Mill Golf Course built adopted
* 2005: Sensitive Lands Ordinance adopted * 2020: Bonneville Shoreline Trail Access
* 2005: Established Safe Routes to School Master Plan adopted
Plan ™ ]
¢ 2005: Established Trip Hazard Plan
¢ 2006: City Entry monuments constructed
¢ 2008: Acquired open space funding to
prevent Wasatch Office from developing
the east side of Wasatch Boulevard and Lig em
preserved it as open space > =
* 2009: Ferguson Canyon Trailhead built ne b-.
* 2010: City acquires Golden Hills Park from ’ s
Salt Lake County
* 2010: Old Mill Park Bridge constructed and
other improvements made
¢ 2012: Mountview Park built
* 2012: Big Cottonwood Multi-Use Trail built i.
* 2014: Expanded Brighton/Butler Middle fields e he
and tennis courts Pa
* 2016: Bike and Trails Master Plan adopted ae ke
* 2017: Fort Union Corridor Plan adopted — Pe ag
* 2018: Required bike path construction in new Mee
developments Be [os =
* 2018: Knudsen Park (Holladay City) built es ae 5 !
* 2019: 30 Trees added to Mountview Park Peet. te
ee eT ee en
6 | Background Cottonwood Heights

Existing Long-Range Plans
Existing city, county, and regional long-range plans provide a strong foundation of policies and
recommendations related to the goals of this plan. One of the objectives of this plan is to consolidate
existing and proposed open space goals and recommendations into one cohesive plan.
Cottonwood Heights General Plan Key Elements:
(2005) * Preserve and protect natural open spaces
and view corridors
* Maintain high quality parks and recreation
facilities and programs
* Provide equally distributed parks and open
1 | a ae space amenities throughout the City
‘cottonwood H QP] (j a (S * Develop a network of urban trails that
ee ai a provides alternative transportation
——— — a * Develop safe pedestrian routes to schools
renera | Pla 1) and other facilities
eee a * Collaborate with other agencies to develop
solutions to trails on state highways
* Minimize risks to life and property associated
‘Wis... with flooding, slope stability, seismic activity,
— unstable soil, and wildfire
* Protect environmental resources such as
JULY 26, 2003 water quality, wildlife habitat, scenic quality,
hillsides, ridgelines, vegetation, and wetlands
Cottonwood Heights incorporated as a city
on January 14, 2005. The General Plan
was written and adopted shortly thereafter,
following collaboration from the Mayor, City
Council, Planning Commission, staff, and
planning consultants. Its purpose is to provide
a comprehensive guide for development
in Cottonwood Heights. The General Plan
illustrates a common vision for residents,
businesses, property owners, city staff, and
officials in Cottonwood Heights. It provides
guidance on decisions relating to transportation,
land uses, socioeconomics, annexation, parks
and open space, urban trails, and the natural
environment.
Open Space Master Plan Background | 7

Salt Lake County Natural Areas Plan Cottonwood Heights Open Space
(2007) Master Plan (2008)
S ALT LAKE COU NTY Cottonwood Heights City
re Parks, Trails, Open Space Master Plan
Natural Areas eS Se ee
Land Management Plan | SE Ez emia >) im a
Standards and Operabhéns.lvienval ut Sa a ER. ER
ie MA ds at a Se Se oe ee
Salt Lake County aims to preserve, restore, and The 2008 Cottonwood Heights Parks, Trails,
enhance natural areas within their jurisdiction. Open Space Master Plan was prepared in
Natural areas offer multiple community benefits collaboration with GSBS Architects. This
ranging from aesthetics to wildlife habitat to low- document, called for by the 2005 General
impact recreation opportunities. These benefits Plan, expresses the essential nature of open
are increasingly important as communities space and recreational facilities to the overall
become continually more concerned with the social and economic wellbeing of a community.
preservation of open-space and park lands, It provides definitions, service standards, an
which are jeopardized by rapid development. existing conditions inventory, and recommended
The Salt Lake County Natural Areas Plan is policies and actions relating to parks, trails, and
meant to serve as a guide for the effective open space within the city.
management of natural areas by establishing
standards for the definition and classification of Key Elements:
natural areas, the maintenance of natural areas, * Circa 2008, Cottonwood Heights is deficient
and the rehabilitation of degraded natural areas. by 119.79 acres of neighborhood and
community parks
Key Elements: * Circa 2008, Cottonwood Heights is deficient
* Cottonwood Heights contains Bigtooth by 109.95 acres of regional parks land
Maple-Gambel Oak Woodlands, Alpine and ¢ The close proximity to canyon areas and
Subalpine Areas, Pinyon-Juniper Woodlands, private recreation properties helps mitigate
and Invasive Plant Communities some of these deficiencies, but they should
¢ The biota within these areas should be still be addressed
considered in planning for the preservation of | * Development of unimproved public lands
natural areas should be the first priority in providing more
° Specific management guidelines, including amenities
those for weed management, erosion control, * Procurement of privately owned property
and revegetation are outlined should also be considered in adding needed
acreage
I lei lie i AS i gg ayy
8 | Background Cottonwood Heights

Salt Lake County Parks and Rec Salt Lake County East West
Facilities Master Plan (2015) Recreational Trails Master Plan (2015)
Salt Lake County >
East West Recreational Trails Master Plan oe Pe
Salt Lake County ~. ee ee 2 ad
2015 Parks & Recreation. oe ll Trees
Facilities Master Plan" rt er aa
The SLCo Parks and Recreation Facilities Salt Lake County recognizes the importance of
Master Plan is a guiding document for planning and developing regional trails in order
developing parks, trails, open space, and to provide critical connections and recreation
recreation facilities within Salt Lake County. With = opportunities. This plan outlines opportunities
unprecedented growth, the demand for quality between both developed and undeveloped Salt
recreation services is constantly increasing. The Lake County areas in order to tie together a
document is a culmination of input from special coordinated system of east west trails across
interest groups, residents, municipalities, NRPA, various jurisdictions and physical conditions.
staff, and elected officials. Its goal is to leverage In addition to identifying connections between
partnerships and collaboration to provide a trails, the plan promotes connections to parks
greater diversity of services to a greater number and open spaces, key destinations, and transit
of constituents, whether parks, trails, recreation amenities.
facilities, or programs.
Key Elements:
Key Elements: * This plan outlines several trail corridors which
* The amenities most important to SLCO involve Cottonwood Heights. These corridors
households include trails for walking, include:
running, and biking; natural open space * Corridor C — Big Cottonwood Canyon to
areas; unprogrammed lawn areas; children’s Magna & West Bench
playgrounds; group pavilion areas; and * Corridor D — Little Cottonwood Canyon to
indoor swimming pools Copperton
* Available funding should be allocated toward ¢ Corridor E — Little Cottonwood Canyon to
maintenance of existing amenities, as well as Midas Creek & Rose Canyon
development of new amenities * As trail corridor development in Cottonwood
* 75% of survey respondents feel that park Heights continues, these alignments, as
and recreation facilities make a community a well as the preferred standards for trail
better place to live materials, trailheads, wayfinding, lighting,
* Development standards outline which site furnishings, and maintenance should be
services should be provided, and at what considered.
frequency. These standards should be used
as guidelines and adjusted based on specific
circumstances.
Open Space Master Plan Background | 9

Mountain Accord (2015) Wasatch Choice 2050 (2016)
LN i Mi 2
MOUNTAIN ACCORD E i> } & wn cent
wena. Alen ea |WASATCH CHOICE
ree i
More than 20 organizations representing the On October 27, 2016, the Wasatch Front
State of Utah, Cities, Counties, Nonprofits, Ski Regional Council adopted the Wasatch Choice
Resorts, and other groups signed an agreement 2050 goals. These goals are the result of input
on July 13, 2015 called The Mountain Accord from cities, counties, transportation partners,
Charter. Generally, the purpose of the charter businesses, and community organizations along
is to provide solutions to the pressing issues the Wasatch Front.
facing the Central Wasatch mountain range.
The stated goals of the charter are to conserve, Key Elements:
protect, and restore the natural ecosystem; ¢ There are several goals included in Wasatch
encourage high levels of recreational use Choice 2050 which relate to Parks, Trails,
at nodes with convenient access; to provide and Open Space, including:
a sustainable, safe, efficient, multi-modal ¢ Livable and healthy communities
transportation system; and to promote economic ¢ Manageable and reliable traffic conditions
prosperity. * Quality transportation choices
* Safe, user friendly streets
Key Elements: ¢ Clean air
* Cycling and pedestrian environments in Big ¢ Sustainable environment
and Little Cottonwood Canyons needs to « Ample parks, open space, and
be improved in order to encourage active recreational opportunities
transportation ¢ Strategies to achieve these, and the other
¢ A trail network must be developed that Wasatch Choice 2050 goals, include:
connects residents and communities ¢ Provide transportation choices, including
with recreation nodes and future transit transit access and bicycle facilities
stations ¢ Support housing options
* There should be a balance in the type of e Preserve open space, providing
trails provided, including those for hikers, unparalleled access to the outdoors
bikers, skiers, and climbers « Link economic development with
* To avoid conflict between user groups, transportation and housing decisions,
mitigation efforts like trail etiquette thinking about the interplay between them
signage should be incorporated. and ultimately the outcomes we want to
achieve
10 | Background Cottonwood Heights

Cottonwood Heights Bicycle & Trails Cottonwood Heights Fort Union
Master Plan (2016) Boulevard Master Plan (2017)
Ft AA Ge in ONY \ Sai — / FORT UNION MAIN STREET CORRIDOR
ca See ; AREA PLAN
Cottonwood Heights : 7. \e\ “Sp.
£ D4 BICYCLE AND TRAILS i YS
FO MASTER PLAN ~ =
The Bicycle and Trails Master Plan proposes Fort Union Boulevard is a major corridor in
strategies to create a cohesive and functional Cottonwood Heights, serving as a gateway to
network of trails and bicycle lanes throughout the Big and Little Cottonwood Canyons, as well
Cottonwood Heights. Despite a growing as providing connection to the rest of the Salt
employment base, Cottonwood Heights is still Lake Valley. The Fort Union Boulevard Master
largely a suburban commuter city which was built Plan provides a vision for the future development
with a focus on convenient driving. The Bicycle of this corridor, synchronized by residents,
and Trails Master Plan offers suggestions for businesses, and officials, with the common goal
retrofitting the auto centricity of the City to of retrofitting this area as a “Main Street.” This
include active transportation infrastructure, as ambitious goal is also identified in the 2005
well as safe multi-modal transportation, human- General Plan and requires several stages for
scale activity, and recreation opportunities. implementation, the culmination of which will
result in a revitalized, place-based Main Street
Key Elements: corridor.
* Promote healthy lifestyles through bicycle
and pedestrian travel options Key Elements:
¢ Make bicycle and pedestrian travel a viable * Prioritize multi-modal transportation through
option with the City, and between Cottonwood safe conditions for pedestrians and cyclists,
Heights and its surrounding communities including dedicated bike lanes
* Promote Cottonwood Heights as an outdoor * Create a walkable environment which
recreation destination encourages pedestrian presence
* Focus on bicycle lanes and trails as catalysts ° Encourage a mix of neighborhood
for economic development destinations that patrons can walk or cycle to
* Improve street connectivity, pedestrian
crossings, and trail connections
¢ Intersperse landscaping, pocket parks, linear
parks, plazas, and other urban green space
to add character and function to the area
penne mec
Open Space Master Plan Background | 11

Cottonwood Heights Wasatch The Wasatch Boulevard Master Plan provides
Boulevard Master Plan (2019) guidelines for the future evolution of Wasatch
Boulevard and the communities it serves,
with a focus on Cottonwood Heights. The
SSS plan addresses transportation, land use, and
WASATCH BOULEVARD economics of the Boulevard corridor from
———————————————— Interstate 215 to the mouth of Little Cottonwood
Master Plan a .
Canyon. A long-range vision for the corridor,
| eee ~~ as well as strategies to achieve this vision,
Tee 5a n nS ae : were developed using values, priorities, current
4 = ie eS conditions, and anticipated future trends.
ne ial = feted): ay
Rake i Tee Key Elements:
Tag @ Bom ties > ?P d enhance th ic and natural
eee, avon, A ee reserve and enhance the scenic and natura
Gad eas LEON ER UG Fei ee qualities along the corridor
2) ee * Create a safe and comfortable environment
tal Pl for cyclists and pedestrians
= Bren * Enhance recreation opportunities along the
odhFbze corridor
ii... ey comeciion * Incorporate native landscaping and urban
greenspace within corridor development
* Connect existing and future amenities
through walkable paths, trails, and crossings
South of Bengal Boulevard .
Bee . _
SHARED USE PATH FLEX SHOULDER MEDIAN NATIVE LANDSCAPE
wr: a D on
¥ ’ sy 4 Pe
oo
12 | Background Cottonwood Heights

Community Snapshot Population
The community snapshot provides an overview Current Population ;
of important community parameters, including: The US Census bureaus has estimated the 2018
population of Cottonwood Heights and Salt Lake
* Population County as follows:
* Age Distribution
+ Minority Populations * Cottonwood Heights: 34,170
« Flousehoid fnenen * Salt Lake County: 1,152,633
* People with a Disability . .
Population Projections
It is important to understand the percentage of Wasatch Front Regional Council has used
people who may have limited access to open their traffic analysis zone method to produce a
space within the community. Studying the map population projection for Cottonwood Heights
of population distribution by race, ethnicity, and City that takes into account an estimated number
income can inform a culturally sensitive ideation of developable miele for each zone. Although
of recommendations. The following pages the projections start with a lower estimated
provide a summary of demographic information population than the SESS data, it helps to
relative to the preparation of the Open Space demonstrate population growth trends to be
Plan. It is also important to understand the considered for long-range planning. For instance,
percentage of people who are isolated within the this model projects approximately 10,000 new
community. Seniors and children are often more residents by 2050, mostly in redeveloped gravel
isolated than the general population realizes. pil Bless
Having a greater understanding of the larger ° Projected Population, 2020: 32,707
community helps ensure that the open space ° Projected Population, 2030; 32,488
recommendations respond directly to the needs ° Projected Pop ulation, 2040; 34,397
of the community. * Projected Population, 2050: 41,839
WT ee ga See ee a
ee eS es. ORY We |
ee =e Re eo oe
ee Ge eae a oe -
see a ; & S85 oe A. i Poe ees x Ax a és ‘ ap Si:
_ ae tae) i ‘et See, BLS
pr EE gee I ee SEE SSS CNR ae ne ee rea
2p Ping ii
Open Space Master Plan Existing Conditions | 13

Age Distribution Minority Populations
Different age groups have different needs and 9.6% of Cottonwood Heights residents identify
use patterns for open space that should be wholly or partially non-white. Another 5.9%
considered when planning for the future. For identify as Hispanic. Considering this data
example, school age children are typically in together, nearly 15% of the community identifies
school during the day while retirees might make with a minority background. Efforts should be
use of parks during that time. made to ensure that future open space amenities
are accessible to residents of all racial and
Cottonwood Heights City is on par with Salt ethnic backgrounds.
Lake County in terms of 20 - 65-year-old adults.
However, data shows a higher population of Household Income
seniors and lower population of children in Areas of the city with lower household incomes
Cottonwood Heights when compared to the could benefit from increased access to open
County. While children remain a significant space amenities. Populations with lower income
portion of the community that are generally levels may have less access to private open
unable to drive to facilities, there should be a space. Areas with relatively lower incomes are
moderately increased emphasis on planning sometimes higher density neighborhoods with
for elderly needs. Planning to increase access less yard space. Improvements should be made
for both children and senior citizens will be an to increase access and connectivity to parks,
important component of this plan. trails, and open space for less advantaged
communities.
Age Group Cottonwood Heights ‘Salt Lake County
children(0-419) 28% 30% po oe | Median Family Income.
Adults 61% 59%, ~=——_Extremely Low Income (30% of Median) 10%
Elderly «16%. 11% -__VeryLow Income (50% of Median), 8%
US Census Bureau. 2018: ACS 5-Year Estimates Data Profiles | ____ LowIncome (80% of Median) 18%)
| Median Income and Above AG
TAY a cc a US Department of Housing and Urban Development, 2020
Litt \\ People with a Disability
Lt itt : z An important equity consideration in planning
NMI | . for park and open space facilities is providing
LANGA z &) . access and accommodations for persons of all
— rie i . eee eck abilities. Census data shows that some areas of
: a 7 \\ —_eE—S | ste city are estimated to have up to 9% of the
osc AO ———— population under 18 with a disability and some
es oe =) areas may have up to 54% of the population
- : over 65 with a disability. The needs of this
\ \ , community should be considered when making
Rete el Ee ¥ \ improvements to the City’s parks.
S Ss =
Reece ll 7 =reeenenemneeeeemesaieeneeee Ion enon eer mre
14 | Existing Conditions Cottonwood Heights

The Open Space Master Plan was developed with the input and direction of Cottonwood Heights

community members, committees, and commissions. Community involvement helped to establish

the priorities used to create the goals and strategies recommended in this plan. Most residents felt

that open space and the recreation opportunities it offers is a key priority to focus on in Cottonwood

Heights and those who participated appreciated the opportunity to give feedback in the formation of

this Plan. The forms of public outreach used in this plan were:

* Community surveys

* Open houses and public events

* Coordination with Parks, Trails, and Open Space Committee

* Public hearings with the Planning Commission and City Council

Open Houses & Public Event * Sidewalks on Wasatch

Butlerville Days 2017 * Develop Bonneville Shoreline Trail

City staff set up a booth to take comments * Awesome park (Crestwood Park)

from the public at the 2017 Butlerville Days * Safety lights for students! Some kid is gonna

celebration. The following comments were made die! (Bella Vista Elementary)

by residents on a map of the city: * Restore and preserve this land when the
lease is up (Gravel Pit)

¢ All abilities park for kids ¢ Preserve this (Old Mill)

° Provide off leash dog areas ¢ Historic location (Old Mill)

* Preserve green space and open trail heads * Please preserve! Make a trailhead! (Top of

and/or trail access the World Dr.)
th N. PRA H) ‘A > ex ” a
| el HE ~~ | “eh
j 4 }} i , % ‘ s % Ps .
=? - i i R ‘ ™e ‘
Ya] . al | (\ " bY ett, ’
Open Space Master Plan Public Engagement | 15

September 2017 Open House * Deaf Smith access: -trail access established
Community members were invited to a public -no parking -parking can be directed to
open house at City Hall on September 28, 2017 Golden Hills Park
to give input and share ideas to help shape the * Entrance point to the wilderness. (Deaf
future of the Cottonwood Heights Open Space Smith)
Plan. The following comments were received at « Leave as open space with trails like Dimple
the open house: Dale. Paths to walk with dogs! (Above Top of
the World)
¢ A multi-use trail should be a priority. (East ¢ | would like to see walking or biking trails on
Jordan Canal Trail) this face. Connections to BST. (Above Top of
* Take out a house, make a trailhead, pocket the World)
park. (Union View Trail) * This is no mans land Needs to be purchased
* Open road for pedestrian access to Home not built upon. (Above Top of the World)
Depot. (Union View Trail) ¢ Buffer zone for home owners Privacy, peace,
* Keep Crestwood Park and Little Cottonwood enjoyment. (Above Top of the World)
Park natural environment, do not develop or * Preserve the existing undeveloped space for
allow dogs off leash. the beauty of the city, as well as the current
* Dog park area off leash. (Crestwood Park) wildlife. Also for the safety of the existing
* Would love to see a section of this reserved homes to prevent erosion, mudslides,
as a dog park; NO DOG PARK PLEASE; No flooding, etc.
dog park please this is from a dog owner and le ez
lover. On leash is fine. (Crestwood Park) a =
* How about a new trail to parallel our BCC i ra =o *
trail, it would be our LCC trail. (starting at bed + —
Crestwood Park) | ones’ | i ls—
* Acquire LDS property, keep wilderness and Tag Lb Tl, habe | | | ’
natural. i iis ae hit | f
* Should buy these acres for open space and | a =
trails. (LDS Property) —- gl | bi
« Puta preserve. Have access for hiking and | ‘all
BST. This area is a must to protect. (9151S. | 5
Wasatch Blvd.) j eee
* This is a historical location. -Early temple eT
quary. -Recreation hub. -Bonneville Shorline ' a flame
Trailhead. (LCC Baseland) ae
¢ No foothill or hillside development. eee ef: ,
¢ Legal trail access that would connect all the ey
way to the bottom of LCC. (End of Top of the Se.
World) ee Fey
* Keep the open spaces there are a number of me =
trails in this area. (End of Top of the World) Ne Sie
* Deaf Smith Canyon access. ~
¢ Trail access! (Deaf Smith) ws
- Access for Deaf Smith Canyon. =
16 | Public Engagement Cottonwood Heights

* Leash free dog park along with park and ride. * Large park and ride for both canyons. (Gravel
(Ferguson Overflow) Pit)
* Start to Focus on the connection between * Approach SL County to turn unbuilt part of
BCC and LCC via the BST. Tavaci into trails/open space.
* Buffer zone for homeowners, maybe parking * Open space with connector to expand BST.
for access to BST to be limited to the parking No housing development in area above
lots at the base of BCC and LCC. Maybe Wasatch. Redevelopment of gravel pit
offer for the homeowners to purchase with mixed-use and mass transit access.
property directly behind their homes. TRAX connection, alleviation of ski traffic on
* Focus on the BST from BCC to LCC to start a Wasatch.
proper bike program. * Acquire and preserve Old Mill, don’t let it
* Extend Bywater south (purchase land to crumble.
the south) add off leash dog park in the city * Old Mill would be a good dog park.
somewhere.
* Leash free dog park. (Cemetery) October 2017 Open Space Survey
* Bike park, running trail. (Cemetery) A survey was handed out to residents at the
* Continue trail thru the gravel pit development, | open house and given out to residents in the
connect the Bonneville Shoreline Trail. community throughout the month of October
2017. This survey received 138 responses.
2017 Open Space Survey Results GE:
p Pp y ‘ottonwood Heights
The City of Cottonwood Heights The City Should...
held an Open Space Open House in Take an active role in aes
October 2017 to help get community preserving open space. 94% Agree
feedback about what should be done 7
A survey was handed out at the Open i Ha Seemeneuiaakes wavinney
House as well as given out to residents a ——
in the community and recieved 138 rane aspomarce St foomnile 88% Agree ee |
responses. )
"wetlands steomscndeces, © BB% Agree
profeciinemfonuiuicuss, 86% Agree |
eee
Open Space Master Plan Public Engagement | 17

There is enough pepe
conserved open space eo
in Cottonwood Heights ae
BPOv sou 24% 12% 4%
70% Disagree Agree Somewhat Disagree I don't know
Agree
| support a bond or tax increase to pay for open space aquisition
Public Comments
Please protect current
I sure wish we could Sok caraelina stop .
Preserve what get a bond We love east of Please stop ignoring re-zoning to increase Appreciate the
you have left. together or some wasatch and are current codes so that development. trail/historical signs
No more housing other mechanism concemed about the you can squeeze in along BC creek. More
developments in to purchase the increases in traffic and more development. In addition to access of the same. Any
Please do not build Cottonwood bank-owned land possibility of losing our You are too much in to green space and green space among
a park andridein Heights. Keep our east of Top of The foothills to develop- favor of more tax protection of wildlife, the urban concrete
open space on City green and not World and build a ment and sold to money to spend - for we need walkable and business areas
wasatch and homes or businesses trail system for people who donotlive —_ example, the Giverny areas, not more strip helps improve quality
bengal. everywhere. hikers and runners. here year round. project malls. of life.
ee
We would love to Cottonwood Heights My biggest concern is A more legitimate bike I'm asking the City to It is a shame thet more Safe biking and walking
seeacommunity — hasa strong outdoor access for dogs. There path along Wasatch please do as much as creas are being devel- corridors within the city
dog park. community that con't is nowhere for dogs to would be an improve- you can fo preserve the oped as new multiuse connecting open spaces
actually access the go off leash that is ment. For bikers and natural beauty and areas when there are make for c healthier, more
mountains on their fenced in, without commuters. Preserving accessibility that drew me several commercial cttractive place to five.
backdoor step getting fined. | would access fo recreation to Utch. buildings (class B or C) Also, access to public
because it's blocked like to see smaller dog and valuing the natural available for lease lands should not be
by private land. It’s parks in CH. We could resource of our There needs tobe asafe  currently.| would like fo _ limited by a few land
like living next to the take already available mountains is why | way to get from Bengal see the current building holders. The foothills cre
beach and net being space the countyowns — choose Cottonwood Blvd to the bottom of Big owners be able to increasingly being
able to actually goto ‘like Bywater park or Heights over Sugar Cottonwood Canyon. upgrade their current cordoned off by develop-
the beach! even buy land for House or Draper. We The “expanded shoulder spaces before we build ment. Deaf smith canyon
smaller parks. are here for work life on Wasatch is too small. = more buildings forretail.| should have a permanent
se . bolance. And the understand mere retail easement for hiking based
24 ~— a isd mountains ore the ‘Pocket parks’ on brings more taxes, but! on existence of the trail
oes ee cana Ze biggest part of that. oo ee lots. poe there should be a per to development of
ah Bengal. or build Some of the trails properties would SEW aaa
4 another one. It’s only can help beautify improve our
fair to accommo- roads as well. outdoor community
daie dogs. significantly.
April 2018 Open House this has been a challenge.
Community members were invited to a follow- * Need more family friendly bike and
up open house at City Hall on April 29, 2018 to walking paths. Love Big Cottonwood trail!
give additional input. Residents were asked the Would love to see a safe bike path along
following questions: Wasatch...separate from the road so kids
can Use.
¢ How should the City fund open space * We need legal access of the foothills
preservation? behind Kings Hill Drive. Maybe an
« | support a bond or tax increase to easement to access the trail system in
establish access to the Bonneville that area would be possible.
Shoreline Trail. * Open to trail off of Golden Hills Dr.
¢ What new trails should the City pursue? « How should we improve the quality of current
Where? parks?
¢ We should have MTB and/or bike specific * My biggest priorities are upgrading
trails in the foothills. The BST connection existing Cottonwood Heights parks to
form BCC to LCC is just a start and even make them more dog friendly. One of the
a
18 | Public Engagement Cottonwood Heights

easiest and cheapest ways to do this is ¢ What should be the City’s priorities for new
by installing dog friendly water fountains. parks?
Commercial prices for these fountains are ¢ Mountain Bike Park similar to Corner
between $3,000-7,000. Canyon- this could be on the cemetery
¢ | would like to see shade sails for the land or gravel pit.
playgrounds, especially at Golden Hills, * | would also love to see an off-leash dog
Mill Hollow, and Mountview Park (too park, but | understand that’s a big ask.
hot to use in summer) | would like to see * Off-leash area for dogs would be a great
outdoor exercise equipment at Parks, like improvement for the community.
Murray Park. Parents can exercise while
kids play. Each park should have an off * If it was acquired, how should the City use
leash area. natural open space?
* Access to the foothills that does not
encroach on private property rights.
150 Take an active role in preserving open space. 150 Take an active role in preserving wildlife
Stee habitats and travel corridors.
100 | 100 | feat
50 aes 50 dos :
Agnes sorhewtat Disagree | don't know Agree ; Somewhat Disagree | don't know
Agree Agree
150 150
Take and active role preening natural Take an active role in preserving wetlands,
appearance oF foothills. Ep streams, and creeks.
100 100 ie
12 1 2 ae 13 2 0
50 50 Se aae
Agree Soqaanal - agree | don't know 7 Sorennal Disagree I don't know
150 i ; 150
Identify easing trails and protect Strive to preserve smaller lots and
them for future use. TERRA community green spaces.
100 100 | fees
Agree Somewhal Disagree I don't know Agree Someuhat Disagree | don't know
; Agree Agree
Open Space Master Plan Public Engagement | 19

Cottonwood Heights Community 2019 Relevant Survey Findings & Citizen
Surveys Comments
The City of Cottonwood Heights hired a market * Residents would allocate nearly 6% of the
research and data analytics group, Y2 Analytics, City budget towards trail development if they
to conduct official citizen surveys. Surveys were could program the budget.
conducted in 2016, 2017, and 2019. The surveys ° 61% of respondents indicated that “improving
included several questions related to parks and and maintaining current City parks, trails,
open space, as well as numerous opportunities and open spaces” was more important than
for residents to give general feedback. “purchasing land and developing new parks,
trails, and open spaces.”
2016 Relevant Survey Findings & Citizen * 7% of respondents indicated that Ferguson
Comments Canyon Trailhead was the most used by their
* We need to have off leash areas for dog household or visited most often.
owners period. We do not have one offleash  ° 11% indicated that they wanted to see
area. Ferguson Canyon Trailhead to “see improved
¢ Need dog parks upon the most.”
* DOG Park!!!
* Adedicated unleash dog park is needed
to promote exercise and community
engagement.
¢ Lack of a dog park. Bywater Park used to be
off leash but no longer is.. The holding pond
down the hill behind The DOT yard used
to let the dogs swim there. It was a whole
community of dog people for the 2 months
there is water. Not anymore.
¢ Lack of dog parks
2017 Relevant Survey Findings & Citizen
Comments Vee ©
*« Amajority of residents reported participating are PEE SX 7 ae
in outdoor recreation at City parks at least ; : ag ote,
once a month. . Pag F 3 pte te te
¢ Amajority of residents would be willing to iF See hap
pay anywhere from $25-100 per year for Be SE SNA
parks & open spaces or increased street Sees
maintenance, although there is some ‘i
evidence of price sensitivity.
¢ When asked to prioritize parks and open
space investments for the future, residents
ranked a dog park as a top priority, justbelow | :
preserving open space and building new
parks.
20 | Public Engagement Cottonwood Heights

Vision * City-owned property and right-of-way
Preserve and Protect enhances the natural beauty of the City.
Parks arid’‘Open Space ¢ Unique neighborhood activity centers

¢ Existing parks and recreation facilities are inearporaie GPen shace, BURG plazas, ang
maintained, upgraded, and highly utilized. other amenities act as strong pedestrian

» Naniral ands aee8 saaeeh Feat pads alfithos destinations and activity nodes that create
and landmarks are nrotedied fhrroughent additional interest and reasons for people to
the City and in adjacent Federal, State, and walk and utilize the active transportation and
County open space lands trail network throughout the City.

» Wildlife habitat is cress! and managed * Historic buildings and sites are incorporated
to appropriately support habitat connectivity Sine Gpet Space TTEENDIE.
and ecology and serves as a refuge for * Clean, clear, and dark skies are enjoyed and
species impacted by urbanization while not IeeOgniZed as an Pane in bie Ollys
jeopardizing people or property near it. olen space networ d the built .

* The fire wildland-urban interface properly ' onthoct eon bath _ ' eee
maintains the health and safety of people and ri Sa TRE MEDS GATE DESI, GTI
property while protecting critical habitat and ° er . .
ecosystems. Trails and Active Transportation

Trails and Active Transportation * An established interconnected greenway

* Existing trails, trailheads, and the active seni aligned ssomapiiaieiing: due
transportation network are maintained regional Pais; Gperrspacesand aalnity
upgraded, and highly utilized areas through a seamless integration of

Urban Forest , sidewalks, active-transportation, off-road and

* The urban forest is maintained, upgraded, riatural (rail facilities. :
and valued as a public resource that ¢ The trail network accesses public lands

. ; for city resident and non-city users without
contributes to the enjoyment of the urban and . . ; ;
natural world interfering with the quality of life of nearby
, residents or infringing on private property

Enhance and Connect rights. , ,

Parks and Open Space ¢ Wayfinding is found throughout the city

¢ Ahigh-quality open space network has been tral _ peop nya ms
created. Equitable distribution and access to Cn PO OPR NEDSS REM Or Ey aCe

‘ : , on means.
high quality parks and recreational facilities ‘ :
are found throughout the city. Parks and * A robust city- and canyon-wide public transit
open space pedestrian service'area gaps system relieves traffic generation and parking
are filled with facilities matched to the area’s demand as well = expand ss range ao .
Aeadé, Résioral open space and pails-ars reach of trail and active transportation facility
considered as meeting part of the city-wide uses ioiparicand open SRaRE destinavans,
weeds. Parking management strategies

» Open space has been acquired for formal compliment the support of transit and active

: : transportation goals.
preservation and enjoyment by future . .
getierations. ¢ An active transportation network that
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 21

mee | , Aiea fh HNN Ly | iv HC ACH Nb MES

are Lf ae pF secs tt Ee —-— fe .
connects sidewalks, neighborhood pedestrian regardless of the area’s past development
connections, urban and natural trails, and history.
bike lanes.

Urban Forest Healthy and Safe

* Parks and streets populated with healthy * High utilization of parks, open space, trails,
trees that create a hospitable environment and recreation, coupled with the benefits
and maximize canopy without being of the urban forest, mean residents enjoy
detrimental to private property or public a higher level of physical, mental, and
infrastructure. economic health over their predecessors.

¢ New development prioritizes and amply ¢ Parks, open spaces, trails, crossings, and
incorporates preserved and new trees. recreational facilities are safe and inviting.

Equitable and Accessible Collaborate and Educate

Parks and Open Space ¢ Aproductive relationship with neighboring

* Parks and open spaces are designed to cities, Salt Lake County, Federal agencies,
accommodate diverse activities, ages, regional partners, and non-profits preserve,
abilities, and user groups and can respond to maintain, enhance, and create a parks, open
changing recreational trends. space and trails system that meets plan and

Trails and Active Transportation mutual goals.

* Trail and active transportation facilities ¢ Residents are partners with the city in
accommodate diverse active transportation maintaining and achieving plan goals.
modes that meet the needs of diverse ages, * Resident's education about the value and
abilities, and user group’s opportunities of the City’s parks, open

Urban Forest space, trails, and forestry lead them to take

* The benefits of the urban forest are pride-in, proactively utilize and contribute to
received in all neighborhoods within the city, maintaining and building it.

22 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

Benefits
Economic Benefits Health Benefits .
The National Recreation and Park Association Parks, trails, and open space contribute to the
(NRPA) analyzed studies on the economic happy, healthy lifestyles of residents. Another
impacts of parks and found that “a premium of 8 analysis by the NRPA of scientific studies related
percent to 10 percent on property values abutting to the health benefits of parks found that:
or fronting a passive park in urban environments” i
was a conservative estimate of the economic * Living close to parks and other recreation
benefits of parks. This impact was generally facilities is consistently related to higher
higher for properties closer to the parks and physical activity levels for both adults and
also higher for passive parks rather than active youth.
parks. Good park design and adequate buffers to ° Adolescents with easy access to multiple
adjacent neighbors were recommended as ways recreation facilities were more physically
obese than adolescents without access to
Research by the University of Washington found such facilities.
that “homes that are adjacent to naturalistic * Increasing access to recreation facilities is an
parks and open spaces are valued at 8-20% essential strategy for preventing childhood
higher than comparable properties, with the obesity. 7
positive price effect declining to near zero about = * ~Organized park programs and supervision
% mile away.” may increase the use of parks and
playgrounds and may also increase physical
The NRPA also analyzed studies related to the activity, particularly sania youths.
economic impact of trails, finding that “a small ° Park renovations CGF Inch ase Vigerous
positive premium of between 3 percent and 5 physical activity among children and can also
percent was the most widespread outcome for increase the use of certain types of facilities,
a single-family home located next to a trail.” As including playgrounds and skate parks.
with parks, it’s important for future trails to be
well-designed with adequate buffers to preserve
the privacy of the adjacent neighborhoods.
Ps ee Le og eee ve en NN : :
eS OS ales ae es ee
Tee ON SE ae states \ SIL Se aL Ss Nahe eigen Re NARS,
SP cA ie os Sate OC Os Ee ORM ta ESS
i ki nl eeereeremmnmoamannernteituaiiamamas dis aman sass
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 23

Strategies
Based on feedback from residents and the recommendations of existing long-range plans, this plan
proposes the following new strategies to acheive the City’s open space goals. These strategies are
“big ideas” that comprise a guiding vision of future possibilities. The strategies are intended to serve
as policy guidelines and not specific plans for projects.
Existing Open Space
Cottonwood Heights residents enjoy a variety of « Oirleash Gog ates
wg. . sa ¢« Restrooms
existing parks, trails, and open space amenities. : ;
; wg: ae ¢ Walking trails/tracks
Assessing the existing facilities available to .
ai ‘ . . ¢ Playground equipment
the public is an essential step in planning for : ;
— . ¢ Maintenance/cleanliness
the future. The existing open space inventory .T
includes parks, schools, private open space and rees oo,
; aa , ¢ Walking/jogging tracks
other special facilities like cemeteries and golf _
— ¢ Picnic areas
, ¢ Splash pads
Specific recommendations for each park ° Oohcholeau
have not been included in this master plan. lontena ou
¢ Covered pavilions
Improvements to parks should be planned LE ise stati
in cooperation with the Cottonwood Heights . arden ice track
Parks and Recreation Service Area and Staaciba ie ‘ faci ae .
Salt Lake County Parks, as applicable. The LF ine an f en for iive MUSIC
recommendations included in this plan should be . die - g° nid
considered as each park upgrade is planned. ona or gar en
* Community garden
Recommendations have been made by the * ‘Community vent Spice
blic about amenities that are missing in as ‘ :
svaliaio Heiahts. When vocidlents vane One additional amenity that was not listed as a
: a , “as ; choice in the community survey is an all-abilities
asked which existing amenities they would like : segs
to see improved on or which new amenities they park. Residents suggested that al-abilities
would like added to their local parks, the top playground amenities be added to City parks at
responses were: subsequent open houses. Demographic data
, suggests that there is a need for all-abilities
. kn al  —_—— — facilities in Cottonwood Heights.
p a : a ‘ Potential improvements should be evaluated
. < ) = when new park upgrades are proposed to see if
east hi Vue appropriate for a given location. Improvements
f will be made as budget, bonds, grants,
nt ee teeta HLLLUURRRN) §=— donations and other methods outlined in the
\\ air 7 md implementation chapter allow.
Ts
24 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS EXISTING OPEN SPACE
ges
ty 4 ay rite. saab
we. WABI, Coll Course gS amr
% nKnudSsen}Parkveeenees fi 4 .
Wheeler, Farm : So TSE a _——e
5 DEBE, Se Cres ee a eye ey ad ee A SR es hae Kee.
Ni eae BES Pate: eee Bihari aeea tte a HOld Mill!Parks 4 net .
CON SEATS - RyAntczoki park ae Sent ae tee B y water, Parke aa tan a ")
, iebeete CaR wa Crestwood Bah cif ue Ate aeRO res aes = hy d
Pe UE Es ae a eo Oh Shas peg ete Bea Fe, “lags, Es : Pe
>. <<‘ & eg ee) im > to Se Pe
<P ~AG @ Nie TDR a ee
ete tenho MISS Pa: - , an Pan *
| a
Sey dtd : | a] Mi oi
an ee ee
Vices ten, Se ae
- Map Legend -
@) Existing Open Space Points Existing Open Space CJ cityBoundary N
Type,Status Planning Area
PA) Private, Existing
[9] Public, Existing
Semi-Public, Existing
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 25

National Standards Cottonwood Heights Inventory (based on a
The National Recreation and Park Association enone seh eal oe
(NRPA) provides general benchmarks for park . Rowidente ae k: 3 192
metrics and standards that communities can dere mt a 250 (includ
use as a tool for evaluating performance. There f eel, ne ‘h held. d une . od
is no single set of park standards that can be van re ene
universally applied to every community because . he a ae 4.000 Residents:
each community has unique characteristics, but Aunts a4 ana per! esidens:
there is value in comparing current conditions to Eprom. i
national best practices.
P Recommendations to Meet National Standards:
2021 NRPA Park Metrics for jurisdictions with " Adelbepel Pais
populations from 20,000 - 49,999: ¢ Additional Acres of Parkland: Approx. 100
* Residents per Park: 1,900 ; ;
« Aeewet sober per 1,000 Residents: 9.8 The recommendations of this plan seek to close
oo, _ the gap between Cottonwood Heights and the
(Parkland refers to both maintained parks ‘
national benchmarks provided by the NRPA. It is
and open space areas, such as green spaces , , ee
and courtyards. ) recommended that the City continue to prioritize
, the addition of new parkland as opportunities
arise, and as the community experiences growth
in the future.
Se- ri See i
26 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

Future Open Space Porcupine Trail Open Space
Based on feedback from residents and existing The area west of the recently completed
long-range plans, the Open Space Master Plan segment of the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail
makes recommendations for potential new that connects to the Fort Union Park and Ride
open space that could be developed, acquired, (the “Porcupine Trail’) has potential for future
or otherwise preserved in the future. These improvements to continue along Fort Union
are recommendations for future projects to be Boulevard as a greenbelt trailwalkway open
considered, not approvals of specific plans. The Space amenity.
properties featured in the future open space map .
could become new parks, could incorporate new City Hall Open Space .
facilities or amenities in future developments, or Options for additional BPE Space aMEnnes a
could be passive open space preservation areas City Hall could include benches, a pavilion, or an
depending on what’s most appropriate for the event space.
given area.

Ferguson Overflow Trailhead & Park
Fort Union Open Space The existing Ferguson Canyon Trailhead attracts
As the commercial areas along Fort Union Blvd. sinless from along the Wasatch Front, causing
redevelop in the future, it is important to design parking me frequently overflow into adjacent
the new developments in a way that incorporates residential areae: The development of a new
pedestrian walkways, public plazas, and park and trailhead along Wasatch Boulevard
greenspace. There are opportunities for open has the potential to improve the walkability of
space amenities at Park Centre, Highland Place, the neighborhood, provide overflow parking for
Hillside Plaza, and in the Whitmore Area. These trail users, and preserve the existing open space
future open space points on the map aren't along the corridor. City staff has identified this
iSAGed Teiidieate that tha somnvencial location as one of the top preferred sites for a
properties will be converted into parks and open future off-leash dog park.
space, but rather that new developments will ; .
provide open space amenities for the public. Foothills Open Space Preservation

The foothills east of Wasatch Blvd. are
Gravel Pit & Old Mill Open Space considered the scenic backdrop of the city and
Future development of the Wasatch Gravel should be preserved to the extent possible for
Pit and Old Mill properties should include wildlife habitat and recreation. Most residents
trailheads, plazas, parks, and other open space ranked open SEARS preservation as a high
amenities as appropriate. Multiple open space priority in the City surveys and open houses.
points have been included in the plan for future Further discussion of open space acquisition
amenities to be added throughout the Gravel Pit criteria and funding strategies is included in the
development. “Implementation” chapter of this plan.
Canyon Centre Park
A park at the new Canyon Centre development
at the base of Big Cottonwood Canyon was
approved as part of the original Canyon Centre
master plan.
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 27

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS FUTURE OPEN SPACE
Ge eee ee NM pe Sate AiO a oe ek a ae —pon ee ee
Pray rte: Su eee cok Viees Rags Rae ea oi Si Lae. ER bP ol
Ve gos ye Co Sen cee
Et RG Fy ‘ wee Mie e s ; 2 ie “ nl A & 5 ‘ . +ay : a = 8 << 2A
co Se te tee 2ighland orcnSreeo segatied Porcupineyirail Nae) Open(Space,# 2. gue, FS |
a Sy % ) feat tre pigs > 3 } fees —
lee may Ped <CbeO oh Es uF Hillside , \Open|Spacel# 3)
Si ee =‘ Centre}Parké + EM
! rE sign APA Opentspace} lopentSpace agi rergusont i ae
5 eee pa Trailhead 1 NG a eres
fiw af IE ie PAS Te oh > + . * y
08 2 TT mage Te. wax hars
a ms |/\iles: |: Pe EPS A ef OS™ SOS Ree a
- Map Legend -
Potential Open Space Proposed Open Space [a] CityBoundary N
. A
Status Type,Status Planning Area IX
i\
@) peRBAGal BROS Private,Proposed IN
Ss Public, Proposed
a ic
28 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

Existing Trails Urban Trails
There are several existing formal trails in van pats inelude here Palle walkways
Cottonwood Heights. The existing trails map — oF at by walkers, an eS with ;
includes existing trailheads, urban trails, and aia eis, SY ists, and people in wheelchairs.
natural trails This category includes cycle tracks (At-grade
protected bike lanes with barriers or raised, curb-
The existing trail network includes: separated bike lanes) and shared use pathways
that are physically separate from roadways.
* Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail This map also includes small neighborhood
* Cottonwood Corporate Center Trail pedestrian connections to schools and parks as
* East Jordan Canal Trail urban trails.
* Ferguson Canyon (Timberline) Trail ~
Natural Trails a AY
Natural trails can be defined generally as an ie ee ses tr an $5 cae
improved or unimproved path through a natural a Wee. ie SN ea a
area designed for the enjoyment of scenic views, $ lok. AS hotel yaa
natural areas, and outdoor recreation. ai gee ee 3 :
he ae.
ay PRR eee?” oh. Te SORA A go ‘ SS NGSSSESSE
wa oe qy a a i, | ‘iiss IF ae ree eowracy
PI, CE tg Ms nes Piak /4 ae TK ag gto a
Poo SA at el Alva
“ TSG) iy RL ies i Sages te Fees hee | yer ames, gd Be 4
RN gee add a x a ethnic
Dy Ae Vel yee ENN SER eae ae me
Ly sae OME | rete so| f Se
Re eee = i ‘Snel Wess
eae SS ee OS
ee ee ee
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 29

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS EXISTING TRAILS
: t 2 ee Skt y a salt yore as Fee stg ; ; TS ack tA ee me Bo a a wee? “era oe; Dax)
Be OP des Sage $3 4 “Fi ae > ots iY a, > 2 A Trail ie z om ae
4 fein ond pee eh athe Z cep erst crt . : ie) ee oe ee is Po ae 5 z > ane® "aie
SiS HES oer et or TE ERIN CHE Ee SEE es pe eal Oe TE eS eS 1 ele Te a Bop So i gietey i
a cee aa ce Peete > ae re alan 6, ee Se
ase Se S$ =a ; ei me Ale ; we. ae — 4
pm eT ny pene TeateeA Ri Eset | — ae ji
tape Ga ns Mens eee ire cane terete NS TS. ge Zi
Eartha ch, Bee Maram att eR NE Se S\N eel
eee ETOP RA! via Fen Paton the seated whhaa ae TE By et BUY re fo TS ; ——
- Map Legend -
Trailheads | Urban Trails Natural Trails [22d City Boundary N
Proposed = ™ Proposed
oH Proposed Potential ---~~ Potential
SS
30 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

Future Trails Enchanted Valley Trail

Cottonwood Heights Loop There is potential for a future trailhead and social

This trail concept creates a long loop connecting trail near the Racquet Club Condos through the

several existing and proposed trails throughout Brighton Point, Apple Valley, and Enchanted Hills

the City with connections to several parks along subdivisions connecting to Bywater Park and

the route. The proposed route would connect the possibly through the Memorial Estates cemetery

following trails and parks: to Bengal Boulevard. As with the other proposed
trails in this master plan, this proposal is mostly

* Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail along privately owned property and will require

© Old Mill Park additional planning efforts and public outreach in

+ Cottonwood Heights Trail (1-215 Trail) HUETISe.

. nena iis Wasatch Boulevard Trail

« Union View tii The Wasatch Boulevard Area Master Plan,

* Crestwood Park adopted by the City in 2019, envisioned a shared

- Bengal Blvd. Bike Lanes use pathway along the full length of the corridor.

* City Hall The plan made the following recommendations:

¢ Butler Park/Rec Center ; ; ;

- Bywater Park ¢ Link disconnected neighborhoods together

« Fort Union Molti-Use Path through shared use pathways and trails along

Wasatch Boulevard.

Fort Union Cycle Track ° Reduce the barrier of Wasatch Boulevard

This plan seeks to reinforce the vision of the with improved pedestrian and bicycle

Fort Union Master Plan by recommending a SIESSMgS: a ;

multi-use path on each side of Fort Union along ¢ Enhance visibility of pedestrians and cyclists

the entirety of the corridor, similar to what was at crosswalks at major niERSSCuGNS.

proposed in the “Community District” section of * Create a network of paths and crossings _

the original plan. Due to the high speeds along along the corridor will make short trips easier

Fort Union and the presence of large power to take on foot and bike and improve transit

lines, a separated cycle track is recommended BEDESS:

to provide connectivity in a safe way that is

accessible to users of all comfort levels. _—

; . : “hy ga OES Oe eee 2 ie on

Cottonwood Heights Trail (I-215 Trail) =A a :

Arecently completed segment of Parley’s Trailin  |>csqiie © ac 4

along I-80 demonstrates that trails along freeway [vom Cone on vi Ta LL. — =

right-of-way can be an effective way to serve the fare Pra 4 ge ae

needs of nearby residents. This plan envisions We =

a trail similar to the Parley’s Trail along |-215 se — inc _:

connecting the Big Cottonwood Canyon Trail to ae Re! wa

the Union Park Interchange. u a -

Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 31

* Create a network of paths that is a venue East Jordan Canal Trail
for recreation for all types of interests and The East Jordan Canal Trail currently extends
abilities — paved and dirt trails, routes to from Fort Union Blvd. at Park Centre Dr. along
parks and loops. the canal to the back of Mountview Park. The
* Connect the corridor’s activity centers and trail could be continued along the canal further
communities to the Cottonwood Canyons. northeast up to the freeway. The canal currently
* Implement the City’s Bicycle and Trails crosses the freeway in a pipe above the lanes
Master Plan by enhancing the on-street of traffic. With coordination between the City,
bike lane and lowering of vehicle speeds to UDOT, and Murray City, there might be a way
improve conditions for road cyclists. to modify this structure to double as a bridge,
¢ The Wasatch Boulevard Trail also includes providing pedestrian connectivity between
connections to the Old Mill and Gravel Pit Cottonwood Heights and Murray.
properties north of Fort Union Boulevard.
Union View Trail ————— :
The Union View Trail would connect the Union ee) ap Se pel =
View Subdivision in the Crestwood Planning ie A ms
Area down to the Park Centre commercial er a
development (Target and Home Depot) in j ‘me 24 eH pve at
the Union Planning Area. A concept plan was : oe “3
prepared for the City showing a possible trail | és . EE }
alignment connecting to the commercial area a
below with other possible connections to the ¢ ko "
neighborhood and along the hillside to the Santa gure 7
Fe Apartments. = “See i =
Bonneville Shoreline Trail eS  _ se
The Bonneville Shoreline Trail is a recreational . : Fanaa
trail envisioned to one day span north to south PE ig es
from the Utah-Idaho border to Nephi, Utah, 7 —_—
along the historic Lake Bonneville Shoreline. The es he | ——
City of Cottonwood Heights supports efforts to ne rh | ™
complete the section of the trail proposed within Ae =
city boundaries. Possible future trailheads and i ia
connections to the Bonneville Shoreline Trail : are ¥ 4 ‘
are proposed at the Gravel Pit, Prospector Hills, | : ' ———
Golden Hills, Deaf Smith Canyon, Jefferson |
Hollow, and at the base of Little Cottonwood
Canyon.
32 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

Private Property Rights This plan is not a detailed plan of trail
Acknowle dg ament alignments, nor is itan aequistionor .
construction plan. More detailed site-specific
Cottonwood Heights respects private property planning, analysis, design and public input must
rights. In the State of Utah, a government may occur after a general plan amendment has been
not use eminent domain for park, trail, and open approved, as appropriate.
space development, and that is not identified
imp! ntation strategy in the plan. As a a ,
a Sh IDIOMS iane ay _- ‘rails Through Adjacent
such, any plan elements represented on private Pepin:
land would only be realized through voluntary Jurisdictions
agreements between landowners and local This plan envisions an established
government, or through requirements made interconnected greenway network that connects
during substantial future development projects. neighborhoods to city and regional parks,
open spaces and activity areas. Several of the
The plan envisions trail development that urban and natural trails proposed in this plan
is of mutual benefit to trail users, adjacent show connections into and through adjacent
landowners, easement holders and residents. jurisdictions, including Holladay, Murray,
Trail access will only be acquired in a manner Midvale, Sandy, and unincorporated Salt Lake
that respects the rights of property owners and County areas. These connections are included
individual perspectives on the best use of land. for illustrative purposes only. Any future trail
connection that affects an adjacent jurisdiction
will require additional planning and coordination
with the affected entity.
4 b. ee 3 “ ae i a
: SP EO ns: oS tee Pe ee ee
2 eae emnin et ines sacs opec 2
<= -—nn nnn
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 33

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS FUTURE TRAILS
i a ale enya ee a a ae
Sy “by rs ; : ¥ ‘ * D: Pac Eg: ; ee oJ % ¢ AER we: Be wy '¥ . 3! Ww ~ oe . "~y 29 P
res aes Ess see) a ; mc re spe # 4 cin. \ lama
PAR TL < A os 4. gy
oe Se Nae aay |
Caress ey ESO, ‘  — giR
Lee Phe ad ii Bares 88 F 2 | BN AS = 2 > 4
eae, MEM ee Ben YRS HES. PN he Be Ge hen re ea 0 ha co Rage
Pathas pear he am TIS is eee ee ey qacmithiCanyon!- NortMrore
Weg mess Bhai fe RY 4 TREN Lig t Son ie GE IN an he tae ee " —"
se") eae Lat & Sr ata ag ee Swe RS ge al, Ley, , ~ ;
Hor Rogen ae Meee Pa Bg pe —
BO, 0.0m) Sheesh i icadet ene vee .e po Nia ide
“sam Miles 9 ite Gee y (a Oe
- Map Legend -
. : . . = . 7 N
@ cxisting Taihead Points Urban Trails Natural Trails Ee ctveoundary N
=a Existing ==ee= Existing PIBNnING Seal IX
== = Proposed == == Proposed aN
~--e= Potential ~---= Potential
eo
34 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

Plan ning Areas and recreation, or possibly as part of daily life
Planning areas have been included in this SRG, SUGHIAS GUOREIEY SEnGGl, f Jar
shopping.
master plan to help analyze the open space PPING
needs of each neighborhood and connections . . a
between algtberieeds in the city. Planning The goal is to link these activity areas together to
; hemi f form the basis and backbone for a robust open
areas boundaries were determined on physical oo P
yen space network of places, activities and paths.
, Examining these elements at a regional, city-
¢ Activity Centers were identified. These wide, ane neigh nemneed planningiansa soale
represent areas and locations that people allow the identification of gaps and needs in the
; ‘ a system.
will frequent on a regular basis. Activity areas y
are divided into three classifications on a .
subjective level of use Planning areas also look beyond the borders
» Open space and recreation centers were beyond other planning areas, but also the city.
identified This plan is not intended to impose goals ora
oo . vision on adjacent jurisdictions, but rather to
¢ The pedestrian and cycling network was ; .
thoroughly mapped explore options that may be mutually beneficial
and help enhance the quality of life of our
These three math components helo Identity neighbors, as well as take advantage of nearby
where people are likely to go to enjoy open resources outside the city. Therefore, planning
space, whether in the classical sense of parks area boundaries do not always coincide with city
boundaries.
A ee Cie as #8) fa Knudsen's Corner, ' ; i aa:
eS Cai De on ater
: + A {Union} “Te \Whitmore fg . reds ~ ie i . |
= Ga". ; on ak ‘ A : Butler, Bench me . el ae :
eS eS Little Cottonwood Creek -Valley * :
B oc) Bessie ark he — i — ea Ss
Pier BM gerade (a ead esa peeves | Petes wd Ai
eeesigue, Lane Gn Share A pune M ea ee
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 35

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Union
: = , Z
bd
- a 4 RIE ; a
——E7~—_ rs - 7 . > E ; fo « -
o "e z= J . e - i ' “y 4 , q
atten 4 or» =
byshactg ; if > r — if
S$ ' B=) biwe Ho g ; ae : en “e
3 ; 4 ; ee
eo s *® 4 *
A ame 5B, i. :
iy Gp £ es Colebrook (neem nna
' < —_—— ae . a al . Fy 5 3
Sg Oe | ( I : = |
yi oe — ¥ Se t a : ; | . s*
4 ES _—— - ¢ ~ > ; | 4
F » ~ ‘ A
ge Rs SA Brighton
. \\ 3 Cottonwood
. % CreekyValle
0 0.2 0.4 0.6
«Map Lagan ~ ee |V\iles
&) Existing Trailhead Points Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
mmm Existing sm Existing B® Private Existing N
@) Exbting Open space Nis |g, @e Proposed © @ @ Proposed nel Private,Proposed A
oy Planned Trailhead Points ~~ ~ ~ Potential Eg Public, Existing | \
ie E23) semi-Public, Existing aN
(&} Planned Open Space Points Planning areas i
ES] cityBoundary
36 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Colebrook
t 4 ral
ee &
e : ‘ LA rf a.¢ _E seh, afd? .
_ b pe ig le Q 2? v | ‘CQ
ca ‘ ‘ . y A ‘ ee is 2 Si ; ‘a |
: il eee he ee . En peg hitmore
3 we | Be UNION FaLvo) . alts an
emt bm : Srae® ” é "aly 3a} Pir tics } FORTS UNION B BLVD)
aay if ° * 7 " : - F
uy pe , >, . pre ‘ Si & bel . tae ‘ *4 ~~ re @
ry eo y 2 4 : : 5 '
boee 3 ipo : ! ra j Pie . .“ nD Dy : ‘ ’ : 7 ts
| ad : ; . = . ‘ fan ES , * - , ~
: : Sl * Paeait ,  ¢ 4 ae ; ~
= i '* , . oe : . ‘
| 7 H va , : . ; S P .
ee “wr $4 te Pe et ee 4 : : 6
* 4 | s , * zg ne ah
OF = ' ; | > . ? oe 8 : > 2 Bes i
: } % Brighton
Cottonwood
Creek,Valley Se ¢
0 0.2 0.4 0.6
- Map Legend - = ______ sereeson Miles
) Existing Trailhead Points Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
Sictien & P Slike me Existing em Existing ZZ Private, Existing N
BF sting pen space Foin'S @ @e Proposed @ © Proposed — §MBY Private,Proposed i
Ke Planned Trailhead Points ~~” ~ Potential ES Public Existing y \
= E23) Semi-Public, Existing | AN
(B} Planned Open Space Points Planning areas ‘ :
| | CityBoundary
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 37

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Crestwood
Ce , : 7 ew oe Eee
%, { Y ‘ a | :
pA ee q } ® . ie -
A: j | y e rele ft “ : - | 2
a B . ~ z b ou
ey : = Colebrook $i bites 5 fee aAz
f “it : ~ 3 }
9 : ; eS y &
Be aE ar ige bom ge Ai 4 Phat Whitmore
. \ 4 ‘ ‘ a = . ; | ee
We J). Lys .f. ~ , '
| ; ’ ed P ' Poke : - rT “~
\ z | — = ~¥ " . ~ = 5 -
AS. (EP ht! : ‘ . i. te went Brighton Ramer
~ | a .9 at Y R
ba) ea | : » ave C4 ~ |
x Y; ae + | 4 o} P= mS
4 os * BN ’ ’ . ‘ ss ‘ Pp Sy
NGS ey . t, |
~ he ? ee '] * ‘ "
\ Sree a - |
‘ rs Wt Cottonwood sian |
» Sey Fenn B. » tee Pe eS = Dav is
i’ & { Op, oe : a ‘ 3 Creek,Valley, !
cer es bt Ro % F so. wit > f Ms / a
i ig A i ON
7 \ " * 74 © ed -
" ™— Ld ~ 4 i a 7 '
. ¥ ® = 3 -
~ " b 2 “7 j = —
Ties EES ee as
t . sd ~, i* oe if eee oh
0 0.2 0.4 0.6
= Map Legend « eae Miles
&) Existing Trailhead Points Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
- mmm Existing = Existing (22® Private, Existing N
@) Existing Open Space Points 4g » Proposed ©® ®@ @ Proposed RQ Private, Proposed A
oi Planned Trailhead Points ~~ ~~ Potential GM) Public, Existing y A:
‘ E23) Semi-Public, Existing y\\
ee. . ; J \
(&} Planned Open Space Points Planning areas
| | CityBoundary
38 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Little Cottonwood Creek Valley
 iemedlies Colebrook Same aS] 3
? A. ~ : Qn, B by
~~ wa uy
: . op = . ° : *
- Q a — ‘ ‘. « .
Saxe | fA : meee Brighton -
’ | . ' ae a .
: R ~~ sid * 9 :
= : Ns ; : Pa Y
- 4 oF, Lt J — - | on an
: , pe . . * ' 2 sl ; _
7 4? =. (
BIW 5 wa Cottonwood ty =
Ls yom Creek, Valley am. > Holt |
~"¥ ae Prgh ™ : . : p# Py {Danish
ee eee ae iO wll s ne Town
] _ . e's 7 ots e $ i ‘ 7 ; x a ae ~
} / ~e <9 as 4 J a re a € C
i ] t - - a ¥ hae * : " _ | Cr
| 54 a oe 8. -) Ree PE | ASD |
renee ae an as —— GREEK RD rents Sunn ; -
* - x
’ PI ee, ik ¢ |
| i,
0 0.2 0.4 0.6
> ae ee ee _———eraaeg MViles
Existing Trailhead Points Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
- mmm Existing mmm Existing PB Private, Existing N
Existing Open Space Points . . Proposed © @ @ Proposed (82) Private,Proposed i
mS Planned Trailhead Points ~~ ~~ Potential ) Public, Existing | \
me 23] Semi-Public, Existing | AN
\&) Planned Open Space Points Planning areas ‘ }
EES] cityBoundary
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 39

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Brighton
ee | "Oke ll ze Old Mill
aye as | FORT UNION § BLVD] FORT UNION BLVD FORTA
onl oy sy Dos é i : ‘ P = * .
= Vl oi ite tie Peel ae , Seems Butler, Bench
Colebrook . it s E MS Res ; : -. ;
‘is % : ; Vv =, ~ aah ag e -. P i t of ;
7 { - Zo aA ; 7 0 ws ry ‘ ’ ee - : ‘
te, = t77- “oe a > “s! a5" - te . .
eT FT oe ge Fe Tn agg LEP ae ee oe Pe ie Butlerville
>a . 7 a " © 4AS 7 ; <a ie ee ay 5 M at os
| - = ; oo . A "* ' a com e~ : =4 Z Vs 13, |
. i wv) =~ “ - 5,2 4 ; <a\s oe 2 ae nur @ dj dtacd . _
; . . b=) Syke orf ; JA = 5) va ie 4 > wee
Se, -, wie a Brighton "= Set ;
3 ‘y & > a. .. ‘<: y - rt . a ’ ‘ a : > t ;
; | 2 Sa 2 4 — oe : a. 4, - Tes ~ .
= 4 a te . RN | ¢ : ¥
~ " . “§ z yi e - . es : dt ‘We Fs Xs n
7 Ss + , : are ~ | | amet .
oy ot : 5 . ea. OT | ‘eis
Crestwood] 2 ve eo oae . pa Pa oP, Se :
ee = Creek,Valley, im, Te Es Neo: »
: ery 4 a co — aN “i
i ? + ‘ g . >
extort ea ih ee GREEK RD camnammnaeeeseseneetil - Se
: \ - o ‘ \ : 4! -
, ° ce & & :
0 O2 0.4 0.6
= Map Legend « ES ___~ “aa Miles
Existing Trailhead Points Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
- _ meme Existing =m Existing (2B Private, Existing N
Existing Open Space Points @®@e Proposed @ @ ® Proposed AQ Private,Proposed /
=~ oe 3 _— , \
Gi} Planned Trailhead Points Potential HG] Public,Existing A\
is 23) semi-Public, Existing yW\
“> PEON
\&) Planned Open Space Points Planning areas
So
ES cityBoundary
40 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Whitmore
, a = - i ae mw? Ll. er
—a A ot 7: Pi * ‘J % - ee . 4
—— | e +e cee n ‘ - . aoe >
i] é« . w& 3 ‘ 3 ’ Pe
7 = ) 2 - " eek. Knudsen's
i 2 2
eesae aon WE — : % ~ Corner,
=m : 1 - ' > rs >= : ” hos e . e, ‘
| - | : . ue
: iH “<< dvac vr ee . ; " ; “> t ; “y .
f FA es ? ls om it A 7 ?. _ OER es
oO | $ - @ . 2 , < o
z ue 7 > j ey . * Ps .
$ a » i” » ; i ’ y . Ling oo
x hi? aaa Cy A dete :
= . r2e.. ~ ‘ = ; i on .
we | . ‘ “da. : : P &
a * . . oe - f . rf
Colebrook jam ate yg | Diawritno a wl, gy
] " > r ‘ J ct 2 ~
6 I —, | 4 Se,
‘ Bs THT & s* Sx oe
Pe thy ° i har 7 ok came ae ie Butler, Bench a
i . a - ~@ : "
, ra Ww ae ’ A y on . a / tal ‘ = “
ats ove. r wl 2 , ae: # ey by = ? r
3 t ; ed sdicman t N Bs > ,~ . us” “@. , ‘ : ?
ad ; 4 =< yes Ko ~ .* }
q : Py & 6 ~”~ t eet - ut , . co j i? 2 : ~-
~ 4 M4 _ i: o <e « P 6
» om s & o+ ; : 4 val . en ia
ob « f , . : ae, ae e el © ee ,
2 <6 ' TERS SO A 4 ,
= - ’ aa , ~~ a | a ee
9 rT Y core ~ é /- a — ; ‘2 .
= { q ‘a ee Ded I w 6 A
— wy g > . . = | t or |
J hte a ; fips “yas  ° ®s Brighton ; (Taf a
f —————————_—_—=_=—_———_— —_— +3 y a . : "
—_—* 3 niet te ran
7 2 ae a : Ce ei:
b = a * «a “ oo. “+
0) 0.2 0.4 0.6
«Map Legend ~ ees |Viles
Existing Trailhead Points Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
mmm Existing em Existing (2A Private, Existing N
Existing Open Space Points @@e Proposed ©® ® ® Proposed ral Private, Proposed I
—~ * m ae :\
(H) Planned Trailhead Points ° "~~ Potential EG Public, Existing A \
al [2 semi-Public, Existing a
(R) Planned Open Space Points Planning areas ;
Ss
[ESI cityBoundary
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 41

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Knudsen's Corner
é ; = ap ‘ } 7A nn
: } '
err = \
. 3 e RE, ij di an « -
. ; PS -* s nd f 7, 4 ~~ =
~~ a r < wes ‘ 4 '* “2 Ki : ; ; $ }
Seat oe | ee re O02 ee a
e ce Wg Reh aay, By Sh Bee - = Corner er / % JS k
‘ hie mk ry x Be ¢ Ben ad _ ag { ‘
Ter ~ : b Neca. AD ai . cy oP be - .
: * = =} at a. . +, ee es =i mi ¢. aS er > j
ro e 25 4 = “ 4s ao. ow 2g nh j Pe 4 z 4 WY, ‘i
5 a ? tr ey » ” i ie ae 4 : ‘ 4 y m
+ 1, hes dt * = f bet : ; ve
|e a tee ba} ag SAK }
- 2 oe ot . > ed j ‘ Rr wy
; ; _ : a 4 Butler, Bench aN ;
ial £ .-¥ ‘ .
i 2 “ &. ya “ies. ; A
Be : = : iad =" : “ ¥. ip . .
O- | 0.2 0.4 0.6
- Map Legend - ee ____——s Miles
Existing Trailhead Points Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
mmm Existing mm Existing (B® Private, existing N
Existing Open Space Points ., og Proposed © @ @ Proposed (82) Private,Proposed A
OR Planned Trailhead Points ~~ ~~ Potential EGG] Public Existing A\
2x5 3] semi-Public,Existing IN
cy Planned Open Space Points Planning areas ;
EE] cityBoundary
42 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Butler Bench
iG : 8 : ss FA 2 — é
¢ & C_. ——
Saye | + .
4. RE ieee pet NO SPS
% . Ln < m we + ’ rity - «i ‘
# r) of
~ - ‘n ; o ?
7 a 2 ; e ‘ ' = - , on " t - ul «
“ ne ae \ 2 or ; a a . ra » ad
if Hd es ; » - : 4 F ; , : ae , > " q
ON BLVD ; ,7000, SB "Butler, Bench sh
| ~" ‘a . F.., bs So , 7 . g& e t : tel a4 > = »
~ “ep S- ieee 2 « oe ~ . , ’
Fis d > 7 r] -” ~_ mn, - : #4 - a
i ne a : be , i Sd
e wf aN ae et fod Ge wip y So od nie eae ee,
wt wv? a iam Pe oa . ee. yy = *@ 5 , ' or ‘<r ’ ats sae : Sap
& #4 ri ” oe “ Pe Bn is ws Met yb et ; A P "aig ’
> | 8 a Se ee eg Ge gr eE Breads, f
‘ , 8 a ‘ P | .
Fy : > 4 e zg f) ’ : ®
és a : i "3
4 , wes a, Butlerville '
“.. ea Crighton i ri
wus va ie ae) . ‘ .
> 4 “ | oF ac ; iz # :
’ ~ ’ ‘ | a - :
r . -_ r eS 3 £ s , c . ° ‘
* . ,* ja ate do sh ‘ , a » v we ‘ :
*, , a a . : : " 7 - ; 5
O- 0.2 0.4 0.6
~ Map Legend - Pie ___ eras [Viles
Existing Trailhead Points + Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
mmm Existing === Existing [22® Private, Existing N
Exiang Open Space POS se Proposed © ® ® Proposed MQRP Private, Proposed A
CAS Planned Trailhead Points” °°” ‘Potential Ea] Public, Existing y \
= (23) semi-Public, Existing | AN
(&) Planned Open Space Points Planning areas “ ;
EES] cityBoundary
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 43

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Old Mill
>: vA
© \ = ;
8 |
Butler, Bench Jie % ; \ 2 Ya \
i: — Sew \ lt \
3 Re, se . \
: Butlerville \
‘ { : Fa ; Semm en \
=a Brighton " \
A aaa i = - , \
fs ~ Wasatch =e, g '
0 O02 04 06
~ Map hegend - ees Miles
ff) Existing Trailhead Points Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
7 mmm Existing «= Existing $2® Private, Existing N
@) Existing Open Space Points . . « proposed © @ @ Proposed QQRB Private, Proposed i
oh Planned Trailhead Points ~~” ~ Potential EE Public.Existing A \
[3] Semi-Public,Existing JN
ey) Planned Open Space Points Planning areas :
EES] cityBoundary
44 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Butlerville
B> VA
i a V4
as Vu
9) y,
i Old Mill fp
Butler,Bench Re Mo
te eh Butlerville
> , 1 ¥-oF ion .
: - Stes 7 ®amm en
Brighton te ee ne, of env ’ <a (+ ee
i \ e .. a ex : ; PRs |
" = ta é
in 8 ? > ay
0 O02 04 0.6
> Map (Legend ~ aes Miles
Existing Trailhead Points © Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
- mmm Existing mmm Existing (ZZ Private, Existing N
Existing Open Space Points . Proposed © @ ®@ Proposed (SR) Private, Proposed N
CR Planned Trailhead Points "°° ~ Potential EE Public Existing | \
pall £2) semi-Public, Existing a
® Planned Open Space Points Planning areas :
EJ cityBoundary
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 45

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Wasatch
f= Knudsen's eee Old Mill Sf
fe Corner aia A
on 4
\ q
Butler, Bench Bis X a
as) oa. a \ | a, \
. \ vd \
Whitmore ’ ss A not
arose po Sa, ~. : \
r3 Butlerville
SS ‘
a Brighton ie e ~~ * \
= 4 y ri fA. Bt
Race) Pai blew tt 9 Pa
a ———— ——_ SS 7 xe
. \ A ,
SB aa
et
0 0.2 0.4 0.6
~ Map [egend ~ ee Miles
Existing Trailhead Points + Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
5 mm Existing =m Existing 2B Private, Existing N
Existing Open Space Points ®®® Proposed @ ® @ Proposed aval Private, Proposed h
Ch Planned Trailhead Points ~~~ ~ Potential EG) Public, Existing | \
al [223] Semi-Public,Existing I 4 \\
‘#) Planned Open Space Points Planning areas .
_ [EJ cityBoundary
46 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Danish Town
_ 7] Whitmore j Butler, Bench jaeecm Mea, a Old Mill \
: $722 i Butlerville
‘ mm Brighton \ & ay .
} a : WA
> | St rtin ‘Wasatch ee! aa aa
4 bet
Cottonwood aa ———— —
Creek Valley 2" a »
aa ; Sh ae
\ p Y
0 02 04 0.6
- Map Legend - aes Miles
Existing Trailhead Points + Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
- mmm Existing = Existing 2B Private, Existing N
Existing Open Space Points .  _ Proposed © @ ®@ Proposed (92%) Private, Proposed A
ow Planned Trailhead Points ~~ ~ ~ Potential EEG Public, Existing y \
i 2] semi-Public, Existing I 4 \\
\&} Planned Open Space Points Planning areas :
[EJ cityBoundary
Open Space Master Plan Recommendations | 47

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS OPEN SPACE Planning Area: Granite
PAW Butler, Bench fae Vas Old ball iii.’
Whitmore Th \
ea hs es Butlerville \,
] %==o \,
~ \
Te =I ra a
Ps " = . ‘ \
fi VA <d XG of \
Brighton \ « . )
Ny | \
Little a eee | \
Cottonwood fies - Ven SN /
SM Ua Danish Town) oe a
Ba a
a 8 el , . 2 fo
\ 3 3c - —
0 0.20.40.6
- Map Legend - ees Miles
Gi) Existing Trailhead Points + Urban Trails Natural Trails Existing Open Space
- em Existing mmm Existing $B Private, Existing N
@) Existing Open Space Points ®@e Proposed @ @ @ Proposed SZ Private, Proposed (
oy Planned Trailhead Points ~~ ~~ Potential EB Public, Existing 4 \
[23] semi-Public, Existing i \
a Planned Open Space Points Planning areas
EES] cityBoundary
48 | Recommendations Cottonwood Heights

Open Space Acquisition * 1) Site Context
Open Space Acquisition Criteria * a. To what extent is the property located
The acquisition process for open space is one pearemiar protected endsrer genie
of the most important aspects of the planning tee aie eet Bute
process. Choosing the criteria and method the es MIS Soros y coniripure t0 a .
city uses to purchase open space lands and . S erm a = ts ue Na cicia °
guide developers in setting aside critical open c's re ee et ‘ properly fategic
space helps to ensure that the city spends ae hanes anger a
: ‘ - ¢ d. Should preservation of this property be
money wisely and in a manner that citizens iority d a h
would prefer. The criteria set forth in this chapter @ priomly due an imminent purchase or
: 7 —_ as development?
are intended to solidify the direction citizens ae
‘ : ‘ * e. How compatible is the proposed open
have given through this planning process. : ‘
space and/or recreational uses of this
. . ”
Identifying and prioritizing open space criteria parooh wit ihe adlacent land See
is a key step in the open space planning ¢ f. Is the project included in any County or
i ?
process. Citizens, the City Council, the Planning in eilieienel iaiiies
C issi d City staff will k togeth
ommission an ny Stam Win Wore togemer * 2) Scenic/Aesthetic/Sense of Place
to prioritize which open space parcels are : :
appropriate for purchase or preservation © Bieter Rea aniy precons Coane
, scenic views of Wasatch Mountains, the
The maps included in this plan identify desirable soaall Leaks! Meloy, SUNIOUUICAIING IGE, et
ws : other features that contribute to the sense
opportunities for future open spaces and trails. . .
: —— : 3 of place that is Cottonwood Heights?
The information included in these maps is ; a. :
, . . . . ¢ b. Will the acquisition preserve important
intended to help direct the City Council, Planning ; .
—_ views from roads, natural trails, or other
Commission and staff to areas that may contain . . .
: a prominent public locations?
attributes worth preserving; these maps are .
. ; * c. To what extent will the property
not designed to show specific properties for . ; ;
; ; . : enhance the quality of life for City
preservation or final alignments for future trails. ; _.
: : a residents and visitors?
Each potential open space site or trail will need
. . . ¢ d. Does the property serve as a
to be evaluated and studied on a site specific ;
aesl community buffer or separator?
, * e. Does the property help maintain a
Each new potential open space or trail should sense of agricultural tradition and rural
— —_ character?
be individually evaluated to assess the project’s
overall value to the open space system. Staff
mi : ; P P y ¢ 3) Outdoor Recreation/Public Use
should consider the following key factors when . . ,
prioritizing specific projects: ¢ a. What is the potential for public use and
, outdoor recreation on this property?

* b. To what extent does this property
provide opportunity to integrate public use
into a larger recreation network?

Open Space Master Plan Implementation | 49

¢ c. What opportunities for outdoor * d. To what extent does the property
recreation does this property provide? provide a buffer to minimize the disruption
¢ d.Are the activities considered of ecological processes on already
appropriate with the ecological, physical protected land?
and social environment? * e. Will acquisition of this property protect
wetlands or other biologically sensitive
¢ 4) Public Support Factors riparian areas?
¢ a. ls this a high profile acquisition from the ¢ f. Are water rights available?
public perspective? * g. What is the potential for habitat
¢ b. Will acquisition of this property serve as restoration?
a catalyst for other acquisitions? « h.Are there any environmental liabilities
¢ c. Will acquisition of this property in the or hazards associated with the property?
manner proposed serve as a positive
example for other landowners? * 7) Historical/Archaeological
* d. Is there a willing seller? * a. Does the property contain significant
archaeological, historical, or cultural
¢ 5) Price resources?
¢ a. ls the price reasonable given current
supply and demand and net present ¢ 8) Education
value? * a. Are there educational opportunities
* b. Is the landowner willing to reduce associated with this property?
the cost to the City for charitable or tax
purposes? * 9) Does the project contribute to a balanced
« c. Are there opportunities for cost sharing? open space system based on:
« d.Can the goals of the City’s Open Space * a. Geographic distribution?
Program be achieved with less than fee * b. Project type?
simple acquisition? ¢ c. Urgent/immediate demands and long
* e.Willthe property become more =—C.__ termgoals?  — ——
expensive or developed if not acquired * d. Population distribution?
now?
¢ f.Are the projected annual management
and maintenance costs acceptable and
reasonable?
¢ 6) Environment/Ecology
* a. Does the property have special value
for wildlife preservation or does it act as a
wildlife corridor?
* b. Does the acquisition preserve lands
critical to an animal protection?
¢ c. Will the acquisition preserve unusual
terrain or unique environmental,
geological, or ecological features?
50 | Implementation Cottonwood Heights

Funding Strategies Grants & Programs
The following options are available to Various Federal, State, County, and other
Cottonwood Heights for the implementation of grants are available for the development and
the plan recommendations: maintenance of open space, parks, trails, tree
placement and urban fisheries, including:
City General Fund * County ZAP Tax
The city’s general fund is the primary financial * Transportation & Land Use Connection (TLC)
source for general government operations. The * Central Wasatch Commission (CWC)
major sources for this fund are property taxes, ° Healthy Salt Lake
sales taxes, energy taxes, and other fees. Each ° Community Development Block Grants
city department makes expenditures based on * Utah Office of Outdoor Recreation Grants
the city budget approved each year by the City * County Tourism, Recreation, Culture &
Council. The City Council may propose funding Convention (TROC) Grants
in future budgets for parks, trails, and open ° Federal Recreational Trails Program (RTP)
space projects that achieve the goals of this * National Park Service Rivers, Trails, and
plan. Conservation Assistance (RTCA) Program
* Transportation Alternatives Program (TAP)
Impact Fees * UDOT Surface Transportation Program (STP)
The city should explore the possibility of adopting : .
a parks impact fee for new development and Private Donations .
redevelopment. Impact fees can help offset the Private donations through fundraising, adopt-
impacts of new development as the city grows. a-park or adopt-a-trail programs, corporate
partnerships, and local volunteer efforts could be
Bonds used to support open space projects. The city
Bonds can be used by the city to finance public could consider a program to allow individuals
open space projects. General obligation bonds a make “micro donations" to cover the cost of
are secured by and repaid from property taxes specific park amenities like benches.
and must be approved by a majority of voters
in a bond election. A bond election allows Development & Redevelopment ;
Cottonwood Heights voters to approve a loan The dedication of land for parks, trails, and active
on property tax increases, which can be a transportation Improvements can be required
good revenue source for projects with a broad by the cu during the development process, as
appeal to the public, but may not be appropriate required by the city code. Easements for future
if a project is viewed by constituents as non- trails can be required on private property in
exveesritieal developed areas as redevelopment occurs on
individual parcels.
Open Space Master Plan Implementation | 51

