COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 386
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING
AN AMENDED COMPENSATION SCHEDULE
FOR ELECTED AND APPOINTED (STATUTORY) OFFICERS

WHEREAS, on 5 July 2022, acting pursuant to its authority under UTAH CODE ANN. §10-
3-818, the city council (the “Councif’) of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) met in a
regular meeting to consider, among other things, reviewing and potentially amending the
compensation schedule for the City’s elected and appointed (statutory) officers; and

WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-818(2) provides, among other things, that Council
set a time and place for a public hearing regarding the adoption or amendment of a compensation
schedule for such officers; and

WHEREAS, the Council set 6:30 p.m. on 19 July 2022 at 2277 East Bengal Blvd.,
Cottonwood Heights, Utah as the time and place of a public hearing regarding the adoption of such
amended compensation schedule; and

WHEREAS, UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-818(3) provides, among other things, that at least
seven days prior to the hearing, notice of the time, place and purpose of the meeting be published
(a) in at least one issue of a newspaper of general circulation in the City, and (b) on the Utah Public
Notice Website created in UTAH CODE ANN. §63A-16-601: and

WHEREAS, notice of the public hearing was timely published as required by statute; and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was held at 6:30 p.m., or soon thereafter, on 19 July 2022 at
2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah, where all interested persons were given the
opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed amended compensation
schedule; and

WHEREAS, on 19 July 2022 the Council voted to continue the public hearing until 6:30
p.m. on 2 August 2022 at 2277 East Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah; and

WHEREAS, the public hearing, as continued, was held on 2 August 2022 at 2277 East
Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah, where all interested persons were given the opportunity
to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed amended compensation schedule; and

WHEREAS, on 2 August 2022 the Council met in regular session to consider, among
other things, amending the compensation schedule as proposed; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the comments, the Council has determined that
it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to amend the
compensation schedule for its elected and appointed (statutory) officers;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption _of Amended Compensation Schedule. The Council hereby
adopts the amended compensation schedule that is attached as an exhibit hereto as the
compensation schedule applicable to the City’s elected and appointed (statutory) officers specified
therein from and after the date specified therein.

Section 2. Future Amendment. The Council shall have, and hereby expressly
reserves, the right to hereafter further amend the attached compensation schedule at any time or
from time to time in compliance with all applicable legal requirements.

Section 3. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 4. Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 5. Repealer. A\l ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 6. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 386, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 2™ day of August 2022.

ATTEST: Nee —<““4.¢ COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
; y 022 CHS z ..
Paula M gar, Recorde Efe ichael T. Weichérs. , Mayor
PS Omron OTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea ‘< Nay
Douglas Petersen Yeay< Nay.
J. Scott Bracken Yea Nay __
Shawn E. Newell Yea ra Nay
Ellen Birrell Yea % Nay
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 2"! day of August 2022.
POSTED this 3 day of August 2022.
2

COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
COMPENSATION SCHEDULE FOR
ELECTED AND STATUTORY OFFICERS
(JULY 2022)
The elected and statutory officers of Cottonwood Heights (the “city”) shall be compensated as
follows:
Elected Officials

(a) The annual salary of the mayor shall be $40,000.

(b) The annual salary of each city council member (“councilmember’) shall be
$22,500.

(c) Effective July 1* of each year, commencing 1 July 2023, the annual salaries of the
mayor and councilmembers (“Elected Officials”) shall be automatically granted a cost-of-living
percentage adjustment (a “COLA”) equal to the same COLA percentage adjustment granted to city
staff as of that July 1*. If, for example, (a) if Councilmember A’s annual salary specified above is
$22,500 as of 30 June 2023, and (b) city staff is granted a three percent (3.0%) COLA adjustment
as of | July 2023, then Councilmember A’s COLA-adjusted annual salary for the period of 1 July
2023 through 30 June 2024 would be $12,000 x 1.03 = $23,175, which would determine both the
monthly salary for Councilmember A during the city’s 2023-2024 fiscal year and also would be
the base salary used for a possible COLA percentage adjustment to Councilmember A’s salary on
1 July 2024.

(d) Each Elected Official may elect to use their salary to participate in benefits offered
by the city such as medical, dental and group life insurance and “Section 125 Plan” subject to the
rules and regulations thereof. Non-contributory retirement benefits also shall be provided to the
Elected Officials.

(d) Because the Elected Officials represent city on many County and State level
committees and functions, they are required to use their personal vehicles for city business-related
travel and will be compensated for such travel expense through monthly stipends of $400 for the
mayor and $200 for each councilmember.

(e) The Elected Officials also shall receive reimbursement for all other reasonable
expenses related to performance of their duties.

Manager

(a) Because the City is organized in the council-manager form of municipal
government, the office of city manager is a statutory, full-time position. The annual salary of the
manager shall be as provided in any employment agreement between the city manager and the city
from time to time which is approved by the city council, or as otherwise approved by the city

3

council as part of its annual budgeting process for city. The manager also shall be entitled to such
discretionary, incentive bonuses as the city council may direct from time to time. As a salaried
employee, the manager shall not be entitled to overtime pay.

(b) Benefits shall be provided to the manager for non-contributory retirement; for
medical, dental, disability, group life and any other insurance coverage; and for any other
customary benefits, in the same manner, if any, provided to other full-time city employees.

(c) Because the manager is required to be on-call 24 hours per day, seven days a week,
the manager shall be provided with (1) either a city-owned cell phone or a monthly cell phone
allowance, and (2) a monthly car allowance, all as provided in any employment agreement between
the city manager and the city from time to time which is approved by the city council, or as
otherwise approved by the city council as part of its annual budgeting process for city.

(d) | The manager also shall receive reimbursement for all reasonable expenses related
to performance of the manager’s duties.

(ce) City shall pay for the manager’s travel and attendance at the ICMA’s annual
conference, the UCMA annual conference, and the Utah League of Cities and Towns’ annual
conference in accordance with the travel policies approved from time to time by the city council.
City also shall pay for the manager’s attendance at other seminars, conferences and committee
meetings as are approved in city’s annual budget or as are authorized separately from time to time
by the city council.

Appointed Officers

(a) City’s Recorder, Director of Finance/Budget Officer, Treasurer, Engineer and
Chief of Police are full-time, statutory appointed officers of city (“Appointed Officers”). The
annual salary of each of the Appointed Officers shall be as approved by the city council as part of
its statutory annual budgeting process for city. Each Appointed Officer also shall be entitled to
such discretionary, incentive bonuses as the manager may direct from time to time from amounts
budgeted by the city council for employee bonuses.

(b) _—_ Benefits shall be provided to each of the Appointed Officers for non-contributory
retirement and medical, dental, disability and group life insurance in the same manner, if any,
provided to other full-time city employees.

(c) Each Appointed Officer shall also receive reimbursement for all reasonable
expenses related to performance of his/her duties.

Attorney

(a) The office of city attorney will be a part-time position performed on a contract
basis. The city attorney shall be compensated as approved by the city council through its statutory
annual budgeting process for city.

4

(b) The city attorney shall also receive reimbursement for all reasonable expenses
related to performance of his/her duties, including but not limited to mileage allowance in the same
amount allowed by the Internal Revenue Service pursuant to §162 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986.

General

The compensation paid hereunder shall be effective 1 July 2022; shall be subject to any and all
applicable payroll taxes and withholdings; and shall be paid in accordance with the city’s payroll
procedures and practices adopted from time to time.
