COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 378
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 14.44 AND TITLE 19 OF
THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
REGARDING WATERWISE LANDSCAPING

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 ef seq., as amended (the “Ac?’”), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission’s recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the City; and

WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the legislative body (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for
the City and codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City’s code of ordinances (the ““Code”);
and

WHEREAS, thereafter, the City’s planning commission (the “Planning Commission’)
formulated proposed amendments (the “Amendments”) to Chapter 14.44 and Title 19 of the Code
concerning waterwise landscaping standards for the city; and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission where citizens
were given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed
Amendments; and

WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended the
Amendments to the Council for adoption; and

WHEREAS, the Council subsequently took additional public comment concerning the
Amendments; and

WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with the Amendments, a copy of
which is annexed as an exhibit to this ordinance, including any amendments proposed by the
Council to the form of the Amendments recommended for adoption by the Planning Commission,
as authorized by UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-502(2); and

WHEREAS, on 5 April 2022 the Council met in regular meeting to consider, among other

things, amending the Code to enact the Amendments, including any such revisions; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings, and other relevant input,
the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City to adopt and enact the Amendments as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amendments. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendments in the form of the attached exhibit, wherein deletions to the current affected
ordinances are strucithrough or otherwise shown as deletions and additions to the current affected
ordinances are underlined or otherwise shown as additions.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 378, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 5" day of April 2022.

ATTEST: wie BES OTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
at SD _
SE rae ;
<2 @: 4 :
Paula felgar, Recorder” \ 55 /. Michael T. Weichers, Mayor
eS Pr ees
ogy VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea <= Nay
Douglas Petersen Yea X Nay
J. Scott Bracken Yea y Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea ~ Nay
Ellen Birrell Yea Xx Nay
=

DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 5" day of April 2022.
POSTED this __ day of April 2022.
3

EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 378
Chapter 14.44
SHADE TREES AND PARK STRIP LANDSCAPING
Sections:
14.44.010 Care of trees.
14.44.020 Park strip design standards.
14.44.030 Park strip tree standards.
14.44.040 Condemnation and removal of trees.
14.44.010 Care of trees.

A. Purpose. The city recognizes the importance of trees within the community. The purpose
of this ordinance is to promote the general welfare of the city and its residents by establishing and
maintaining the maximum possible amount of canopy coverage provided by trees in order to
improve air quality, water quality, conservation of energy, biodiversity and habitat, roadway
longevity, and to decrease urban heat island effects, consumption of water, light and noise trespass,
driving speed, and impact on storm drainage.

B. City forester.

1. The director of the city’s community and economic development department (“CED”) shall
designate an employee or qualified independent contractor as the city's forester who shall:

(a) Be responsible for the long-term management, inventory, planting, and design of public
trees under city control in cooperation with the CED director;

(b) Maintain “partnerships” between public and private parties for the purposes specified in
subsection A, above;

(c) Coordinate with the department in the training of city crews or contract providers to ensure
the best methods of tree care are practiced in the city;

(d) Work with engineers, architects, and the CED during the design phase of project
development;

(e) Inspect trees installed as part of new development or redevelopment to ensure they meet
city requirements;

(f) When requested, assist city departments to determine if hazardous trees are present on
public or private property and to coordinate city measures to abate hazardous trees; and

(g) Pursue funding opportunities that allow for the maintenance of existing trees or the
addition of new trees.

2. If the CED director appoints a city employee to fulfill the role of city forester, the CED
director may also enter into a limited contract with a qualified independent contractor to perform
duties that city staff is unable or unqualified to perform.

C. City responsibilities. The city shall be responsible for the following, subject to availability
of appropriated funds for such purposes:

1. Tree care in city-owned and operated parks, on the grounds of city buildings and properties,
and in park strips that the city has determined will be maintained by the city.

2. Pruning of trees in the public right-of-way and public utility easements when necessary for
proper operation of city services or utilities.

3. Removal of hazardous trees, or the hazardous portions thereof, in the public-right-of-way
or city owned and operated parks.

4

4. Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §4-17-112, the city shall develop, implement, and pursue an
effective program for the control and containment of weeds and noxious weeds on all lands under
the city's control or jurisdiction, including highways, roadways, rights-of-way, and easements.

D. Hazardous trees on private property. \f a hazardous tree exists upon private property, the
property owner and all other persons having control of that private property shall be responsible
to mitigate, abate, remove, or correct the hazard. Any hazardous tree is a public nuisance.

1.No one, either as owner, agent, or occupant, may create, aid in creating, or maintain a
hazardous tree.

2.If the city determines that a particular tree is a hazardous tree on any private property, the
city may give a written notice to the owner of that property to mitigate, abate, remove, or correct
the hazardous tree.

(a) If the owner of private property where a hazardous tree exists does not mitigate, abate,
remove or correct the hazardous tree within 30 days after the city’s notice, the city may bring an
action to abate the hazardous tree as a public nuisance as outlined in Chapter 9.05, Cottonwood
Heights Code of Ordinances (“CHC”).

(b) A notice to mitigate, etc. a hazardous tree may be appealed per the provisions of CHC
Section 9.05.110.

3.In the event of an emergency created by a hazardous tree which poses threat of imminent
harm to person or property, the city or its agents may mitigate such hazard by all reasonable means,
including removal of the hazardous tree. Any associated costs incurred by the city shall be
reimbursed by the owner of the private property where the hazardous tree was located. The city
and its officers, employees and agents shall incur no liability if acting in good faith under this
section.

E. Protection of public trees.

1. The following actions toward any public tree within a public right-of-way or upon public
property without prior authorization by its owner are unlawful:

(a) Construction of any impervious or pervious landscaping, concrete, or asphalt within three
feet of the trunk of a public tree.

(b) Filling the ground area around any public tree so that air or water are shut off or materially
impeded from reaching the tree’s roots.

(c) Storage of material or equipment within three feet of a public tree.

(d) Fastening any sign, guywire, cable, or rope to any public tree, except for tree straps
intended to stabilize a public tree that are approved by its owner.

(e) Pouring or spraying injurious matter on or around a public tree.

(f) Posting any sign, tree stake, or guard in a manner that injures a public tree or its root system.

(g) Damaging any part of a public tree (roots, crown or trunk) so as to cause injury or death.

2. Any person performing construction, excavation, or demolition work within 15 feet of a
public tree shall protect the tree from injury or damage with a substantial protective barrier. The
barrier shall not be less than four feet high and have a radius around the tree that is the greater of
(a) three feet, or (b) a distance in feet from the tree equal to the diameter (in inches) of the tree
trunk measured four feet above ground. All building materials, extra dirt, or other debris shall be
kept outside the barrier. Any deviation to this standard must be pre-approved by the city forester.

3. No person shall use a public tree for any unauthorized purpose.

F. Violation and penalty. Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty
of a class C misdemeanor. If the violation of this chapter causes the injury, mutilation, or death of
a public tree, the violating party also shall pay the cost of repair or replacement of such tree. The
replacement value of public trees shall be determined in accordance with the latest edition of the
“Guide for Plant Appraisal” published by the International Society of Arboriculture, or a

5

comparable valuation guide adopted by the city. The city may pursue criminal or civil actions
against any person or entity who violates this chapter as is deemed appropriate, including
abatement or injunctive relief.

14.44.020 Park strip design standards.

A. General provisions. As required by Section 14.12.060, newly constructed park strips shall
be a minimum of five feet in width and located between the sidewalk and the curbline.

1. Landscaping standards. All park strips shall be landscaped as outlined in subsections (B)
and (C), below. Additionally:

(a) Except for trees, landscaping in park strips shall not exceed three feet in height. Except for
trees, vegetation may not extend horizontally beyond the planter strip.

(b) Water-efficient trees and landscaping is highly encouraged in all situations. Organic mulch
materials may be used as a water conservation measure for vegetation but shall not be used
exclusively as a landscaping material.

(c) Wasting water in park strips by significantly over-watering or over-spraying landscaped
areas, or by creating excess runoff, is highly discouraged.

(d) Prohibited materials include lawn, impervious hardscape landscaping, asphalt, thorn-
bearing vegetation, and other vegetation and materials determined to be a nuisance by the CED
director.

(e) Trash, debris, and weeds are prohibited within park strips.

(f) Owners of property adjacent to a right-of-way without curb and gutter are not required to
maintain landscaping within the public right-of-way.

2. Timing of required park strip improvements. Park strips shall be developed or restored to
the park strip landscaping design standards outlined in this chapter whenever new development or
redevelopment of a property occurs. Redevelopment is defined to occur when a property has a new
primary structure constructed that accommodates an approved principal zoning use.

(a) Existing park strips less than five feet in width do not require upgrading to five feet in
width until the adjacent property develops or redevelops and then only if the department anticipates
a minimum five-foot park strip will be required for the right-of-way in the future.

(b) Required landscaping in park strips shall be installed or upgraded per the standards of this
Chapter within two years of the issuance of building permits for any new structures that constitute
a primary zoning use for the site.

(c) Before any digging or excavation exceeding a depth of one foot is performed in any park
strip, Blue Stakes of Utah shall inspect the property and identify the location of utility lines. All
persons conducting work in a park strip shall follow any instructions provided by Blue Stakes of
Utah.

B. Landscaping for park strips over four feet in width.

1. One hundred percent of the park strip may be developed in softscape landscaping. Water-
efficient landscaping is highly encouraged.

2. No more than fifty percent of the park strip shall be developed in permeable hardscape
landscaping. Permeable hardscape sections shall be no more than ten feet in length and shall
alternate with softscape landscaped sections.

C. Park strips less than four feet in width.

1. One hundred percent of the park strip may be developed in softscape landscaping, although
water-efficient landscaping and permeable hardscape landscaping is highly encouraged.

2. Except for areas reserved for trees and tree buffers, up to one hundred percent of the park
strip area may be developed in permeable hardscape landscaping.

D. Double frontage lots. With the exception of the required planting bed of three feet on either
side of a tree trunk, any park strip adjacent to the rear property line may be landscaped with a

6

stamped concrete design and color designated by the city. The department shall select a uniform
standard for city-wide implementation for double frontage lots. Irrigation is required for any tree
within the double frontage planter strip.
14.44.030 Park strip tree standards.

A. Private property owner responsibilities. Property owners, and their occupants and agents,
shall have the following responsibilities for the protection of trees in park strips abutting their real
property:

1. Appropriate watering and fertilization to maintain good health of public trees in park strips.

2. Trees that overhang the street pavement shall be trimmed to a minimum height of 13.5 feet
above the street pavement.

3. The species of trees planted in the park strip shall be limited to those approved within the
city street tree guide or otherwise approved by the city forester.

(a) Trees that help develop a street canopy and shade at maturity are encouraged and preferred
over other tree species.

(b) Tree diversity is encouraged throughout the city. The city forester may, however, require
a limited list of tree species for key city streets, including Fort Union Boulevard, Highland Drive,
Wasatch Boulevard, Union Park Avenue, and Canyon Centre Parkway, as identified in the city
tree selection guide.

(c) Tree species selected for planting under power poles shall be those that grow no greater
than 20 feet in height at maturity.

4. Removal of limbs that have fallen upon a city street, property, or sidewalk.

5. Notify the city of any hazardous tree in the right-of-way.

6. Raking, cleanup, and properly disposing of debris leaves so leaf fall does not impede the
stormwater system.

7. The city shall have no liability for the failure of any tree or landscaping installed by private
parties other than on city-maintained property.

B. Park strips four feet or greater in width. Park strips four feet or greater in width shall be
planted with trees, which shall be:

1. Spaced not more than 25 feet apart, exclusive of driveway approaches;

2. Planted along the tree planting line;

3. A minimum two-inch caliper trunk size or twenty-gallon root ball container at the time of
planting;

4. Planted and centered within a six-foot wide planting bed, which shall entirely exclude any
hardscape and shall be primarily covered with bark or mulch;

5. Selected from the city tree selection guide maintained by the city forester relative to the
park strip width; and

6. Shall be installed with proper irrigation and an 18-inch-deep by six-foot root barrier on the
sidewalk side of the park strip.

C. Park strips less than four feet in width. Park strips less than four feet in width shall only
include trees as identified on the city street tree guide as being suitable for spaces less than four
feet in width, or otherwise as approved by the city forester. Existing trees may remain, but if the
tree root system is in danger of damaging the adjacent sidewalk through cracking or uplift, then
the tree is highly encouraged to be replaced.

1. Property owners next to this situation are highly encouraged to plant large trees four feet
back from the sidewalk in the front yard as a substitute for trees planted in the park strip.

7

2. Existing trees identified on aerial photography produced before 7 July 2020 (the date if
adoption of this ordinance) are legal nonconforming. Any non-permitted tree planted after 7 July
2020 shall be removed at the expense of the adjacent property owner.

D. Bonding. A cash bond or letter of credit assuring installation of required trees shall be
provided to the city before issuance of a building permit or final site plan approval.

14.44.040 Condemnation and removal of trees.

The CED director, upon giving proper notice to abutting property owner, shall have the

authority to condemn and remove, or order the removal by the abutting property owner of, any
: tree, tree stump, shrub or vine upon any city roads, avenues, or ways where the tree, tree stump,

shrub or vine is dead, diseased or for any other reason undesirable. The department shall have

authority to trim or prune any road tree or remove any tree that is in violation of any city ordinance,

without serving notice upon the abutting property owner.

Chapter 19.70
WATER CONSERVATION LANDSCAPING STANDARDS

Sections:

19.70.010 Purpose.

19.70.020 Applicability.

19.70.030 Definitions.

19.70.040 Water conservation landscaping standards.

19.70.010 Purpose.

The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the health, safety and welfare of the city
and its residents by adopting landscaping design standards intended to enhance conservation of
water resources in the city.

19.70.020 Applicability.

A. Conformance required. The standards adopted in this chapter:

1. Shall apply to all new development and construction activities in all zones in the city
following enactment of this chapter;

2. Are in addition to all zone-specific landscaping requirements detailed in this title;

3. Shall be deemed to be incorporated by reference into all chapters of this title which affect
the development of land in the city; and

3. Are encouraged for retrofit and remodel construction.

B. Conflicts. The standards adopted in this chapter are not intended to conflict with any
applicable federal, state or county landscaping requirements, including stormwater retention
requirements and low-impact development guidelines. In the event of any such conflict,
compliance with this chapter’s standards shall be excused to the extent necessary to resolve such
conflict.

19.70.030 Definitions.

The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:

A. “Activity zones” means portions of the landscape designed for recreation or function, such
as storage areas, fire pits, vegetable gardens, and playgrounds.

8

B. “Active recreation areas” means areas of the landscape dedicated to active play where lawn |
may be used as the playing surface, such as sports fields and playareas, ss” |
C. “Central open shape” means an unobstructed area that functions as the focal point of |
Localscapes and is designed in a shape that is geometric innature. a
D. “Gathering areas” means portions of the landscape that are dedicated to congregating, such |
_ E. “Hardscape” means durable landscape materials, such as concrete, wood, pavers, stone, or |
compacted inorganic mulch. . |
G. “Localscapes” means _a landscaping approach designed to create locally adapted and
|
activity zones, connecting pathways, and plantingbeds). = = =
‘H. “Mulch” means any materials left loose and applied to the soil, such as rock, bark, compost,
wood chips or other materials. = 7 . | oe Oo
and sidewalk. oO -
~ J. “Path” means a designed route between landscape areas and features.
L. “Total landscape area” means improved areas of a property that incorporate all of the
or structures, sidewalks, driveways, and other non-irrigated areas intentionally left undeveloped.
19.70.040__Water conservation landscaping standards.
——1._All irrigation shall be appropriate for the designated plant material to achieve the highest |
water efficiency. Drip irrigation or bubblers should be used except in lawn areas. Drip irrigation |
systems shall be equipped with a pressure regulator, filter, flush-end assembly, and any other |
|
and_plant materials with similar watering needs. Lawn and planting beds shall be irrigated on
separate irrigation valves. In addition, drip emitters and sprinklers shall be placed on separate
which automatically adjusts the frequency and/or duration of irrigation events in response to |
changing weather conditions. All controllers shall be equipped with automatic rain delay or rain
shut-offeapabilities
__B. Landscape bed coverage.
___1._At least three inches of mulch, permeable to air and water, shall be used in planting beds
to control weeds and improve the appearance of the landscaping.
(perennials and shrubs) to create living plant cover of at least 50% at the ground plane, excluding |
shall be free from obstructions (trees, signs, posts, valve boxes,etc.). |
9 |

landscapes, lawn areas shall not exceed 20% of the total landscaped area, outside of active
___4. Small residential lots with no back yards, in which the total landscaped area is less than |
|
wide lawn area_requirement above, are exempt from such eight feet_minimum lawn area |
requirement |
|
|
___2. Gathering areas shall be constructed of hardscape and placed outside of the central open |
|
___3._ Activity zones shall be located outside of the central open shape and shall be surfaced with |
___4. Paths shall be made with materials that do not include lawn, such as hardscape, mulch, or |
__5. Certain tain special purpose landscape areas, such as stormwater management areas, may |
|
|
|
|
|
|
10 |
|
