COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE No. 379-D
AN ORDINANCE DENYING A GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
FOR REALTY AT 3526 EAST FORT UNION BLVD. FROM
RESIDENTIAL OFFICE TO RESIDENTIAL MEDIUM DENSITY

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CoDE
ANN. §10-9a-101 et seg., as amended (the “Ac?”), provides that each municipality shall prepare
and adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan; and

WHEREAS, the Act requires the municipality’s planning commission to prepare the
general plan and submit it to the municipality’s legislative body; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt and amend the general plan; and

WHEREAS, on 26 July 2005, following full compliance with the procedures for
formulation, public hearing and recommendation specified in UTAH CODE ANN. §§10-9a-401
through -404, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the “City”)
enacted its Ordinance No. 24 adopting a general plan (with all previous amendments, the “P/an”)
for the City; and

WHEREAS, as authorized by statute, the Plan includes a land use element and an official
map (collectively, the “Land Use Element”) allocating to each parcel of land in the City a specific
land use designation authorized by the Plan; and

WHEREAS, in response to an application by Adam Nash (the “Application’”) to amend
(the “Amendment’”) the Land Use Element affecting the parcel of realty located at 3526 East Fort
Union Blvd. from Residential Office to Residential Medium Density, on 2 March 2022, following
all required notices, a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission concerning the
proposed Amendment, where citizens were given the opportunity to provide written or oral .
comment concerning the Amendment; and

WHEREAS, a photocopy of the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan
proposed by the Application is attached as an exhibit to this ordinance and is incorporated herein
by this reference; and

WHEREAS, on 2 March 2022 the Planning Commission voted to recommend that the ,
Council approve the Amendment, and thereafter recommended that the Council approve the .
Amendment; and

WHEREAS, after taking additional public input concerning the proposed Amendment, the
Council met in regular meeting on 19 April 2022 to consider, among other things, approving and .
adopting the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning |
Commission, the comments at the public hearings and public meetings, and other pertinent |

|

information, and otherwise being fully advised, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to deny the Amendment to the
Land Use Element proposed by the Application notwithstanding the Planning Commission’s
recommendation of approval;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Denial of Amendment. The Council hereby denies the Amendment to the
Land Use Element proposed by the Application based on the findings expressed in the Council’s
19 April 2022 public meeting, as well as a finding that the proposed Amendment to the Land Use
Element as to the subject property is incompatible with the land uses of certain of the surrounding
properties under the current Plan.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’’),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 379-D, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 19" day of April 2022.

ATTEST: ype’ OTTONWOOD HE y HIS CITY COUNCIL
BFW, \ AG S1°( Sytedy By B / Lh Lt
Paula Melgay , Recorder. Sidi ‘Michael J. Weichers, ayor
\ 2005 .
Dtronr on , f
PvVaT" VoTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea X Nay __
Douglas Petersen Yeayt Nay
J. Scott Bracken Yea Nayyc_
Shawn E. Newell Yea Nay __
Ellen Birrell Yea ~ Nay.
2

DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 19" day of April 2022.
POSTED this Zoday of April 2022.
