COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 357-A
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING THE RE-ZONE OF REAL PROPERTY LOCATED AT 2751
EAST ForT UNION BLVD. FROM R-1-8 (RESIDENTIAL SINGLE FAMILY) TO RO-ZC
(RESIDENTIAL OFFICE WITH ZONING CONDITIONS) AND AMENDING THE ZONING MAP
WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
| ANN. §10-9a-101 ef seg., as amended (the “Ac?”), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission’s recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and
WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the city; and
WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the city council (the “Council’”) of the city of Cottonwood
Heights (the “City”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City’s code of ordinances (the “Code”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 25, the Council also adopted a zoning map for
the City (the “Zoning Map’’); and
WHEREAS, on 21 April 2021 the City’s planning commission (the “Planning
Commission”) held a public hearing on an application by Lance Paulson requesting the re-zone of
a .3 acre parcel of real property located at 2751 East Fort Union Blvd. (the “Property”) from R-1-
8 (Residential Single Family) to RO (Residential Office), at which time all interested parties were
given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed re-zone; and
WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and
WHEREAS, on 21 April 2021, the Planning Commission recommended denial of such
proposed re-zone of the Property, and forwarded such recommendation of denial to the Council
for final action; and
WHEREAS, after taking additional public input, on 15 June 2021 the Council met in
regular meeting to consider, among other things, such proposed re-zone of the Property; and
WHEREAS, in order to provide more specific land use designations and to ensure that
proposed development is compatible with surrounding neighborhoods, Code section 19.90.060
authorizes “zoning conditions” to be attached to (and thereby made a part of) any zoning map
amendment which limit or restrict, inter alia, the conditional or permitted land uses to a greater
degree than otherwise would be applicable under the base zoning classification; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings where such proposed re-
zone was discussed, and recommendations of City staff, the Council has determined that it is in
the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to approve re-zoning
the Property as specified below;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Re-zone to RO-ZC. The Council hereby re-zones the Property from R-1-8
(Residential Single Family) to RO-ZC (Residential Office, with Zoning Conditions) and, in
connection therewith, excludes and prohibits the following uses from being conducted on the
Property: Medical, optical, dental offices and clinics for health professionals, including those
currently described in Code section 19.35.030(A) and (L) or their successors.

Section 2. Adoption of Amended Zoning Map. The Council hereby amends the City’s
zoning map to reflect the re-zone of the Property effected by this Ordinance and hereby adopts the
amended zoning map that is attached as an exhibit hereto as the City’s current zoning map for the
Property.

Section 3. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 4. Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 5. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 6. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 357-A, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 15" day of June 2021.

ATTEST: : COTTONWO IG TY COUNCIL
ae ONG
AIC kos QAET ER ay
Paula i Recorder CZ Michael J. Petergon, Mayor
é /j
DS ree 4
p}

VOTING:
|

Michael J. Peterson Yea VY Nay _
Douglas Petersen Yea“ Nay___
J. Scott Bracken “Yea. Nay___
Tali C. Bruce Yea witNay ——
Christine Watson Mikell Yea “Nay

DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 15" day of June 2021.

POSTED this }}-day of June 2021.

3

( ! |
| =
INION BLVD FORT UNION SLY

Existing Zoning

| eRe | |
(ze) R-1-8 —

| ©. | |
Proposed Zoning
