COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 420
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 9.05, COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES, REGARDING NUISANCES
WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council’”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”) for the City; and
WHEREAS, Chapter 9.05 (“Chapter 9.05’) of the Code describes, inter alia, conditions
and actions which are considered to be nuisances and provides the legal framework for the City to
address and abate such nuisances; and
WHEREAS, on 20 August 2024 the Council met in regular session to consider, among
other things, amending Chapter 9.05 to conform certain provisions thereof with recent
amendments to UTAH CODE ANN. 10-11-1 ef seq., entitled “Inspection and Cleaning;” and
WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the City’s residents to amend Chapter 9.05 of the Code
as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amended Chapter 9.05. The Council hereby amends Chapter 9.05
of the Code as shown on the attached exhibit, which shows any deletions to Chapter 9.05 struck
through and any additions to Chapter 9.05 underlined.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’’), whether
taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are severable,
and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to
be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause
or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 420, shall take immediate effect
as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office
of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 20" day of August 2024.

ATTEST: | COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
npprrsa,
c Ee “er % - _
By TUALLY? ee, s) y: 2 Mf
Paula Melgar, Reeordei x “W  /) ichael V. Weich ayor ~
vw ws VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea  Nay__
Matt Holton Yea KX Nay___
Suzanne Hyland Yea Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea Nay.
Ellen Birrell Yea X Nay __
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 20" day of August 2024.
POSTED this 7\ day of August 2024.
2

Chapter 9.05
NUISANCES AND ABATEMENT
Sections:
9.05.010 Purpose.
9.05.020 Definitions.
9.05.030 Nuisance—Definition.
9.05.040 Exceptions.
9.05.050 Responsibility for nuisances.
9.05.060 Nuisance abatement—Administration.
9.05.070 Finding of nuisance.
9.05.080 Voluntary correction.
9.05.090 Administrative notice.
9.05.100 Other remedies.
| 9.05.110 Appeals.
9.05.120 Severability
9.05.010 Purpose.

The purpose of this chapter to provide a means for the city and individuals to identify nuisances
within the city and to provide a means for correcting or abating the nuisances. The city needs the
ability to abate nuisances in order to protect the health and safety of the public, to foster
neighborhood stability, to preserve the appearance, character and beauty of neighborhoods, to
encourage community pride, to preserve the value of property, and to protect the general welfare
of the city and its citizens, businesses and visitors. This chapter provides for progressive
enforcement measures to abate nuisances; the most aggressive forms of enforcement are generally
reserved for the most recalcitrant violators of this chapter.

9.05.020 Definitions.

For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meaning herein prescribed:

A. “Abate” means to repair, replace, remove, destroy, correct or otherwise remedy a condition
which constitutes a nuisance by such means, in such a manner and to such an extent as the city
designated representative determines is necessary in the interest of the general health, safety and
welfare of the community.

B. “Completion date” means the date by which the responsible person must abate a nuisance.
The completion date is originally set by the city designated representative in the voluntary
correction agreement or in a notice from the city. The completion date may be modified by the
hearing officer.

C. “Emergency” means a situation which, in the opinion of the city designated representative,
requires immediate action to prevent or eliminate an immediate threat to the health or safety of a
person or property.

D. “Hearing officer” means the person(s) designated to hear appeals pursuant to this chapter.
The hearing officer shall be the mayor or his designee. The designee need not be a city employee.

E. “Inoperable vehicle” means a vehicle not currently registered or licensed in this state or
another state, or a vehicle that is or has any of the following conditions: dismantled, broken
windows, flat tires, no tires, missing doors, missing windows, missing fenders, missing hood,
missing trunk, will not start, or is in a condition that would result in the vehicle’s failure to pass
state safety inspection pursuant to the Motor Vehicle Act, UTAH CODE ANN. §41-1a-101, et seq.

F. “Owner” means any person who, alone or with others, has title or interest in any building
or premises, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof. For the purpose of giving
notice, the term “owner” also includes any person in physical possession.

G. “Premises” means a plot of ground, whether occupied or not.

H. “Property” means a building or structure, or the premises on which the building or structure
is located, or undeveloped land.

I. “Public place” means an area generally visible to public view and includes alleys, bridges,
driveways, parking lots, parks, plazas, sidewalks, streets, and buildings open to the general public,
including those that serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and entrances
to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.

J. “Responsible person” means the person(s) responsible for correcting or abating a nuisance
pursuant to this chapter. The responsible person includes the property owner and any person who
causes or permits a nuisance to occur or remain upon property in the city, and includes but is not
limited to the owner(s), lessor(s), lessee(s), or other person(s) entitled to control, use and/or occupy
property where a nuisance occurs. In cases where there are more than one responsible persons, the
city may proceed against one, some or all of them.

K. “Vehicle” includes, but is not limited to, trailers, travel trailers, semi-trailers, road tractor,
recreational vehicle, pick-up truck, motorboat, manufactured home, motor vehicle, motorcycle,
off-highway vehicle, farm truck, farm tractor, commercial vehicle, camper, all-terrain type I and
type II vehicles, off-highway vehicle, reconstructed vehicle, sailboat, special interest vehicle,
specially constructed vehicle, all as defined in the Motor Vehicle Act, UTAH CODE ANN. §41-1a-
101, et seq.

9.05.030 Nuisance--Definition.

A. This section defines “nuisance” by providing five general definitions of what constitutes a
nuisance (subsection B), and then providing specific examples of situations, conduct or activities
that constitute nuisances (subsection C). The purpose of the general definitions is to allow the city
to classify an offending situation, conduct or activity as a nuisance, even though the situation,
conduct or activity may not be listed as a nuisance in the specific examples. The first three general
definitions are taken directly from Utah state law. The purpose of listing the specific examples is
to identify some of the specific situations, conduct and activities that the city intends to abate as
nuisances.

B. General Definitions of Nuisance. Any activity that meets any one or more of the five
definitions set forth below shall constitute a “nuisance” if it occurs within the city:

1. Nuisance as Defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §78B-6-1101(1). Anything which is injurious to
health, indecent, offensive to the senses, or an obstruction to the free use of property, so as to
interfere with the comfortable enjoyment of life or property.

2. Nuisance_as Defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §76-10-801. Any item, thing, manner, or
condition whatsoever that it is dangerous to human life or health or renders soil, air, water, or food
impure or unwholesome.

3. Nuisance as Defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §76-10-803.

(a) Unlawfully doing any act or omitting to perform any duty, which act or omission:

(i) Annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of three or more
persons, at separate and distinct addresses in the effected neighborhood of the city;

(ii) Offends public decency;

(iii) Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or renders dangerous for
passage, any lake, stream, canal, or basin, or any public park, square, street, or highway; or

(iv) In any way renders three or more persons, at separate and distinct addresses in the effected
neighborhood of the city, insecure in life or the use of property.

(b) An act which affects three or more persons, at three separate and distinct addresses in the
effected neighborhood of the city, in any of the ways specified in this subsection is still a nuisance
regardless of the extent to which the annoyance or damage inflicted on individuals is unequal.

4. Nuisance. A condition which:

(a) Wrongfully annoys, injures, or endangers the comfort, repose, health or safety of others;
or

(b) Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct, or render dangerous for passage,
any public park, square, street or highway, or any other public place; or

(c) In any way renders other persons insecure in life, or in the use of property, and which
affects the rights of an entire community or neighborhood, although the extent of the damage may
be unequal.

5. Specific Nuisances Listed in Subsection C. Anything specifically listed as a nuisance in
subsection (C), below.

C. Nuisances Enumerated. Every situation, conduct or activity listed below constitutes a
nuisance and may be abated pursuant to this chapter. The listed examples are not exhaustive; a
situation, conduct or activity not listed below, but coming within one of the general definitions of
nuisance listed above, shall also constitute a nuisance. The first six listed nuisances are also listed
as nuisances pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. § 78B-6-1107(1):

1. Drug Houses. Every building or premises where the unlawful sale, manufacture, service,
storage, distribution, dispensing, or acquisition of any controlled substance, precursor, or analog
specified in UTAH CODE ANN. Title 57, Chapter 37 (Utah Controlled Substances Act), occurs.

2. Gambling. Every building or premises where gambling is permitted to be played,
conducted, or dealt upon as prohibited in UTAH CODE ANN. Title 76, Chapter 10, Part 11
(Gambling), which creates the conditions of a nuisance as defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §78B-6-
1101(1).

3. Gangs. Every building or premises wherein criminal activity is committed in concert with
two or more persons as provided in UTAH CODE ANN. §76-3-203.1.

4. Party Houses. Every building or premises where parties occur frequently which create the
conditions of a nuisance as defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §78B-6-1101(1).

5. Prostitution. Every building or premises where prostitution or the promotion of prostitution
is regularly carried on by one or more persons as provided in UTAH CODE ANN. Title 76, Chapter
10, Part 13 (Prostitution).

6. Weapons. Every building or premises where a violation of UTAH CODE ANN. Title 76,
Chapter 10, Part 5 (Weapons) occurs on the premises.

7. Unsafe Condition. A condition that unreasonably or unlawfully affects the health or safety
of one or more persons.

8. Fire Hazard. A fire hazard.

9. Noxious Emanations. Emanation of noxious or unreasonable odors, fumes, gas, smoke,
soot or cinders.

10. Noxious Weeds. Noxious weeds located on vacant lots or other property, along public
sidewalks or the outer edge of any public street, or weeds in any other location which constitute a
fire hazard.

11. Refuse. Keeping or storing of any refuse or waste matter which interferes with the
reasonable enjoyment of nearby property.

12. Stagnant Water. Polluted or stagnant water which constitutes an unhealthy or unsafe
condition.

13. Improper Accumulations. Accumulation of soil, litter, debris, plant trimmings, or trash,
visible from the street or an adjoining property.

14. Accumulation of Junk. Accumulation of used or damaged lumber; junk; scrap metal;
machinery or machinery parts; salvage materials; abandoned, discarded or unused furniture;

stoves, sinks, toilets, boxes, barrels, bottles, cans, containers, ice boxes, refrigerators, cabinets, or
other fixtures or equipment stored so as to be visible from a public street, alley, or adjoining
property. However, nothing herein shall preclude the placement of stacked firewood for personal
non-commercial use on the premises.

15. Attractive Nuisances. Any attractive nuisance dangerous to children and other persons
including, but not limited to, abandoned, broken, or neglected household appliances, equipment
and machinery, abandoned foundations or excavations, or improperly maintained or secured pools.

16. Vegetation. Dead, decayed, diseased, or hazardous trees, weeds, hedges, and overgrown
or uncultivated vegetation which is in a hazardous condition, is an obstruction to pedestrian or
vehicular traffic, or which is likely to harbor rats, vermin or other pests.

17. Dust. Any Premises which causes excessive dust due to construction, lack of landscaping,
non-maintenance or other cause.

18. Improper Storage. The keeping, storing, depositing or accumulating on the premises or in
the public right-of-way for an unreasonable period of time dirt, sand, gravel, concrete, or other
similar materials, or maintenance of such material on public rights-of-way. Material stored as part
of an active construction project shall not be considered a nuisance.

19. Garbage Can. The leaving of any garbage can or refuse container in the street, other than
on collection day, or for more than 12 hours before or after the collection day or the use of worn-
out, rusted or filthy garbage containers.

20. Construction Equipment. Construction equipment or machinery of any type or description
parked or stored on property when it is readily visible from a public street, alley or adjoining
property, except while excavation, construction or demolition operations covered by an active
building permit are in progress on the subject property or an adjoining property, or where the
property is zoned for the storage of construction equipment and/or machinery.

21. Improper Sign. Improper maintenance of a sign; or signs which advertise a business that
is no longer extant on the property.

22. Hazardous Conditions. Any wall, sign, fence, gate, hedge, or structure maintained in such
condition of deterioration or disrepair as to constitute a hazard to persons or property.

23. Graffiti. Graffiti which remains on the exterior of any building, fence, sign, or other
structure and is visible from a public street.

24. Improper Maintenance. Maintenance of buildings and/or structures in such condition as
to be deemed defective or in a condition of deterioration or disrepair including, but not limited to:

(a) Any building or structure which is unfit for human habitation, or which is an unreasonable
hazard to the health of people residing in the vicinity thereof, or which presents an unreasonable
fire hazard in the vicinity where it is located;

(b) Any building or structure set up, erected, constructed, altered, enlarged, converted, moved
or maintained contrary to the provisions of city ordinances, or any use of land, buildings or
premises in violation of city ordinances;

(c) Buildings which are abandoned, partially destroyed, or left in an unreasonable state of
partial construction for a period of six months or longer. An “wnreasonable state of partial
construction” means any unfinished building or structure where the appearance or condition of the
building or structure does not meet the requirements for finished buildings or structures as required
by applicable city ordinances or building codes. The building or structure shall not be considered
to be a nuisance if it is under active construction;

(d) Buildings having dry rot, warping, termite infestation, decay, excessive cracking, peeling,
or chalking, as to render the building unsightly and/or in a state of disrepair;

(e) Buildings with missing doors and/or windows containing broken glass and/or no glass at
all where the window is of a type which normally contains glass;

(f) Building exteriors, walls, fences, gates, driveways, sidewalks, walkways, signs or
ornamentation, or alleys maintained in such condition as to render them unsightly and/or in a state
of disrepair; or

(g) Buildings or conditions that violate any building, electrical, plumbing, fire, housing, or
other code adopted by the city.

25. City Code Nuisances. Any violation of the city’s code of ordinances that expressly
declares a specific situation, conduct or activity to be a nuisance.

26. Alcohol. Every property or premises not licensed under applicable state law or city
ordinance where any intoxicating liquors or alcohol are kept for unlawful use, sale or distribution.

27. Inappropriate Conduct. Every property or premises where there exists an environment
which causes, encourages or allows individuals or groups of individuals to commit one or more of
the following acts on the property, premises or adjacent public place, including but not limited to:

(a) Illegally consuming intoxicating liquor or alcohol, and/or drugs;

(b) Publicly urinating or defecating;

(c) By physical action, intentionally causing or attempting to cause another person to
reasonably fear imminent bodily injury or the commission of a criminal act upon their person or
upon property in their immediate possession;

(d) Engaging in acts of violence, including fighting amongst themselves;

(e) Discharging a firearm or explosive in violation of city ordinance or state law;

(f) Creating unreasonable noise which disturbs others;

(g) Intentionally obstructing pedestrian or vehicular traffic; or

(h) Soliciting acts of prostitution.

28. Dangerous Conditions. Any fence, wall, shed, deck, house, garage, building, structure or
any part of any of the aforesaid; or any tree, pole, smokestack; or any excavation, hole, open well,
pit, basement, cellar, sidewalk, subspace, dock, or loading dock; or any lot, land, yard, premises
or location which in its entirety, or in any part thereof, by reason of the condition in which the
same is found or permitted to be or remain, shall or may endanger the health, safety, life, limb or
property, or cause any hurt, harm, inconvenience, discomfort, damage or injury to any one or more
individuals in the city, in any one or more of the following particulars:

(a) By reason of being a menace, threat and/or hazard to the general health and safety of the
community;

(b) By reason of being a fire hazard;

(c) By reason of being unsafe for occupancy, or use on, in, upon, about or around the aforesaid
property; or

(d) By reason of lack of sufficient or adequate maintenance of the property, and/or being
vacant, any of which depreciates the enjoyment and use of the property in the immediate vicinity
to such an extent that it is harmful to the community in which such property is situated or such
condition exists.

29. Family. Keeping or allowing people at a premises in violation of the city’s single family
residence and zoning requirements.

30. Parking on Landscaping. Parking in an area required to be landscaped by city ordinance.

31. Banner and Snipe Signs. Keeping or allowing banner and/or snipe signs in violation of
city ordinance.

32. Required Landscaping. Failure to install or maintain landscaping required by city
ordinance.

33. Fly Control. Any premises that contains any one of the following unsanitary conditions:

(a) A privy, cesspool, sink, pit or like place that is not securely protected from flies;

(b) Garbage that is not securely protected from flies; or

(c) Vegetable waste, trash, litter, rags or refuse of any kind which flies may breed.

34. Habitat for Insects. Any condition that creates a habitat for mosquitoes or other harmful
insects.

35. Weeds and Refuse. Any violation of chapter 9.60 of this code.

36. Rats. Accumulation of garbage or refuse that constitutes a health or safety hazard,
consisting of waste, animal or vegetable matter upon which rats may feed.

37. Dead Animals. Any premises that contains any dead animals, animal parts, animal matter
of any kind (except fertilizer), or any violation of section 8.32.160 of this title.

38. Nuisance Animal. Any animal that is considered to be a nuisance under title 8 of this title.
9.05.040 Exceptions.

No act which is done or maintained under the express authority of an authoritative statute,
ordinance, conditional use permit or court ruling shall be declared a nuisance.

9.05.050 Responsibility for nuisances.

The responsible person(s) is responsible for abating nuisances pursuant to this chapter. Any
person, whether as owner, agent, or occupant, who creates, aids in creating, or contributes to a
nuisance, or who supports, continues, or retains a nuisance, is responsible for the nuisance and is
a responsible person pursuant to this chapter. Every successive owner or tenant of a property or
premises who fails to abate a continuing nuisance upon or in the use of such property or premises
caused by a former owner or tenant is responsible therefore in the same manner as the one who
first created it.

9.05.060 Nuisance abatement—Administration.

This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the city’s police department or other
designee. In case of nuisances involving dangerous buildings or violations of codes typically
administered and enforced by the health department, this chapter may also be administered and
enforced by the city’s community development department.

|

9.05.070 Finding of nuisance.

If a city designated representative finds that a nuisance exists, the representative will usually
attempt to have the responsible person abate the nuisance. Although the representative’s first usual
step in correcting or abating the nuisance will be to attempt to obtain voluntary compliance, the
representative may pursue any remedy or combination of remedies available pursuant to this
chapter, state law or common law in order to abate the nuisance. Subject to the requirement of
Section 9.05.100(D)(1) below requiring the city representative to seek voluntary compliance
before initiating criminal prosecution, nNothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit the
city from engaging in its standard prosecution or abatement practices._therefere—the-city may
in-this-chapter, Further, nNothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to prevent the city from
enforcing applicable city ordinances, or building codes without first treating the offending conduct,
situation or activity as a nuisance pursuant to this chapter.

9.05.080 Voluntary correction.

This section applies whenever the city designated representative determines that a nuisance
exists.

A. Contact. Before taking other steps to abate the nuisance, the city designated representative
will usually make a reasonable attempt to secure voluntary correction or abatement of the nuisance
by:

1. Contacting the responsible person, where possible;

2. Explaining the nuisance;

3. Requesting the responsible person to abate the nuisance; and

4. Agreeing to terms with the responsible person to abate the nuisance.

B. No Agreement. If the city designated representative and the responsible person cannot agree
to terms for correcting or abating the nuisance, the city representative may still abate the nuisance
using one or more of the procedures set forth in this chapter, state law, or common law.

C. Voluntary Correction Agreement.

1. If the city representative and the responsible person agree to terms for abating the nuisance,
they shall enter into and sign a voluntary correction agreement. The voluntary correction
agreement is a contract between the city and the responsible person in which the responsible person
agrees to abate the nuisance within a specified time and according to specified conditions. The
voluntary correction agreement shall include the following terms:

(a) The name and address of the responsible person;

(b) The street address of the nuisance, or a description sufficient to identify the building,
structure, premises, or land upon or within which the nuisance is occurring;

(c) A description of the nuisance;

(d) The necessary corrective action to be taken, and a date or time by which correction must
be completed;

(e) An agreement by the responsible person that the city may enter the premises and inspect
the premises as may be necessary to determine compliance with the voluntary correction
agreement;

(f) An agreement by the responsible person that the city may abate the nuisance and recover
its costs and expenses to abate the nuisance, as well as a monetary fine pursuant to this chapter
from the responsible person, if terms of the voluntary correction agreement are not met;

(g) An agreement by the responsible person acknowledging that he waives the right to appeal
the city representative’s finding that a nuisance exists and waives the right to appeal the specific
corrective action required in the voluntary correction agreement; and

(h) An agreement by the responsible person that failure to comply with the voluntary
correction agreement may be grounds for criminal prosecution.

2. The city representative may grant an extension of the time limit for correcting or abating
the nuisance if the responsible person has shown due diligence and/or substantial progress in
correcting or abating the nuisance but unforeseen circumstances render abatement under the
original conditions unattainable. If the responsible person complies with the terms of the voluntary
correction agreement, the city shall take no further action against the responsible person related to
the nuisance described in the voluntary correction agreement unless the nuisance recurs.
9.05.090. Administrative notice.

A. Administrative Notice. When the city designated representative determines that a nuisance
exists, and is unable to secure voluntary correction pursuant to section 9.05.080 of this chapter,
the representative may issue an administrative notice to the responsible person. The representative
may issue an administrative notice without having attempted to secure voluntary correction as
provided in section 9.05.080 of this chapter under the following circumstances:

1. When an emergency exists; or

2. When the representative is unable to locate or determine the identity of the responsible
person.

B. Content of Administrative Notice. The administrative notice shall include the following:

| 1. The name and address of the property owner according to the records of the Salt Lake
County Recorderrespensible-person;

2. The street address of the nuisance or a description sufficient for identifying the building,
structure, premises, or land upon or within which the nuisance is occurring;

3. A description of the nuisance, including identifying the relevant ordinance or regulation
being violated;

4. The required corrective action, such as eradication, destruction or removal of any identified
item(s);

5. A description of each order, fine, or penalty that may be imposed absent timely corrective
action:

6. For a structure or any real property closed to occupancy or entry by the local health
department _because_of hazardous materials (as defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §19-6-902, as
amended), an explanation of the right of the responsible person to abate the hazardous materials
or appeal the notice within 180 days after the day on which the notice is delivered in person or the
date the notice is post-marked;

75. The completion date for the responsible person to eradicate, destroy, or remove any
identified item(s) or otherwise abate the specified nuisance, which shall not be less than 20 days
after the day the notice is hand-delivered or postmarked or 180 days after the notice is hand-
delivered or post-marked in the case of hazardous materials;

8. A statement indicating that no monetary fine will be assessed if the city representative
approves the completed, required corrective action prior to the completion date;

9. and-a—aNotice that the city may abate the nuisance and charge the owner or other
responsible person for all abatement costs, expenses and monetary fine as specified in the notice
if the nuisance is not abated and respensible-persen-dees-net-corrected+the-nuisance before the a
specified completion date; A-statementindicating that ne-monetary fine—-will be-assessed if the

106. The time for appealing the administrative notice to the hearing officer and the
procedure for filing an appeal:
the responsible-person-and approved bythe representative before the-completion-date. An appeal

shall be timely if it is filed within 20 days after the date that the administrative notice is personally-
delivered or postmarked.

C. Service of Administrative Notice.

|. The representative shall serve the administrative notice upon the-cither:

(a) The record owner of the property as shown on the Salt Lake County Recorder’s records by
personal delivery or by certified mailing, return receipt requested, to that owner’s record address:
or

(b) The non-owner occupant or other responsible person for the property by personal delivery
or by certified mailing, return receipt requested, to the property address.

2. _responsible_persen,either_personally—or-by_maiing,certified. return receipt requested_a
Proof of service shall be made by a written declaration under penalty of perjury executed by the
person effecting the service, declaring the time and date of service, the manner by which the service
was made, and if by posting, the facts showing that due diligence was used in attempting to serve
the person personally or by mail.

D. Ne-Extension of Time. No extension of the time specified in the administrative notice for
correction of the nuisance may be granted, except by order of the hearing officer, who may extend
the date for corrective action after taking into account the cost of curing the violation.

9.05.100 Other remedies.

The city may take one or more of the following actions against any responsible person who
fails to comply with the terms of a voluntary consent agreement, an administrative notice, or an
order of the hearing officer:

A. Abatement by the City.

1. The city may abate a nuisance when:

(a) The terms of a voluntary correction agreement have not been met;

(b) The requirements of an administrative notice have not been complied with, or, if the
administrative notice is appealed to a hearing officer and the terms of the administrative notice are
amended by the hearing officer, the terms of the hearing officer’s order have not been complied
with; or

(c) The condition is subject to summary abatement as provided for in subsection 2, below.

2. Whenever a nuisance is occurring which constitutes an immediate and emergent threat to
the public health, safety or welfare or to the environment, the city may summarily and without
prior notice abate the condition. Notice of such abatement, including the reason for it, shall be
given to the responsible person as soon as reasonably possible after the abatement.

| 3. Using any lawful means, when abatement by the city is available under this section the city
may enter upon the subject property and may remove or correct the condition which is subject to
abatement. The city may seek, but is not required to seek, such judicial process as it deems
necessary to effect the removal or correction of such condition.

4. The costs, including incidental expenses, of correcting or abating the violation shall be
billed to the owner, occupant or other responsible person and/erthe-ownertessertenant or other
perser-entitled to control, use and/or occupy the property. Such billing statement shall be mailed
by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the property owner’s last-known address according
to the records of the Salt Lake County Recorder. Amounts due thereunder shall be paid -and-shal}
become-due-and payable-to the city within 30ter days after the billing statement is postmarkedef
actual receipt-of the bill (within 15 _days_of the-mailinge date +f the-bill is-mailed). -The term
“incidental expenses” includes but is not limited to:

(a) Personnel costs, both direct and indirect, including attorneys’ fees and costs;

(b) Costs incurred in documenting the violation;

(c) Hauling, storage and disposal expenses;

(d) Actual expenses and costs for the city in preparing notices, specifications and contracts,
and in accomplishing and/or contracting and inspecting the work; and

(e) The costs of any required printing and mailing.

5. The billing statement shall:

(a) Include the address of the property;

(b) Include an itemized list of and demand for payment of all costs and expenses incurred by
the city as described in subsection 4(b) above:

(c) Specify the address of the city’s treasurer where payment may be made for the expenses:

(d) Notify the property owner that failure to pay the charges may result in a lien on the property
in accordance with UTAH CODE ANN. §10-11-4:

(e) Notify that the property owner may file a written objection to all or part of the billing
statement within 20 days after the statement is hand-delivered or postmarked: and

(f) Specify the address where the owner may file the objection, including the city office and
address.

B. Monetary Fine.

| 1. The owner, occupant or other responsible person shall pay the city a monetary fine for each
day the nuisance continues after the specified completion date. The nuisance shall be considered
to continue until the representative approves the responsible person’s actions to correct or abate
the nuisance. The amount of the monetary fine shall be as follows:

(a) $100.00 per day for each day during the first week that the nuisance remains uncorrected
or unabated after the completion date; and

(b) $200.00 per day for each day thereafter until the nuisance is corrected or abated according
to the terms set forth in the administrative notice.

2. The monetary fine shall be cumulative and may not be waived by the representative.
Payment of a monetary fine pursuant to this section does not relieve the responsible person from
the duty to abate the nuisance as required by the voluntary consent agreement or the administrative
notice. The monetary fine constitutes a personal obligation of the responsible person. Any

| monetary fine assessed must be paid to the city within | Sten calendar days from the date of mailing
of the hearing officer’s decision and order or a notice from the city that the fine is due. The city
attorney or designee is authorized to take appropriate action to collect the monetary fine, plus
reasonable attorneys’ fees and costs incurred in collecting said monetary fine.

C. Civil Actions. Either the city or any private person directly affected by a nuisance may
bring a civil action to abate or enjoin the nuisance, or for damages for causing or maintaining the
nuisance (including the cost, if any, of cleaning the subject property). The civil action may be
brought pursuant to this chapter or pursuant to state law.

D. Criminal Actions. Criminal] actions may be initiated by criminal citation or by information.

1. Any person who maintains or assists in maintaining a nuisance is guilty of a Class C
misdemeanor. No person shall be prosecuted under this subsection (1) unless the city designated

| representative first attempted to obtain voluntary correction as provided in section 9.05.080 of this
chapter.

2. If the alleged nuisance is also a violation of a provision of city code (other than this

| chapternuisance-ordinanee) or Utah state law, the responsible person may be charged under the
specific provision of city code or state law, even if the city designated representative did not first
attempt to obtain voluntary correction as provided herein.

3. Any person who knowingly obstructs, impedes, or interferes with the city or its agents, or
with the responsible person, in the performance of duties imposed by this chapter, or a decision

and order issued by the hearing officer, or a voluntary correction agreement, is guilty of a Class B
misdemeanor.

E. Abatement by Eviction. Whenever there is reason to believe that a nuisance under this
chapter is kept, maintained, or exists in the city, the city attorney or any citizen(s) residing in the
city, or any person or entity doing business in the city, in his or their own names, or the city attorney
in the name of the city, may maintain an action in a court of competent jurisdiction to abate the
nuisance and obtain an order for the automatic eviction of the tenant of the property harboring the
nuisance. The eviction shall take place in accordance with Utah law.

F. Lien for Costs. If a person fails to pay any fines or costs related to nuisance abatement
when due, the city may record a lien on the property or premises for the full amount of the unpaid
fines and costs.

G. Non-exclusive Remedies. Notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, the

| city may proceed pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §-10-11-1 through 4 (the “Jnspection and Cleaning
Act’) without complying with any of the provisions of this chapter. In addition, the city may take
any or all of the above-mentioned remedies (administrative, civil or criminal) to abate a nuisance
and/or to punish any person or entity who creates, causes or allows a nuisance to exist. The
abatement of a nuisance does not prejudice the right of the city or any person to recover damages
or penalties for its past existence.

H. Buildings Closure. Whenever conditions inside or under occupied business buildings
provide extensive harborage for rats, in the opinion of the city, the city is empowered, after due
notification in accordance with this chapter, to close the business buildings until such time as the
conditions are abated by rat-proofing and harborage removal including, if necessary, the
installation of suitable concrete floors in basements or replacement of wooden ground floors with
concrete or other major repairs necessary to facilitate rat eradication.

I. Buildings Destruction. Whenever conditions inside or under unoccupied business buildings
provide extensive harborage for rats, in the opinion of the city, the city is empowered, after due

notification in accordance with this chapter, to institute condemnation and destruction proceedings.

|
9.05.110 Appeals.

A. Grounds. Any person receiving an administrative notice may appeal the administrative
notice to the hearing officer. Only the following issues may be appealed to the hearing officer:

1. The person charged in the administrative notice as the responsible person is not the
responsible person as defined by this chapter;

2. The condition described as a nuisance in the administrative notice is not a nuisance as
defined by this chapter;

3. The method required by the administrative notice to abate the nuisance is inappropriate or

| is not the most cost-effective method of effectively correcting or abating the nuisance;

4. The time period given to abate the nuisance in the administrative notice is unreasonable;

5. The monetary fine set forth in the administrative notice is unreasonable;

6. The city designated representative refused to approve a corrective action that met the
requirements of the administrative notice; or

7. The responsible person claims that the requirement(s) of the administrative notice violates
their constitutional rights.

B. Filing. The person desiring to appeal must file a notice of appeal with the city within 20
ten-days afteref reeeipt-efthe administrative notice is personally delivered or postmarked@¥ithin

C. Hearing. The hearing before the hearing officer shall be informal according to rules and
procedures established by the hearing officer. The appellant may, but is not required to, bring an
attorney or other representative to assist him or her. The appellant and the representative may each
call witnesses at the hearing. The hearing officer may, with or without the parties present, visit the
site of the alleged nuisance. If the hearing officer allows the parties at the site visit, both parties
must be given the opportunity to be present. The hearing shall be scheduled by the hearing officer
within 30 days after the notice of appeal is filed with the city.

D. Burden of Proof The appellant shall have the burden of proof to demonstrate by a
preponderance of the evidence that they had legitimate grounds for an appeal. The determination
of the representative as to the need for the required corrective action shall be accorded substantial
weight by the hearing officer in determining the reasonableness of the corrective action.

E. Authority of Hearing Officer.

1. The hearing officer shall have authority to affirm or vacate the administrative notice, or to
modify or waive specific provisions of the administrative notice. If the appellant fails to attend the
hearing, the hearing officer shall affirm the administrative notice. The hearing officer shall not
vacate the administrative notice unless they find that no nuisance exists. The hearing officer shall
modify the administrative notice if they find that a nuisance exists, but that one or more of the
requirements of the administrative notice is improper or inappropriate. A requirement is improper
if it is contrary to this chapter. A requirement is inappropriate if the hearing officer finds that there
is a better means of resolving the problem or that the proposed solution is inappropriate given the
nature or severity of the problem. When determining whether to waive or modify a requirement of
the administrative notice, the hearing officer may also consider:

(a) Whether the appellant responded to the representative’s attempts to contact the appellant
and cooperated with efforts to correct the nuisance;

(b) Whether the appellant has shown due diligence and/or substantial progress in correcting
the nuisance;

(c) The financial ability of the appellant and the amount, if any, that the appellant has benefited
financially by maintaining the nuisance; and

(d) Any other relevant factors.

2. If the appellant appeals the city designated representative’s refusal to approve appellant’s
corrective action, the hearing officer shall visit the site and determine if the appellant complied
with the requirements of the administrative notice.

F. Order. The hearing officer shall issue a written order to the appellant and the city notifying .
them of their decision. The order shall include the hearing officer’s findings of fact conclusion of
law, and an ultimate decision. If the hearing officer modifies or waives provisions of the
administrative notice, the order shall specify which portions are modified and how they are
modified. The hearing officer shall mail a copy of the order to the appellant and the city within
five business days of the close of the hearing.

G. Appeal to District Court. Either the city or the appellant may appeal the hearing officer’s
order by filing a petition for review of the order. The petition must be filed in the district court
within 30 calendar days from the date the hearing officer’s order was mailed to the appellant. In
the petition, the plaintiff may only allege that the hearing officer’s order was arbitrary, capricious,
or illegal. The hearing officer shall transmit to the reviewing court the record of its proceedings,
including any minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a true and correct transcript of its
proceedings. If, in the opinion of the district court, there is a sufficient record to review the hearing
officer’s order, the court’s review is limited to the record provided by the hearing officer. The
district court may not accept or consider any evidence outside of the hearing officer’s record unless
the evidence was offered to the hearing officer and the court determines that it was improperly
excluded by the hearing officer. If, in the opinion of the district court, there is not a sufficient
record to review the hearing officer’s order, the court may call witnesses and take evidence. No
petition or appeal may be filed in district court unless the responsible person first appeals to the
hearing officer pursuant to the terms set forth in this chapter.

9.05.120 Severability

The provisions of this chapter are severable and are subject to any contrary provisions of the

Inspection and Cleaning Act and any other applicable Utah state law.
