COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 400-A
AN ORDINANCE APPROVING A GENERAL PLAN AMENDMENT
FOR REALTY AT 6851 SOUTH BIG COTTONWOOD CANYON ROAD
FROM MIXED USE TO RESIDENTIAL LOW DENSITY

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CoDE
ANN. §10-9a~101 et seg., as amended (the “Acf”), provides that each municipality shall prepare
and adopt a comprehensive, long-range general plan; and

WHEREAS, the Act requires the municipality’s planning commission to prepare the
general plan and submit it to the municipality’s legislative body; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt and amend the general plan; and

WHEREAS, on 26 July 2005, following full compliance with the procedures for
formulation, public hearing and recommendation specified in UTAH CODE ANN. §§10-9a-401
through -404, the city council (the “Councif”) of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the “City”)
enacted its Ordinance No. 24 adopting a general plan (with all previous amendments, the “Plan”)
for the City; and

WHEREAS, as authorized by statute, the Plan includes a land use element and an official
map (collectively, the “Land Use Element”) allocating to each parcel of land in the City a specific
land use designation authorized by the Plan; and

WHEREAS, in response to an application by Gilson Engineering on behalf of Walker
Development Partnership, LLC (the “Application’’) to amend (the “Amendment”’) the Land Use
Element affecting the 3.049 acres parcel of realty located at 6851 South Big Cottonwood Canyon
Road from Mixed Use to Residential Low Density, on 19 July 2023, following all required notices,
a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission concerning the proposed Amendment,
where citizens were given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the
Amendment; and

WHEREAS, a photocopy of the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan
proposed by the Application is attached as an exhibit to this ordinance and is incorporated herein
by this reference; and

WHEREAS, on 19 July 2023 the Planning Commission voted to recommend that the
Council approve the Amendment, and thereafter recommended that the Council approve the
Amendment; and

WHEREAS, after taking additional public input concerning the proposed Amendment, the
Council met in regular meeting on 1 August 2023 to consider, among other things, approving and
adopting the Amendment to the Land Use Element of the Plan; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, the comments at the public hearings and public meetings, and other pertinent
information, and otherwise being fully advised, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to amend the Plan by adopting
the Amendment to the Land Use Element as proposed by the Application, and to ratify the Plan,
as so amended, as the City’s general plan;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption _of New Plan. The Council hereby adopts the attached
Amendment to the Land Use Element, and hereby ratifies the Plan, as so amended, as the City’s
general plan. From and after the effective date of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”, the Plan shall
be deemed amended as specified by the Amendment for all purposes.

Section 2. Future Amendment of General Plan. Pursuant to the authority granted in
the Act, the Council shall have, and hereby expressly reserves, the right to hereafter further amend
the Plan at any time or from time to time hereafter for any purpose upon recommendation by the
Planning Commission following all appropriate public notices and hearings required by the Act.

Section 3. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 4. Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 5. Repealer. A\l ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 6. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 400-A, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 1“ day of August 2023.

ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
ae
Paula Melgar, Recordet: CH ©} | Michael T. Weichers, Mayor

VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yeag Nay
Matt Holton Yea Nay
J. Scott Bracken Yea Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea { Nay ___ .
Ellen Birrell Yea\Z Nay __
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 1 day of August 2023.
POSTED this u day of August 2023.
; 3 |

CURRENT LAND USE (MIXED USE) PROPOSED LAND USE (RES. LOW DENSITY)
