COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE No. 407
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 11.20.060 OF THE
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES CONCERNING
PARKING RESTRICTIONS FOR CERTAIN VEHICLES

WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council’) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”’) for the City; and

WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 16 January 2024 to consider, among
other things, amending Section 11.20.060 of the Code concerning the parking/storage of certain
vehicles and trailers in residential areas in the City; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to so amend Section 11.20.060
of the Code as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amended Section 11.20.060. The Council hereby amends
Section 11.20.060 (the “Section”) of the Code as shown on the attached exhibit, which shows
deletions to the current Section struek+threxush or otherwise shown as deletions, and additions to
the current Section underlined or otherwise shown as additions.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’’),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 407, shall take effect as soon
as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of
the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 16" day of January 2024.

ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
, pf AA As VA {r
\ ee got MEG SI ; / MY, A }
7 wee ol NZ hi / f
By: mr gta By So NS / é di / ( et >
: Sic Le: eh ic T. Weichers, Mayor
Nev 3 Devereux pears ee cre Ig
Michael T. Weichers Yea Nay
Matt Holton Yea___— Nay Xx
Suzanne Hyland Yea X Nay _»
Shawn E. Newell Yea__—iNay X_
Ellen Birrell Yea Nay __
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 16" day of January 2024.
POSTED this | Sday of January 2024.
2

EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE No. 407
11.20.060 Parking of agricultural vehicles, commercial vehicles, recreational vehicles,
trailers and trucks.

A. Definitions. As used in this section:

1. “Agricultural vehicle” means a vehicle, whether or not self-propelled, that is primarily
designed or used for agricultural purposes.

2. “Commercial vehicle” means a vehicle in excess of one-ton capacity of whatever make or
type used for commercial purposes. The term “commercial vehicle” includes, without limitation,
all so-called “semi” truck-tractors and “semi” truck-trailers.

3. “Controlled vehicle” means any vehicle and/or trailer described in subparts 1-2 and 4-7,
inclusive, of this subsection 11.20.060(A).

4. “Recreational vehicle” means a vehicular unit other than a mobile home, primarily
designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational or vacation use, which is either self-
propelled or pulled by another vehicle. Recreational vehicle also includes a boat, a snowmobile, a
personal watercraft, an all-terrain vehicle, a travel trailer, a camping trailer, a motor home, and a
fifth wheel trailer.

5. “Trailer” means any truck trailer or other trailer designed or adapted primarily for the
transportation of materials, debris or property of whatever kind, including, without limitation,
boats, personal watercraft, snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles or motorcycles, whether occupied or
empty.

6. “Travel trailer.” “camping trailer,” or “fifth wheel trailer” means a portable vehicle
without motive power, whether occupied or empty, designed as a temporary dwelling for travel,
recreational or vacation use that does not require a special highway movement permit when drawn
by a self-propelled motor vehicle.

7. “Truck? means any truck-tractor, tractor-trailers, panel truck, pickup or other truck in
excess of one-ton capacity.

B. Restrictions.

1. No person shall park any controlled vehicle on any public street adjacent to a lot or parcel
containing a residential dwelling(s) or on any public street within a residential zone of the city for
a period of time longer than two hours within any twenty-four hour period: provided, however,
that a recreational vehicle may be parked on a public street fronting a residential dwelling occupied
by the owner or user of that vehicle for a single parking span of up to 12 hours within any one-
week period to allow time for the vehicle to be readied for use or readied for storage after use.

2. Acontrolled vehicle may be stored on the paved portion of the front, side or rear yard of a
home on any residential lot, subject to the following conditions:

(a) Except for parking on a public street as provided in subsection |1.20.060(B)(1). in no case
shall any portion of the controlled vehicle extend onto or over any part of the public right-of-way
and/or public sidewalk.

(b) Controlled vehicles stored within the front yard of a lot in a residential zone must be
operable and, if legally licensable, licensed and registered.

(c) Without the prior written approval of the city’s development review committee (DRC) (as
empanelled from time to time by the city’s community development director), which shall
primarily focus on any safety-related issues posed by parking or storing controlled vehicles

3

|
|
i
hereunder, controlled vehicles shall not be stored within the required side yard setback next to the
street on corner lots.
(d) Controlled vehicles may not be stored on any lot in violation of applicable “clear view” or
other nationally-recognized safety standards, as determined by the city’s community development
director in consultation with the city engineer.
(e) Any commercial vehicle, agricultural vehicle or truck stored within the front yard or side
yard of a home on any residential lot must be in active use in connection with the occupant’s
primary trade or business conducted by such occupant at least 20 hours weekly. :
(f) No more than a total of three controlled vehicles may be stored or parked on any residential
lot that is one-half acre or smaller in size. Up to a total of two additional controlled vehicles may
be stored or parked on residential lots larger than one-half acre in size at the rate of one additional
controlled vehicles per one quarter-acre of additional lot size, so that, for example, a total of four
controlled vehicles may be parked or stored on a residential lot that is .75 acre and up to 1.00 acre .
in size, and a total of five controlled vehicles may be parked or stored on a residential lot that is
1.00 acre or larger in size.
C. Exception. The prohibitions in this section shall not apply to controlled vehicles actively
being used in the servicing of adjacent properties or streets.
D. Conflicting Ordinances. This section shall control and take precedence over any conflicting
provisions in this code concerning parking or storage of controlled vehicles.
4
