COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 337
AN ORDINANCE GRANTING A MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT
FOR WIRELESS FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC WAY TO SQF, LLC

WHEREAS, SQF, LLC, on behalf of itself, its operating affiliates, and its permitted
successors and assigns (“Provider”), desires to provide third party broadband wireless services
within the city of Cottonwood Heights (“City’”’) and, in connection therewith, to establish a network
in, under, along, over, and across present and future public roads, streets, alleys and other rights-
of-way (the “Public Way”) within City’s corporate limits (“City Limits”), consisting of antennas,
radios, fiber-optic cable, and conduit, together with all necessary and desirable appurtenances
(collectively, “Wireless Facilities”), for the operation of a wireless broadband small cell network
for communication services, all as authorized by and subject to COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE
Chapter 14.28 or its successor; and

WHEREAS, City, in the exercise of its police power, its ownership, use or rights over and
in the Public Way, and pursuant to its other regulatory authority, believes it is in the best interest
of the public to grant Provider access rights to the Public Way pursuant to a non-exclusive master
license agreement; and

WHEREAS, City’s governing body (the “City Council”) met in regular session on 21
January 2020 to consider, among other things, approving the execution and delivery of such a
master license agreement and to otherwise taking all actions necessary to grant such access rights
to Provider; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the City Council believes it to be in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of City’s residents to authorize City’s execution and
delivery of such a master license agreement substantially in the form attached hereto (the
“Agreement’);

NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the city council of the city of Cottonwood Heights
as follows:

Section 1. Purpose. The purpose of this Ordinance is to grant to Provider the non-
exclusive right to use the present and future Public Way for its business purposes, under the
constraints and for the compensation specified in the Agreement that is attached hereto; provided,
however, that the form of the attached Agreement is subject to such further modifications as may
be approved by City’s mayor in consultation with City’s manager and attorney.

Section 2. Title. This Ordinance shall constitute the “SQF Master License Agreement
Ordinance” referred to in the Agreement.

Section 3. Grant of Access Rights. Provider is hereby granted, in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the Agreement, the right and privilege to construct, maintain and operate
its Wireless Facilities in, under, along, over and across the City’s present and future Public Way.

Section 4. Term. The term of the Agreement is for a period of ten years from and after
the filing of the executed Master License Agreement with the office of the City’s recorder, with a
renewal of an additional ten year term as provided in the Agreement. Provider shall pay any and
all costs of publishing this Ordinance.

Section 5. Acceptance. Provider may execute and deliver the Agreement to City
within 30 days after the effective date of this Ordinance; otherwise, this Ordinance and the rights
granted hereunder to Provider shall be null and void as of and after the effective date of this
Ordinance.

Section 6. Condition. The efficacy of this Ordinance is conditioned on (a) the City
Council’s approval of its Ordinance 338 granting Provider a franchise to use City’s Public Way as
contemplated by the Master License Agreement, and (b) Provider’s timely unqualified acceptance
of that franchise under Ordinance 338 as provided therein.

Section 7. Severability. All parts of this Ordinance are severable, and if any section,
clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held or found to be invalid or
unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, clause or provision shall not
affect the remaining sections, clauses or provisions of this Ordinance.

This Ordinance, assigned no. 337, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law, deposited and recorded in the office of the City Recorder,
and accepted as required herein.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 21“ day of January 2020.

ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HE CITY COUNCIL
DA
pRlcHTs e
Paula Mel pan Recordel A Ney i yi iy > Michael J. Peterson, Mayor
\
rVVWS" VOTING:
“Michael J. Peterson Yea ra Nay
Douglas Petersen Yea “ Nay __
J. Scott Bracken -Yea ra Nay |
Tali C. Bruce *"Yea/Y Nay _
Christine Watson Mikell Yea — Nay __
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 21“ day of January 2020.
POSTED this z2Z day of January 2020.
2
