COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 331
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
CODE OF ORDINANCES REGARDING OUTDOOR LIGHTING

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 e¢ seg., as amended (the “Ac?’”), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission’s recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the City; and

WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the legislative body (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for
the City and codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City’s code of ordinances (the “Code”;
and

WHEREAS, thereafter, the City’s planning commission (the “Planning Commission”)
proposed amending the Code (the “Amendments”) by enacting new Chapter 19.77 (“Outdoor
Lighting”) and making other modifications to Titles 19 and 12 of the Code concerning outdoor
lighting in the City; and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission where citizens
were given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed
Amendments; and

WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended the
Amendments to the Council for adoption; and

WHEREAS, the Council subsequently took additional public comment concerning the
Amendments; and

WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with the Amendments, a copy of
which is annexed as an exhibit to this ordinance, having heretofore formulated various revisions
to the form of the Amendments recommended for adoption by the Planning Commission, as
authorized by UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-502(2); and

WHEREAS, on 15 October 2019, the Council met in regular meeting to consider, among
other things, amending the Code to enact the Amendments, as revised by the Council; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings, and other relevant input,
the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City to adopt and enact the Amendments as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amendments. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendments in the form of the attached exhibit.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance No. 331 (this
“Ordinance”), whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed
and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 331, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 15" day of October 2019.

ATTEST: Zig? HEI, OTTO OD HEIG ITY COUNCIL
< fa) ¢,.
OD 1 G47, ; |
Bye +N VV LAN ;
Paula Melgar Recolin \ 2005-7 Michael J. Petérson, Mayor
VOTING:
Michael J. Peterson Yea Ws Nay __
Michael L. Shelton Yea A Nay |
J. Scott Bracken Yea Nate oh
Tali C. Bruce “Yea “ Nay ___
Christine Watson Mikell +»Yea “Nay __
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 15" day of October 2019.
POSTED this \(day of October 2019.
2

Chapter 19.77
OUTDOOR LIGHTING
Sections:
19.77.010 Purpose.
19.77.020 Definitions.
19.77.030__ Applicability.
19.77.040 _ Lighting standards--Single-family zones.
19.77.050__ Lighting standards--Other zones.
19.77.060__ Exceptions.
19.77.070__ Prohibited lighting.
19.77.080__ Street lighting.
19.77.090__ Lighting plan requirements.
19.77.010 Purpose.

Adequate nighttime outdoor lighting is important to allow human activity to safely continue at
night. However, inappropriate outdoor lighting practices can result in undesirable effects such as
light trespass and decreased safety through glare; poor lighting color: poor energy conservation:
adverse impacts on wildlife and natural ecosystems; and creation of skyglow that can diminish
human enjoyment of the natural world. The regulations in this Chapter seek to mitigate the adverse
impacts of inappropriate outdoor lighting and lead to desired outcomes such as improved
enjoyment of private property; increased health and safety of residents and others; improved
nighttime ambiance and aesthetics; diminished adverse impacts _on natural wildlife and
ecosystems; and conservation of natural resources.

19.77.020 Definitions.

The following definitions shall apply to this chapter:

“Accent architectural lighting” means lighting of building surfaces, landscape features, statues
and similar items for decoration or ornamentation.

“Activity area” means walkways and open spaces where people walk or congregate, except
parking lots.

“Correlated color temperature (CCT)” means a metric characterizing the color content of the
light output of a lamp expressed in units of kelvin (K). CCT information is available on data sheets
and product packaging for most lighting sold in the United States.

“Director” means the city’s director of community and economic development, the director’s
designee, or any designee of the city’s manager.

Floodlight” means a fixture or lamp designed to "flood" an area with light.

“Foot-candle” means a unit of measurement for the total amount of light cast_on_a surface
(illumination). One foot-candle is equivalent to the illumination produced by a source of one
candle at a distance of one-foot.

“Full cutoff light fixture” means _a light fixture that restricts a lamp from radiating any
illumination above a horizontal plane running through the lowest point on the fixture where light
is emitted, nor shall any portion of a lamp extend below this same horizontal plane. Drop lenses
are not allowed. Minimal up light caused by the reflection of light from support structures or arms
shall not disqualify what is otherwise defined as a full cutoff light fixture.

“Glare” means the sensation produced by a bright source within the visual field that is
sufficiently brighter than the level to which eyes are adapted to cause annoyance, discomfort, or
loss_in_visual_ performance and _ visibility: blinding light. The magnitude of glare depends on
such factors as size, position, brightness of the source, and on the brightness level to which the
eyes are adapted.

“Hotspot” means an isolated pool of bright downlight that creates unneeded contrast resulting
in dark areas immediately outside the hotspot area and may also increase glare.

“Incandescent lamp or light bulb” means an electric light with a wire filament heated to such
a high temperature that it glows with visible light (incandescence).

“Illumination or illuminated’ means a measurement of light expressed in foot-candles (fc) on
a given surface resulting from light emitted from a lamp.

| “Kelvin” means a unit of measurement used to measure the correlated color temperature (hue)
of a specific light source.

“Lamp” means any light source in a self-contained package composed of an envelope
(containing gas, filaments, etc.), filament or electrodes, base, contacts, gas and any support
structures. The source can be of the incandescent, fluorescent, quartz halogen, LED or arc type.
Quite often this term is used interchangeably with light source and is sometimes commonly
referred to as the light bulb.

“Light fixture” means the assembly that a holds a lamp, or lamps. It includes the elements
designed to give light output control, such as a reflector (mirror) or refractor (lens), the ballast,
housing, and the attachment parts.

“Light trespass” means a condition created when a lamp provides illumination beyond that
allowed by this chapter on any property other than the property on which the light is installed.

“Lumen” means a unit of measurement used to describe the actual amount of visible light which
is produced by a lamp as specified by its manufacturer.

“Net acre” means the area measured to the property lines of the parcel or lot after all deductions
are made. Deductions include the area of streets and street dedications.

“Qualified lighting professional” means a person who both (a) is a professional engineer
certified by the Utah State Division of Professional Licensing, and _(b) has a professional
certification from _a__legitimate, lighting-industry-recognized organization that _ requires
recertification, current industry involvement and demonstrated knowledge in specific aspects of
lighting.

“Single-family zone” means any F-1, R-1 or RR-1 designated zone in the city.

“Skyglow” means the overhead glow from light emitted sideways and upwards.

“Spectrum.” See “correlated color temperature,” above.

“Visual acuity” means sharpness of vision, measured by the ability to discern letters or numbers
at a given distance according to a fixed standard.

19.77.030__ Applicability.

A. Conformance required. Any new outdoor lighting in a single-family zone shall be installed
in conformance with the provisions of this Chapter. In any situation where there is a conflict with
federal or state regulations, and/or applicable sections of adopted building code, the more
restrictive provisions shall apply.

B. Modifications to existing structures or land uses. New additions to buildings, or areas of
expanded land use, in a single-family zone shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.

C. Routine maintenance. In a single-family zone:

|. Repairing any component of a light fixture, except the lamp, is permitted for all existing
outdoor lighting fixtures; and

2. Lamps shall be replaced in accordance with the provisions of this chapter: provided,
however, if no lamp exists which complies with this Chapter, then the fixture shall be replaced.
19.77.040 __ Lighting standards—Single-family zones.

The following regulations shall apply to all properties in single-family zones (a) constructed
after the enactment of this chapter, or (b) covered by Section 19.77.030.

A. Fixture Types. All outdoor light fixtures that house lamps radiating more than 500 lumens
shall_be full cutoff and oriented as intended per manufacturing instructions.

B. Height. Except for down-lighting within soffits, light fixtures shall not exceed 12 feet in
height.

C. Illumination. Total site illumination shall not exceed:

1. 21,780 lumens per net acre for any property in a single-family zone east of Wasatch
Boulevard.

2. 43,560 lumens per net acre for any other property in a single-family zone.

D. Spectrum. No lamp shall exceed 3,000 kelvin.

E. Automatic switching controls.

|. Except for entry doors and essential security lighting, outdoor lighting should have controls
that automatically extinguish lamps when daylight is available and by 11:00 p.m. Security lighting
should be limited to 25% of the total light fixtures used and is encouraged to utilize motion
activated sensors that extinguished the lamps within two minutes after motion has ceased.

2. Automatic lighting control standards are not required for the lighting of steps, stairs,
walkways, and building entrances when required by the city’s building code and shall not count
toward the 25% of lighting fixtures permitted for security lighting.

19.77.050 Lighting standards—Other zones.

The following regulations shall apply to all properties in non-single-family zones.

A. Permitted light fixture types. All outdoor light fixtures that house lamps radiating more
than 500 lumens shall be full cutoff and oriented as intended per the manufacturer’s instructions.

B. Height. Light fixtures shall not exceed 25 feet in height and shall not exceed 18 feet in
activity areas.

C. Ilumination.

1. The average illumination at finished grade level shall be between 0.5 and 2.5 foot-candles.
No point on the property shall be illuminated greater than 10.0 foot-candles. Properties in the CR,
MU, and PDD zones may have an average illumination at finished grade up to five (5) foot-candles.

2. Atthe property boundary, the illumination at grade level shall not exceed 0.2 foot-candle.

3. Lighting shall increase its illumination by an even gradient toward activity areas, internal
and _street_sidewalks, and driveway entrances to the site. Lighting shall be designed to avoid
hotspots that reduce visual acuity.

4. To avoid light trespass, illumination shall not exceed 0.1 foot-candle at five-feet beyond
the property lines not adjacent to a public street measured five-feet above grade level.

5. Total site illumination shall not exceed:

a. 43.560 lumens per net acre for any multi-family residential zone, or within the RO zone.

b. 50,000 lumens per net acre for any property in the NC zones, properties in the PF zone
with government buildings, or any non-residential use within residential zones.

c. 100,000 lumens per net acre for all other properties in any other zone or area.

D. Spectrum. No lamp shall exceed 3,500 kelvin.

E. Walkways. Pedestrian walkways shall be lighted with bollards or light fixtures at a spacing
that complies with Section 19.77.050(C).

F. Automatic switching controls. Applicants for approval of outdoor lighting plans should
consider installing controls that automatically extinguish all outdoor lighting when daylight is
available and within one hour after business hours or by 11:00 pm, whichever is sooner, except for
essential security lighting which should be no more than 25% of the total light fixtures used.
Security lighting is encouraged to utilize motion activated sensors and be extinguished within two
minutes after motion has ceased.

19.77.060 Exceptions

Exceptions to the lighting standards outlined in Section 19.77.030 are permitted for land uses
and light fixtures as identified in this section.

A. Signs. Signs are regulated by Chapter 19.82 — Signs.

B. Outdoor athletic and recreational facilities. At the time of application, the applicant shall
submit a plan prepared by a qualified lighting professional that certifies by signed, written
statement that every reasonable effort has been undertaken to mitigate the effects of light on
surrounding properties and the creation of skyglow. Outdoor athletic and recreational facility
lighting shall be shut-off by 11:00 pm with the exception of essential security lighting which shall
be no more than 25% of the total light fixtures used.

C. Gasoline station and convenience store canopies. Gasoline station and convenience store
canopies shall provide adequate lighting for customers, but lighting shall not be so intense as to be
as an attention device for the business, as provided in this Section.

1. Light fixtures in the ceiling of a canopy shall be fully recessed in the canopy.

2. Light fixtures shall not be mounted on the top or fascia of a canopy.

3. The fascia of a canopy shall not be illuminated, except for approved signage.

4. Areas around gasoline pump islands and under canopies shall have a minimum illumination
at grade level between one and five and one-half foot-candles. The ratio of average illumination
to the minimum illumination at grade in the areas around the gasoline pumps shall not exceed four
to one (4:1).

D. Car-wash lighting. See Section 19.76.040(H).

E. Accent architectural lighting. Buildings light fixtures may illuminate a structure’s vertical
surfaces and shall be directed downward. Up-lighting is prohibited, except for properties in the
Public Facility (PF) zone, church buildings, publicly owned art, and flag poles for national, state
and local government flags. Illumination of vertical surfaces shall not exceed an illumination of
five foot-candles.

F. Flood lights. Full cutoff flood lights shall be angled provided that no light escapes above a
25 degree angle measured from the vertical line from the center of the light extended to the ground,
and only if the light does not cause glare or light to shine on adjacent property or public rights-of-
way. All wall pack light fixtures shall be full cutoff light fixtures.

G. Swimming pool lighting. Underwater light fixtures are not regulated by this chapter.

H. Seasonal lighting. Temporary exterior lighting intended as holiday/seasonal decorations
may be illuminated for up to 180 nonconsecutive days per year, provided that individual lamps do
not cause unreasonable light trespass or glare as determined by the director.

|

I. Parking structure lighting. Interior lighting within parking structures shall be limited to ten
foot-candles for parking areas, ramps and entrances. Stairways may be illuminated up to 20 foot-
candles.

J. Public safety. Upon recommendation by the police or fire department, the illumination and
kelvin thresholds may be exceeded in situations where the director finds that an increased level is
crucial to public safety or law enforcement activities. In no case shall kelvin levels exceed 5,000.
19.77.070__ Prohibited lighting.

The following lighting shall be prohibited:

A. Blinking, flashing, moving, revolving, flickering, changing intensity of illumination, and
changing color lights, except for seasonal lighting as provided in Section 19.77.050(H);

B. Uplighting of building and illumination of roofs and internal illumination of awnings:

D. Search lights, laser source lights, or any similar high-intensity light except in emergencies
by police, fire, and other emergency service personnel or at their direction.

19.77.080__ Street lighting.

Street lighting shall be governed by Section 12.24.190 of this code.
19.77.090_ _ Lighting plan requirements.

A. Lighting plans. Lighting plans shall be required whenever the applicability provisions
apply as described in Section 19.77.20, and shall include the following:

|. A site plan indicating the location of all light fixtures, both proposed and any already
existing on the site. The lighting plan shall include a photometric plan illustrating horizontal foot-
candles at a minimum of two by two feet in spacing and at five feet beyond the property line. The
photometric plan shall be submitted on a “maintained” basis at one-year after burn-in and state the
light loss factors used in the calculation.

2. A description of each light fixture, lamp, support and shield, both proposed and existing.
The description shall include, but is not limited to, manufacturer’s catalog cuts and illustrations:
lighting fixture lamp types, wattages and initial lumen outputs.

3. Except for single-family residential properties, the lighting and photometric plan shall be
prepared by a qualified lighting professional.

4. At the city’s discretion, the city’s public safety departments or providers may review and
provide feedback on lighting plans as part of the development review process. This review shall
be administered by the city’s development review committee (DRC).

B. Lamp or light fixture alteration. Should any lamp or light fixture be altered after a permit
has been issued, a change request must be submitted to the director for approval, together with
adequate information to assure compliance with this Chapter, which must be received prior to
alteration.

C. Certification of installation. For all projects where the total initial output of the proposed
lighting equals or exceeds 75,000 lumens per acre, certification that the lighting, as installed,
conforms to the approved plans shall be provided by a qualified lighting professional before any
certificate of occupancy or business license is issued. Until this certification is submitted, approval
for use of a certificate of occupancy shall not be issued for the project.

er
S 5 oS >
2 hema <=Setno ue ove Pfs 9.4430 a cho ave ? foc ale SVnWe isto t otha vs alata nts = HAN an ac
a ar bearght o Hast o Bt at at at Ors he ob avs bale ntan Ge of bialdad Om
S >
ii sdential
| oO oO o e.
Pe
2 2
Baattondiite al
©
2 beam. mim borght o Minories iYs avn » foo ale he-plonnines comm on-red aco
vone-oreradjacentresidentiatoragriertttival tise:
C_Padestsi i Lal belishted
B A ahting ne +e dantia ata ¥-\ an bare SYa meat esta tatan ts aavat nots on an a ove He
5 =, > =, ?
> 5 >
io 2 2 L
noccantable oh = gece toadiscan acidantio ane va a ac datarminad b e aft
S 5 >
ae
2 Hem 5 9944533 herohto 5.4430 Q ave he * ae nie S¥-WaUistatatiats Malatant oe at = Q >
5 >
, ‘
C-Pedestranawallavaysshatt-betighted:
i) A oh = ve ore dantic a ~ hora the nmloannin COMI an ac Q ate he
eut-ofHtehtitetotediceteht peltition,
ae
2 2
biectionable-cl
2
[2 hem. mii borght o saekats - Ly ave 2 tae ale he nlonning comm Anread 63 .
e
5 — >
‘ :
CPedestranwallavavs-shattbetichted
a A obting mo Srecidantiq Ce 8 i ose tho 9s | ey es prey eae Ap reac ~ ha he
\) 5 5 5) 5 2
eo-el Hehtingtoredice tight pollution:

|
19.51.060 Site development regulations.
B.
13. Lighting Standards.
a; Lighting shall be regulated by Chapter 19.77 — Lighting. Fhe-maximum-height-of
e.

12.24.190 Street lighting.
A. The subdivider shall install street lights. The street lighting shall be 5600 lumens equivalent
light-emitting diode (LED) or induction lighting as approved by the city engineer. A 9500 lumens
equivalent light-emitting diode (LED) or induction lighting shall be used at intersections as
approved by the city engineer. Lighting shall be 3500 kelvin or less.
| B. Street lights shall be on an average no more than 275 feet apart. Placement shall alternate from
| one side of the street to the other and shall be placed on side property lines. At intersections the
streetlight shall be located near the intersection.
underground. All lighting fixtures shall be designed and installed in accordance with the city’s
official street light policy with power underground.
D. The lights shall be installed in the space between the curb and sidewalks. In situations where
the sidewalk is integral, the streetlight shall be placed within two feet of the sidewalk.
E. Final placement of street lights shall be approved in writing by the City Engineer or its designee.
