COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS |
ORDINANCE No. 374 :
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 9.65.020(D), |
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES,
CONCERNING AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS
WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council”’) of the city of |
Cottonwood Heights (the “City’”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code’’) for the City; and
WHEREAS, Code Chapter 9.65 concerns the City’s adoption of the International Fire
Code to prescribe regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and property from fire and
explosion; and
WHEREAS, each of Utah’s political subdivision must comply with the state fire code,
and such compliance requires an amendment of the Code to reflect changes in state law
concerning the fire code as they occur; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to its Ordinance No. 260 dated 29 November 2016, the Council
enacted an ordinance codified as Code Section 9.65.020(D) (“Section 9.65.020(D)”) requiring
automatic fire sprinkler systems in certain residential structures; and
WHEREAS, thereafter Unified Fire Authority, the City’s fire and emergency services
provider, advised the City to amend Section 9.65.020(D) as authorized by UTAH CODE ANN.
§15A-5-203; and
WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 18 January 2022 to consider, among
other things, so amending Section 9.65.020(D) as proposed; and
WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety, and welfare of its residents to so amend Section 9.65.020(D);
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of
Cottonwood Heights as follows:
Section 1. Amendment of Section 9.65.020(D). The Council hereby amends Section
9.65.020(D) of the Code as shown on the attached exhibit, which shows material deletions to the
current Sections struck-threugh or otherwise shown as deletions, and material additions to the
current Sections underlined or otherwise shown as additions. Minor changes to formatting,
punctuation and the like are not marked on the attached exhibit.
Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’’),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.
Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any

reason, be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such
section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs,
clauses or provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. A\l ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 374, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 18" day of January 2022.
ATTEST: mre . COTTONWOODHEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
By Naas VO 6 Oi 3
Paula M ele} r, Recorde ies Is ickael T. Weichers, Mayor
2009 ig
vvv< "VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea Nay __
Douglas Petersen Yea X Nay
J. Scott Bracken Yea y Nay___
Shawn E. Newell Yea » Nay
Ellen Birrell Yea ~ Nay
DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 18" day of January 2022.
POSTED this _|{day of January 2022.
2

|
EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 374
9.65.020 Amendments to IFC. :
A. The City hereby adopts by reference and incorporates herein the additions and
amendments to the IFC adopted by the Utah State Legislature from time to time.
B. Section 903.4.2 of the IFC is amended to read as follows:
903.4.2 Alarms. Approved audible devices shall be connected to every automatic sprinkler
system serving more than 20 fire sprinkler heads. Such sprinkler water flow alarm devices shall
be activated by water flow equivalent to the flow of a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size
installed in the system. Alarm devices shall be provided on the exterior of the building and
interior spaces per NFPA 72 in an approved location. With the exception of R-3 occupancies ;
where a fire alarm system is installed, activation of the automatic sprinkler system shall activate
the building fire alarm system.
C. Section 310.8 of the IFC is amended to read as follows:
310.8 Hazardous environmental conditions. When the fire code official determines that
hazardous environmental conditions necessitate controlled use of any ignition source, including
fireworks, lighters, matches, sky lanterns, and smoking materials:
(i) the legislative body of a municipality within which the hazardous environmental
conditions exist may prohibit only the ignition or use of the ignition source in mountainous,
brush-covered areas or the wildland urban interface area, which means the line, area,
development meet or intermingle with undeveloped wildland or land being used for an
agricultural purpose; and
(ii) where hazardous environmental conditions exist in unincorporated areas that meet the
description in Subsection 1(c)(i), the state forester may prohibit the ignition or use of the ignition
source in all or part of these areas, after consulting with the county fire code official having
jurisdiction over that area.
D. As authorized by UTAH CODE ANN. §15A-5-203, Chapter 5 of the IFC concerning fire
service features is amended to include the following provisions related to fire safety, building
and site requirements:
1, The city requires an automatic fire sprinkler system for a structure built in accordance
with the International Residential Code if any of the following conditions exist:
(a) The structure:
(i) Is located in an urban-wildland interface area as provided in the Utah Wildland Urban
Interface Code adopted as a construction code under the State Construction Code; and
(ii) Does not meet the requirements described in UTAH CODE ANN. 65A-8-203(4)(a), as
amended, and UTAH ADMINISTRATIVE CODE R652-122-200, Minimum Standards for Wildland
Fire Ordinance, as amended;
(b) The structure is in an area where a public water distribution system with fire hydrants
does not exist as required in UTAH ADMINISTRATIVE CODE R309-550-5, Water Main Design, as
amended;
(c) The only fire apparatus access road has a grade greater than 10% for more than 500
continual feet;
2, Subject to review _and approval by Unified Fire Authority through the city’s building
permitting process, an automatic fire sprinkler system shall be required to be installed in any
residential structure built in accordance with the International Residential Code (IRC) if any of
the following conditions exist:
3 .

(a) The total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls of the dwelling exceeds ten |
thousand (10,000) square feet; or
(b) The total floor area of all floor levels within the exterior walls of the dwelling unit is
double the average of the total floor area of all floor levels of un-sprinklered homes in the
subdivision that are no larger than ten thousand (10,000) square feet; .
3._ Notwithstanding the foregoing subsections (1) and (2), a single-family dwelling does not
require a fire sprinkler system if all the following conditions exist concerning that dwelling:
(a) The dwelling is located outside the wildland interface; :
(b) The dwelling is built on a lot that is not part of a multi-lot subdivision; and
(c) The dwelling has defensible space on all sides that limits the propensity of fire spreading
from the dwelling to another property. .
4
