COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 444
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 19 OF
THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
(NEIGHBORHOOD MIXED USE)

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 ef seg., as amended (the “Ac?’), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission’s recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the City; and

WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the legislative body (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “Cit’”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for
the City and codifying such ordinance as Title 19 (“Title 79°) of the City’s code of ordinances (the
“Code”); and

WHEREAS, thereafter, the City’s planning commission (the “Planning Commission’)
formulated proposed amendments (the “Amendments’”) to Title 19 to clarify ambiguous definitions
and procedures, eliminate and amend certain uses, and rectify conflicting provisions the Chapter
19.37 of the Code concerning the Neighborhood Commercial zone and related matters; and

WHEREAS, because certain of the Amendments affect Title 19, and to provide an
opportunity for public input concerning all the proposed Amendments, a public hearing was held
before the Planning Commission on 4 June 2025 where citizens were given the opportunity to
provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed Amendments; and

WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended the
Amendments to the Council for adoption; and

WHEREAS, the Council subsequently took additional public comment concerning the
Amendments; and

WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with the Amendments, a copy of
which is annexed as an exhibit to this ordinance, including any amendments proposed by the
Council to the form of the Amendments affecting Title 19 that were recommended for adoption
by the Planning Commission, as authorized by UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-502(2); and

WHEREAS, on 17 June 2025 the Council met in regular meeting to consider, among other
things, amending the Code to enact the Amendments, including any such revisions; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings, and other relevant input,
the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City to adopt and enact the Amendments as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amendments. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendments in the form of the attached exhibit, wherein deletions to the current affected
ordinances are struck+hreugh or otherwise shown as deletions and additions to the current affected
ordinances are underlined or otherwise shown as additions.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’’),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 444, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 17" day of June 2025.

ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
Loess 2
aie a/ ‘ a 4 4M, ~—.
By: \0'D & 714 pial |
Tiffany ar en, RleCordd LAN) = Michael T. V eichers, Mayor
Se
2

VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea x Nay
Matt Holton Yea 4% Nay
Suzanne Hyland Yea #- Nay____
Shawn E. Newell Yea “% Nay
Ellen Birrell Yea ~ Nay
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 17" day of June 2025.
POSTED this __ day of June 2025.
3

Title 19 Zoning
19.04 Definitions
19.04.1795 Neighborhood Mixed-Use
A single building containing more than one type of land use, at least one of which may be
residential. or a single development of more than one building and use, one of which is
residential, where the different types of land uses are in close proximity, planned as a unified
complementary whole, and functionally integrated to the use of shared vehicular and pedestrian
access and parking areas.
Title 19.37 NC — Neighborhood Commercial Zone
19.37.010 Purpose
The NC zone is intended to protect and enhance neighborhood commercial areas by promoting
the concentration of businesses that provide convenience goods and services used frequently by
local residents. This zone provides for a scale and character of development that is consistent
with pedestrian-orientation and which tends to attract and promote a walk-in clientele.
Development within this zone should maximize human scale elements while providing a
sensitive transition between these uses and neighboring residences, including the provision of
adequate and properly-sited parking facilities. Additionally, the NC zone encourages residential
mixed use to further enhance the transition between neighborhood commercial and adjacent
residential uses, consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city’s general plan.
19.37.020 Permitted Uses
There are no permitted uses in the NC zone.
19.37.030 Conditional Uses
Conditional uses in the NC zone are as follows:
consistent vith_ permitted and-conditionalises inthis chapter Neighborhood Mixed-Use;
3.2.Commercial recreation;
4.3.Reception center;
34.Convenience store;
6-5.Grocery store, foodstuffs, retailing, or delicatessen with a maximum gross floor area of
no more than 7,500 square feet on any one floor and 15,000 gross occupiable square feet;
7.6.Convenience store/fast food combination without gasoline;
$.7.Medical, optical, dental offices and clinics for health professionals, with the exception of
after-hours care, overnight care or traditional medical retail stores, with a maximum gross
floor area of no more than 7,500 square feet on any one floor and 15,000 gross
occupiable square feet:
9.8.Administrative, general or professional offices containing no more than 7,500 square feet
on any one floor and 15,000 gross occupiable square feet;
4

410-9. Studios for an artist, designer, writer, photographer, sculptor or musician:
+410. Restaurant or bar establishment;
smM@ALG
42-11. Retaiycommercial; ©
43-12. Churches;
46.13. Child day-care/preschool:;
44.14. Parks, playgrounds or community recreation;
49.15. Public and private utility buildings or facilities;
2416. Chithoy Raut day care facilities; @
22.17. Schools;
| 23—-LiveAvork-spaces-and_temporariy omitted, per Ordinance 432) LiveAwvork spaces: and (temporary omitted_per Ordinance 43
HISTORY &
Amended by Ord. 429 on 1/7/2025
Amended by Ord. 432 on 2/18/2025
19.37.040 Mi iidingNeighborhood Mixed-Use
1. A-mixed-useNeighborhood Mixed-Use is a single building containing more than one type
of land use, at least one of which may be residential, or a single development of more
than one building and use, one of which is residential, where the different types of land
uses are in close proximity, planned as a unified complementary whole, and functionally
integrated to the use of shared vehicular and pedestrian access and parking areas. building
5

oie 1 bvanidinestal Sechey:dibane ali nian alain
| ee yan
_ i Siri Se tS  — tT & | — Qei

2. All Neighborhood Commercial development standards relevant to a proposed
setbacks, minimum lot size, etc. shall apply.
Neighborhood Commercial chapter.

4. The non-residential portion of a Neighborhood Mixed Use project shall constitute a
minimum of 25% of the total gross floor area of the entire unit or project square footage.
At least 50% of the unit or project frontage at ground level along a public right-of-way
shall be dedicated to the non-residential portion of the project.

19.37.050 Limitations On Use
The following conditions and limitations shall apply in the NC zone:

1. The maximum floor area of each separate use confined within enclosing walls shall be
limited to 7,500 square feet on the first story. Below-grade square footage (i.e.,
basements) shall not be included in the maximum floor area so long as the area below
grade is not occupiable space.

2. The maximum floor area for schools shall be decided on case-by-case basis by the
planning commission pursuant to Chapter 19.84 (Conditional Uses) of this title.

3. All business, service, repair, processing, and storage, including refuse and garbage
storage, shall be conducted wholly within enclosed buildings except the display of plants
and off-street parking and loading.

4. Items produced or wares and merchandise handled shall be limited to those sold at retail
on the premises.

19.37.060 Setbacks/Yard Requirements
The setbacks and yard requirements in the NC zone are as follows:

1. The minimum yard along a street shall equal the front yard required in the least restricted
adjacent residential zone.

6

2. Minimum side and rear yards of 25 feet shall be required for those portions of a lot in an
NC zone abutting a residential zone. For lots adjacent to a non-residential use the
minimum setback shall be ten feet for side and rear yards.

3. The minimum front, rear, and side yard setbacks for two-story buildings with commercial
activity occurring on the second floor for property located in non-mixed use designated
areas shall be at least one-half of the height of the principal structure.

4. Also see chart 19.37.140 for more setback information for the NC zone.

19.37.070 Minimum Lot Size
Provided that all other standards in this chapter are met, there is no minimum lot size or
dimensional requirements for development in the Neighborhood Commercial zone.

2 The mini ee a ee a ee eT ii

19.37.080 Maximum Height Of Structures
1. For uses where the slope of the original ground surface is greater than 15%, or if a slope
stability hazard is present on site, the maximum structure height shall be 30 feet.
| 2. All other properties shall not exceed a height of #vo-steries-or35 feet..-vhicheveristess
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 4/2 on 4/9/2024
19.37.090 Maximum Lot Coverage
The maximum lot coverage in the NC zone is 50%, including all structures, except portions of
those properties also located in the Sensitive Lands Overlay Zone, for which the maximum lot
coverage shall be 30% including all structures and impervious surfaces.
HISTORY
Amended by Ord. 412 on 4/9/2024
19.37.100 Master Development Plan Required
Developments in the NC zone will be required to comply with a master development plan
approved by the planning commission.
19.37.110 (Reserved)
19.37.120 Screening

1. All trash or refuse receptacle areas shall be completely screened from surrounding
properties by a masonry wall or screening that is a minimum of six feet high with visually
obscuring painted metal gates, or shall be enclosed within a building. Any trash or refuse
receptacle area shall be a minimum of 50 feet from any residential zone boundary or
property containing a residential use.

,

2. All ground-mounted mechanical equipment (including, without limitation, heating and air
conditioning units) shall be completely screened from surrounding properties by a
masonry wall or shall be enclosed within a building.

3. The use of roof appurtenances is discouraged. If roof appurtenances (including, without
limitation, air conditioning units and mechanical equipment) are used, they shall be
placed within an enclosure at least as high as the roof appurtenances that reflects the
architectural design scheme of the project and complies with the requirements for
penthouses and roof structures of the city’s building code. Such enclosures require
planning commission approval, and shall minimize visibility from on-site parking areas,
adjacent public streets, and adjacent residential property.

4. All utility connections shall be compatible with the architectural elements of the site and
not be exposed except where necessary. Pad-mounted transformers and/or meter box
locations shall be included in the site plan with an appropriate screening treatment. Power
lines and other utility cables shall be installed underground where possible.

5. Loading areas and docks shall be screened by landscaping and/or visual barriers from
adjacent properties and public streets.

19.37.130 Landscaping Requirements

1. All developments of over one acre in size shall dedicate at least 15% of the gross acreage
to landscaping, including, without limitation, landscape buffers, seating areas, walkways,
etc. Drought resistant plants are encouraged.

2. All developments in the NC zone shall provide a landscaped buffer, not less than eight
feet in width, with trees planted no less than 30 feet on center, between any commercial
development and any residential use or vacant land in a residential zone. This
requirement can be included within the side and rear setbacks of the NC zone.
Developments in the NC zone are intended to blend with the surrounding land uses,
whether they are residential or non-residential. For that reason, the landscaped buffer
should not be used as an obstructing barrier between land uses, but rather provide a
landscaped transition between uses, with pedestrian walkways and trails.

19.37.140 Charts And Figures

Minimum Front Yard Equal to front yard of least restricted adjacent residential zone
Minimum Side and Rear Yards 25 feet if abutting a residential zone; ten feet otherwise
7.000-squarefeetNo minimum lot size — see 19.37.070
Minimum Width at Building Line 6Q4eetNo minimum lot width — see 19.37.070

Minimum Lot Depth No minimum lot depth — see 19.37.070 90-feet

Maximum Lot Coverage 50%

| Maximum Building Height Pwe-steries-or-35 feet>rhicheveristess
8
