COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 428
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 19.89.190 OF THE
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
REGARDING SHORT-TERM RENTAL VIOLATION PENALTIES

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 et seg., as amended (the “Ac?”), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare and
recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land use
ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning commission’s
recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative body
to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the City; and

WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the legislative body (the “Council’’) of the city of Cottonwood
Heights (the “City”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for the City and
codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City’s code of ordinances (the “Code”’); and

WHEREAS, thereafter, the City’s planning commission (the “Planning Commission’)
formulated proposed amendments (the “Amendments’’) to Section 19.89.190 of the Code concerning
penalties for short-term rental violations in the City; and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission where citizens were
given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed Amendments; and

WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended the
Amendments to the Council for adoption; and

WHEREAS, the Council subsequently took additional public comment concerning the
Amendments; and

WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with the Amendments, a copy of which
is annexed as an exhibit to this ordinance, including any amendments proposed by the Council to the
form of the Amendments recommended for adoption by the Planning Commission, as authorized by
UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-502(2); and

WHEREAS, on 17 December 2024 the Council met in regular meeting to consider, among
other things, amending the Code to enact the Amendments, including any such revisions; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings, and other relevant input, the

Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of
the City to adopt and enact the Amendments as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption _of Amendments. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendments in the form of the attached exhibit, wherein deletions to the current ordinance are strucl
through and additions to the current ordinance are underlined.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’”’), whether
taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are severable,
and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to
be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section, paragraph, clause
or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or provisions of this
Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance are,
to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 428, shall take immediate effect
as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office
of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 17" day of December 2024.

ATTEST: »& “COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
Maria Devereux, Deputy Recorde: ee ‘ars ighael Tr. Weichers, Mayor
_* SVOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea Nay
Matt Holton Yea Nay
Suzanne Hyland YeaS< Nay___
Shawn E. Newell Yea\Z Nay___
Ellen Birrell Yea~Z Nay
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 17" day of December 2024.
POSTED this | day of December 2024.
2
