COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 411
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 19.76, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS

CODE OF ORDINANCES, CONCERNING PAVED ACTIVITY SURFACES

WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”) for the City; and

WHEREAS, Code Chapter 19.76 (“Chapter 19.76”) details the city’s supplemental and
qualifying rules and regulations for land use in the City; and

WHEREAS, the City’s planning commission (the “Planning Commission”) has
formulated proposed amendments (the “Amendments”) to Chapter 19.76 concerning paved
activity surfaces in the City; and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission where citizens
were given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed
Amendments; and

WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended the
Amendments to the Council for adoption; and

WHEREAS, the Council subsequently took additional public comment concerning the
Amendments; and

WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with the Amendments, a copy of
which is annexed as an exhibit to this ordinance, including any amendments proposed by the
Council to the form of the Amendments recommended for adoption by the Planning
Commission, as authorized by UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-502(2); and

WHEREAS, on 5 March 2024 the Council met in regular meeting to consider, among
other things, amending the Code to enact the Amendments, including any such revisions; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings, and other relevant input,
the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City to adopt and enact the Amendments as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of
Cottonwood Heights as follows:

Section 1. Amendment of Chapter 19.76. The Council hereby amends Chapter 19.76 |
of the Code as shown on the attached exhibit, which shows any deletions to Chapter 19.76 struek

threugh and any additions to Chapter 19.76 underlined. Minor changes to formatting,
punctuation and the like may not be marked on the attached exhibit.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any
reason, be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such
section, paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs,
clauses or provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 411, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 5" day of March 2024.
Bs, 3 abet BA
AT iT: : wy PP 00) AON ONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
By: ave" “NA if ray (218 (+ “[. ee
Paula Melg iN, Recorder ene 2008 men lichael T. Weichers, Mayor
a en
Michael T. Weichers Yea___—iNay \
Matt Holton Yea 4~% Nay |
Suzanne Hyland Yea X Nay___
Shawn E. Newell Yea _ Nay
Ellen Birrell Yea _X Nay__
DEPOSITED in the office of the City Recorder this 5" day of March 2024.
POSTED this Y day of March 2024.
2

|
|
|
EXHIBIT |
19.76.010 Definitions |
“Paved activity ) surface” means any area or surface over 500 sq ware feet that is paved or
otherwise covered with a non-vegetative material utilized for activities such as sports/recreation
(of pets or humans), or other similar uses and not includ ing areas such as driveways, walkways,
and parking lots with the sole purpose of providing access to or within a property.
19.76.060 Paved Activity Surfaces
A. Purpose. This _secion regulates paved activity surfaces in order to mitigate the
potential unique impacts the use of such areas presents in terms of noise, outdoor
lighting, and fencing.
B. Applicability. The regulations of this section apply to all paved activity surfaces
approved or constructed after March 5, 2024. The regulations in this section do not
apply to paved activity surfaces legally constructed and already in existence as of that
date, including the routine maintenance and repair of said surfaces. Improper ruse of
of the requirements of this code are subject to enforcement.

1. Building Permit Required. Paved_activity surfaces require _a_building
permit issued by the city, including review by all relevant city
departments. The specifications for building permit plans may vary by | |
project scope, but at a minimum shall include a site plan with setbacks
material, height, and setback to_property lines: outdoor lighting details
including fixture height, bulb lumen, bulb kelvin, and lamp cut sheets; and

2. Setback Requirements. All paved activity surfaces shall comply with all
that such surfaces without vertical structures are not required to be at least
six feet away from the primary structure on the property.

3. Fencing Regulations. Any fencing associated with paved activity surfaces |
shall conform to the standards outlined in Section 19.76.050 and other |
surface shall conform to the standards outlined in Chapter 19.77 of this
title, “Outdoor Lighting.”

3 }

3 Affidavit Required. All applications for paved activity surfaces shall
that is signed by the record owner(s) of the property and that includes a
‘statement that_use of the approved paved activity surface is subject to
ordinances. The affidavit shall be recorded against title to the property in
connection with any city approval of the paved activity surface to give
perpetual constructive notice of the necessity of continued compliance of
|
|
| |
|
|
|
4 |
