COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 445
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2.20.120 OF THE
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES

WHEREAS, recently UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-208 concerning campaign finance
disclosure in municipal elections has been amended by the Utah Legislature in ways which affect
the provisions of Section 2.20.120 of the code of ordinances (the “Code”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) concerning that same matter; and

WHEREAS, on | July 2025 the City’s city council (the “Council”) met in regular meeting
to consider, among other things, amending and restating Code Section 2.20.120 to conform to
UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-208 as currently enacted or as hereafter amended; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to adopt and enact such
amendment and restatement (the “Amendment’”) as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amendment. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendment in the form of the attached exhibit.

Section 2. Action of Officers. A\l actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 445, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 1) day of July 2025.

sto
ATTEST: eS SGRPFONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
Tiffany Japzen, Recorder 4 Coe 2s WiChael T. Weichers, Mayor
Porat’ 7

VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea & Nay ___
Matt Holton Yea X, Nay _
Suzanne Hyland Yea Nay _
Shawn E. Newell Yea Nay |
Ellen Birrell Yea ~ Nay __

DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 1“ day of July 2025.

; \,
POSTED this | day of July 2025.
2

EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 445
2.20.120 Campaign financial disclosure.

A. The city hereby adopts by reference all the provisions of UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-208 as
currently enacted or as hereafter amended or superseded. Without limiting the foregoing:

1. Each candidate for elective office in the city shall file with the city recorder a signed, dated,
and swom campaign financial disclosure statement (“disclosure statement’) that complies with the
provisions of this section.

2. The time for filing disclosure statements shall be as provided in UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-
208.

3. The contents of disclosure statements shall be as provided in UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-208.

4. Disclosure statements required by this section shall be public records, available for public
inspection and copying during regular city business hours, as provided in UTAH CODE ANN. §10-
3-208.

B. In addition to the other penalties provided by UTAH CODE ANN. §10-3-208, any person who
fails to comply with this section is guilty of an infraction.

3
