COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE No. 390
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 1 1.16.010 OF THE
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES CONCERNING
SPEED DESIGNATIONS FOR CERTAIN ROADWAYS

WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”) for the City; and

WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 13 December 2022 to consider, among
other things, amending Section 11.16.010 of the Code concerning the designation of speeds for
certain roadways in the City; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to so amend Section 11.16.010
of the Code as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amended Section 11.16.010. The Council hereby amends
Section 11.16.010 (the “Section”) of the Code as shown on the attached exhibit, which shows
deletions to the current Section strueckthrovgh or otherwise shown as deletions, and additions to
the current Section underlined or otherwise shown as additions.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance’’),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 390, shall take effect as soon
as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of
the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 13" day of December 2022.

ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
\, : ae BEI. SS ~
Paula ee ecorder: ae eat a Migh’elT. Weichers~Mayor
&\ ‘ 2005 M/s
Py joa voTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea aw Nay |
Douglas Petersen Yea ¢ Nay
J. Scott Bracken Yea X Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea X Nay
Ellen Birrell Yea\Z Nay
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 13 day of December 2022.
POSTED this) 4 day of December 2022.
2

11.16.010 Designation by transportation engineer.

A. The transportation engineer may alter or change the prima facie speed limits within

the city set by UTAH CODE ANN. §41-6a-601, as follows:

1. The prima facie speed therein declared may be found greater than is reasonable or

safe under the conditions found to exist at any intersection, and upon the erection of

appropriate signs giving notice thereof, the speed limit may be changed to one deemed

reasonable and safe.

2. Higher speeds than those therein authorized may be substituted upon through

highways or portions thereof where there are no intersections or between widely spaced

intersections, provided appropriate signs are erected giving notice of the authorized speed.

ca Determine that the prima facie speed permitting upon any highway outside a

business or residential district is greater than is reasonable or safe under conditions found

to exist and upon posting of appropriate signs and notices, declare a reasonable and safe
| limit-whieh-shall in-ne-event_betessthan35-—miles-per-hour. Wherever the drop is ten

miles per hour_or greater, it must be preceded by a sign giving advance notice of such

reduction.

B. No changes shall be effective until the transportation engineer has made a full

investigation of engineering and traffic conditions demanding such change.

3
