COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO, 433
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING CHAPTER 11.34 OF THE
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE CONCERNING ELECTRIC SCOOTERS

WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”) for the City; and

WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 4 March 2025 to consider, among other
things, enacting Chapter 11.34 (“Chapter 11.34”) of the Code concerning electric scooters and
similar vehicles; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to so enact Chapter 11.34 as
proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Enactment of Chapter 11.34. The Council hereby enacts Chapter 11.34 of
the Code as shown on the attached exhibit, with additions to current Title 11 underlined and
deletions to current Title 11 streuck+throveh.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance No. 433 (this
“Ordinance”), whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed
and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 433, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this'4" day of March 2025.

ATTEST: © os, COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
Tiffany Janzen, Recorder 2s Michael T. Weichers, Mayor
VY Ty ‘

VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea KH Nay
Matt Holton Yea “A Nay___
Suzanne Hyland Yeayl Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yeayf Nay___
Ellen Birrell Yea ~ Nay___
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 4° day of March 2025.
POSTED this _ day of March 2025.

EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 433
Title 11
VEHICLES AND TRAFFIC
Chapters:
11.04 General Provisions
11.08 Traffic Control Regulations
11.12 Vehicle Control Restrictions
11.16 Speed Limits
11.18 Drug Paraphernalia
11.20 Stopping, Standing and Parking
11.22 Parking Permit Program
11.24 Traffic and Parking on School Grounds
11.28 Driving Under the Influence of Intoxicants
11.32 Bicycles
11.34 Electric Scooters
11.36 Pedestrians
11.40 Abandoned and Impounded Vehicles
11.44 Penalties, Parties and Procedures on Arrest
Chapter 11.34
ELECTRIC SCOOTERS
Sections:
11.34.010 Definitions.
11.34.020 Required equipment.
11.34.030 Rules of operation.
11.34.040 Rules of parking.
11.34.050 Enforcement.
11.34.010 Definitions.
For purposes of this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivatives shall have
the meanings set forth in this section:
A. “Handheld wireless communication device” is defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §41-6a-1716(1),
as amended.
B. “Motor assisted scooter” or “e-scooter” is defined in UTAH CODE ANN. §41-6a-102(39), as
amended.
C. “Park” or “parking” means the process or result of stopping, standing, leaving unattended, or
abandoning any e-scooter.
D. “Right-of-way”” means any public alley, parkway. public transportation path, roadway. street,
sidewalk, or trail owned, granted by easement, operated, or controlled by the city.
11.34.020 Required equipment.
E-scooters may not be operated at nighttime unless equipped with:
A. A forward-facing lamp that emits a white light visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to
the front.
B. A rear-facing red lamp that emits flashing or non-flashing light visible from a distance of at

least 500 feettothe rear,

C. Reflective material of sufficient size and reflectivity to be visible or a lamp that emits light
D._ All e-scooters shall be equipped with a working bell, horn, or other sound mechanism, but not
with a siren or whistle. = ae ;

11.34.030 Rules of operation. .

A. An e-scooter must be operated in accordance with all state, county. and local traffic laws.
Under state law, an e-scooter must follow all bicycle laws. In the event of any conflict between
state law and the provisions of this chapter, state law will control.

B._E-scooters are to be operated in bikeways, bike lanes, or multi-use trails, where available.

C. Ifa bikeway, bike lane, or multi-use trail is not available. an e-scooter may be operated on a
sidewalk or within the shoulder of any street outside the striped travel lane. if available.

D. Ifa bikeway, bike lane, multi-use trail, sidewalk, or shoulder of any street outside the striped
travel lane is not available, an e-scooter may be operated on a street, but riders must stay to the
right of vehicular travel lanes. BS
E._E-scooters may not be operated in vehicular travel lanes on streets with a speed limit greater
than 35 miles per hour. -

F. In a bikeway, bike lane, or on multi-use trails, an e-scooter must yield the right-of-way to a
bicycle.

G. An e-scooter must yield to a pedestrian under all circumstances.

H. An e-scooter may be operated in accordance with rules applicable to_a pedestrian when
crossing through crosswalks.

I. _E-scooter riders under the age of 21 shall wear protective headgear as required by UTAH CODE
ANN. §41-6a-1505, as amended. Helmets are strongly recommended for all other riders.

J._A rider must ride an e-scooter responsibly and safely by keeping a reasonable and proper
lookout for other traffic, persons, or objects. ) ) OO
K._ An e-scooter may not be operated by a person under the age of eight years, and an owner of an
e-scooter may not authorize or knowingly permit a person under eight years to operate an e-scooter.
L._An e-scooter rider must obey all traffic-controldevices. 8 —™” _

M. While operating an_e-scooter, a_rider_is prohibited from using a handheld wireless
hands in the control and operation of the e-scooter.

N._E-scooters may not be operated on private property without permission of the owner of the
O. A person may not operate an e-scooter while consuming an alcoholic beverage or while under
the influence of alcohol or any drug to a degree that renders the operator incapable of safely
operating a motor vehicle within the city as set forth in UTAH CODE ANN. §41-6a-502, as amended.
Any e-scooter that is not in use shall be secured to a permitted dock rack or corral or otherwise
placed as required below:

A. An e-scooter must be parked upright on a hard surface. |

B. An e-scooter may not, at any time, be placed or left in such a way as to impede the normal
operation or the free flow of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, including in the following areas:

2. Any vehicle travel lane, bikeway, or bike lane:

3. Any vehicle parking space:

4. Any Utah Transit Authority (UTA) TRAX or other public transit boarding platform;

5. Anywhere that impedes safe access to or egress from a UTA bus:

6. Within 15 feet of any building access or egress, including driveways:

7. Within ten feet of any UTA bus stop sign: -

8. Within 30 feet of any ADA ramp or access of any kind:

9. Anywhere that impedes the use of an existing permitted docking station or corral for e-scooters
or other mobility devices:

10. Within 15 feet of any traffic signal pole:

11. Within 20 feet of any existing dock, rack or corral used exclusively for dock-based shared
mobility devices:

12. Within landscape, planting or gardening beds:

14. Within any other zone/place where the city prohibits parking.

C. An e-scooter may be parked on blocks without sidewalks only if the paved shoulder is at least
five feet wide, the e-scooter is not parked adjacent to a red-painted curb, and the e-scooter does
not impede pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
11.34.050 Enforcement.

same fine as a bicycle violation under the State of Utah Uniform Fine Schedule, as amended.

B. E-scooters placed or otherwise left in violation of the requirements of Section 11.34.040 may
be relocated or impounded at the owner’s expense with the owner assessed a relocation and storage
fee as specified in Chapter 11.40. 7
