COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 409
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 11.20.050 OF THE COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS CODE CONCERNING PROHIBITED PARKING OF VEHICLES

WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council’”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City’”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”) for the City; and

WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 6 February 2024 to consider, among
other things, amending Section 11.20.050 (“Section 11.20.050”) of the Code prohibiting parking
of vehicles in certain areas; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to so amend Section 11.20.050
as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amended Section 11.20.050. The Council hereby amends
Section 11.20.050 of the Code as shown on the attached exhibit, which shows any deletions to
Section 11.20.050 struck+threugh and any additions to Section 11.20.050 underlined.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance No. 409 (this
“Ordinance”), whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed
and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. A\\ ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 409, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 6" day of February 2024.

ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
7 ¥ . pe eR
By. Nard ET lM RM LAK@ AE
Paula Melgar, Recorde el x Gi; 4 ichael T. Weichers, Mayor
“EX WConrol ss :
Michael T. Weichers Yea A Nay a
Matt Holton YeaXi Nay __
Suzanne Hyland Yea Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea al} —
Ellen Birrell Yea ~ Nay __
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 6" day of February 2024.
POSTED this” day of February 2024.

EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 409
11.20.050 Parking prohibited in specified areas.
| A. No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary to avoid
conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions of a law enforcement officer
or traffic control device, in any one of the following places:
1A. Ona sidewalk area;
2B. In front of or within five feet of a private driveway;
3€. Within 20 feet of an intersection;
4D. Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant, whether on public or private property or within a
fire lane as designated and marked, whether on public or private property;
5E. Onacrosswalk;
6F. Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
7G. Within 30 feet of any flashing beacon or traffic control device located at the side of
a roadway;
| 8H. In front of or within 20 feet on either side of the entrance or exit of any theater, fire
station or place of public assemblage;
| OF. Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
105. Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when stopping, standing
or parking would obstruct or be hazardous to traffic;
| 11K. Within any alley, except for the necessary and expeditious loading and unloading
of merchandise; provided, that in no event shall the driveway or entrance to any abutting property
be blocked or free movement of traffic through the alley be interfered with;
| 13. Upon any bridge or other elevated structure on an-a street or within a street tunnel
or underpass;
13M. Upon that side of any street contiguous to any school property during school hours;
14N. At any place where official signs or traffic controls placed by the traffic engineer
prohibit stopping, standing or parking;-or
150. Within five feet 4:4rent-of a public or private mailbox: or
16. _ Outside designated parking stalls clearly marked on public property: provided,
however, that such limitation shall not apply to unmarked parking areas otherwise legally existing
along public roadways.
B. The fine for violation of this section to be provided to the courts for imposition on
violators shall be $100.
