COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 368
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND CODIFYING CHAPTER 19.75 (“ACCESSORY
DWELLING UNITS”) OF THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 et seg., as amended (the “Acr”), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission’s recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and
WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the City; and
WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the legislative body (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for
the City and codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City’s code of ordinances (the “Code’’);
and
WHEREAS, thereafter, the City’s planning commission (the “Planning Commission”)
proposed amending the Code (the “Amendment”) by enacting new Chapter 19.75 (“Accessory
Dwelling Units”) (“Chapter 19.75”); and
WHEREAS, on 21 July 2021, a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission
where citizens were given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the
proposed Amendment; and
WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and
WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended the
Amendment to the Council for adoption; and
WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with Chapter 19.75, a copy of which
is annexed as an exhibit to this ordinance, and is authorized to formulated revisions to Chapter
19.75 pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-502(2); and
WHEREAS, on 21 September 2021, the Council met in regular meeting to consider,
among other things, amending Title 19 of the Code to enact Chapter 19.75, as and if revised; and
WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing, and other relevant input, the Council has determined
that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to adopt and
enact Chapter 19.75 as proposed;

| NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

| Section 1. Adoption of Chapter 19.75. The Council hereby approves and adopts
Chapter 19.75 in the form of the attached exhibit, and hereby codifies the same as Chapter 19.75
of the Code; provided, however, that the city attorney, with such assistance as he may require from
other city officers and staff, is authorized and directed without further Council action to make such
additional formatting and technical corrections to Chapter 19.75 as he may consider to be
appropriate in connection with inclusion of Chapter 19.75 in the Code.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance No. 368 (this
“Ordinance”), whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed
and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take immediate effect as soon as it
shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the
City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 21° day of September 2021.

ATTEST: COTTON 7 D HEIG fs fry CQORNCIL
B 5h TAK MeDye7y¥ TL By | =
Pata Melgar-Recore Michael J. Petersofs, Mayor
C ;
Lota“ a Wey
Rh ty Rec A) (har VOTING:
Ng
Pg waren US pu Michael J. Peterson Yea hes —
B, c \ Douglas Petersen Aiea “Nay ___
fs Ti J. Scott Bracken eYea VU Nay___
v ) # Tali C. Bruce Yea Nay_ ayoud)
AN Aes) Christine Watson Mikell Yea “Nay __
CORPOR SZ
PPS oostren in the Recorder’s office this 21% day of September 2021.
POSTED this _ day of September 2021.
2

Exhibit to Ordinance 368
Chapter 19.75

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

Sections:

19.75.010 Purpose.

19.75.020 Definitions.

19.75.030 Where permitted.

19.75.040 Approval process.

19.75.050 Development standards.

19.75.060 Affidavit.

19.75.070 Inspection.

19.75.080 Termination.

19.75.010 Purpose.

Accessory dwelling units (“4DUs”) in single-family residential zones are an important tool in
the overall housing goals and needs of the city, and allow for alternative and flexible housing
options in owner-occupied single-family residences. The purposes of the ADU standards of this
chapter are to:

A. Preserve and enhance life safety standards required for residential occupancy through the
creation of a regulatory process for ADUs;

B. Provide housing options for individuals and families in all stages of life and/or with
moderate income who might otherwise have difficulty finding adequate housing within the city;

C. Provide opportunities to offset rising housing costs and promote reinvestment in existing
single-family residential zones;

D. Preserve the character of single-family neighborhoods through adequate standards
governing ADUs; and

E. Comply with UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-530, which designates internal ADUs as permitted
uses in all single-family residential zones and imposes limitations on the extent that municipalities
may regulate ADUs.

19.75.020 Definitions.

“Accessory dwelling unit” or “ADU” means a permanent, residential dwelling unit meant for
one additional single family located in a separate dwelling unit on the same lot as a single-family
dwelling unit, either within the same building as the single-family dwelling unit or in a detached
accessory building. A mobile home (as defined in UTAH CODE ANN. 57-16-3, as amended) or other
portable structure does not qualify as an ADU, nor may an ADU be located within a mobile home
or other portable structure.

“Detached ADU” means an ADU located in an accessory building on the property and not
attached to or within the principal dwelling unit.

“Dwelling unit” means a portion of a building designated as the residence of one family or
individual with suitable approved provisions for eating, sleeping, cooking, and sanitation.

“Flag lot” means a lot not fronting on or abutting a public roadway and where access to the
public roadway is limited to a narrow private right-of-way.

3

“Internal ADU” means an ADU created (a) within a primary dwelling unit; (b) within the
footprint of the primary dwelling unit at the time the internal ADU is created; and (c) for the
purpose of offering a long-term rental of 30 consecutive days or longer.

“Owner occupancy” means that a property’s owner of record makes such owner’s legal
residence at the site for at least 200 days per calendar year, as evidenced by voter registration,
vehicle registration, driver’s license, county assessor records or similar means.

“Primary dwelling” means a single-family dwelling that (a) is detached; and (b) is occupied
as the primary residence of the owner of record.

“Short-term rental” means the rental, letting of rooms or sub-leasing/renting of any structure,
dwelling or portion thereof for occupancy, dwelling, lodging or sleeping purposes for fewer than
30 consecutive days in duration.

19.75.030 Where permitted.

A. Internal ADUs are permitted in primary dwellings under owner occupancy on lots
containing more than 6,000 square feet located in the city’s R-1 (single-family), RR-1 (rural
residential), and F-1 (foothill residential) zones, subject to the approval process detailed in this
chapter. Internal ADUs are prohibited on any lot containing 6,000 or fewer square feet, or on lots
where the primary dwelling is served by a failing septic tank. Internal ADUs in eligible areas shall
be allowed as permitted uses.

B. Detached ADUs may be allowed as conditional uses in the city’s R-1 (single-family), RR-
1 (rural residential), and F-1 (foothill residential) zones as provided in this chapter.

19.75.040 Approval process.

The approval process for ADUs in the city is as follows:

A. Aninternal ADU may be allowed as a permitted use upon completion and filing of an ADU
application form; payment of all applicable fees; completion of a satisfactory property inspection;
the city’s receipt of the completed, signed affidavit required by this chapter; issuance of any
necessary building permits; and compliance with all other applicable requirements of this chapter.
Permits for internal, compliant ADUs may be renewed annually upon a satisfactory property
inspection and payment of an administrative renewal fee. A portion of a principal dwelling unit
with the characteristics of a separate dwelling unit but not occupied by a second family is exempt
from obtaining an ADU permit and from paying the yearly renewal fee upon completion and
recordation of an exemption form provided by the city. Internal ADUs shall comply with all other
applicable building permit, zoning code, fire code and building code requirements.

B. A detached ADU may be allowed as a conditional use upon completion and filing of an
ADU application form; payment of all applicable fees; completion of a satisfactory property
inspection; the city’s receipt of the completed, signed affidavit required by this chapter; issuance
of any necessary building permits; compliance with all other applicable requirements of this
chapter and any additional requirements deemed necessary by the planning commission (and
approval by the planning commission following a public hearing). Permits for detached ADUs
may be renewed annually upon a satisfactory property inspection and payment of a renewal fee. A
detached structure with the characteristics of a separate dwelling unit but not occupied by a second
family is exempt from obtaining an ADU permit and from paying the yearly renewal fee upon
completion and recordation of an exemption form provided by the city. Detached ADU units shall
comply with all other applicable building permit, zoning code, fire code and building code
requirements.

4

19.75.050 Development standards.

A. The property’s record owner (including titleholders and contract purchasers) must occupy
either the primary dwelling unit or the approved ADU as such owner’s permanent residence and
at no time receive rent for the owner-occupied unit. An application for an ADU permit shall include
evidence of owner occupancy in the form of the affidavit required by Section 19.77.060 and such
other verification(s) as the city reasonably may require.

B. ADUs shall not be used as short-term rentals.

C. Only one ADU may be created per lot or property.

D. The design and size of the ADU shall conform to all current applicable standards in the
building, plumbing, electrical, mechanical, fire, health, and any other applicable codes. When a
new internal ADU is proposed in an existing home, the entire internal ADU shall be brought up to
all minimum standards, as inspected and approved by city staff.

E. The installation of separate utility meters for an ADU is prohibited.

F. Eachinternal ADU shall require one off-street parking space in addition to required parking
for the primary dwelling unit. In no case shall fewer than three total off-street parking stalls be
provided for any property with an internal ADU. The additional required parking space shall not
be located behind or in front one of the required parking spaces for the primary dwelling (i.c.,
tandem parking is prohibited).

G. Each detached ADU shall require two off-street parking spaces in addition to required
parking for the primary dwelling unit. Creation of additional off-street parking spaces, excluding
previously existing driveways, is prohibited in the front yard of the subject property. Additional
required parking spaces for detached ADUs shall not be located behind or in front of one of the
required parking spaces for the primary dwelling or the detached ADU (i.e., tandem parking is
prohibited).

H. Any parking spaces contained within a garage or carport shall be replaced if an internal
ADU is created within the garage or carport.

I. Each internal ADU shall be designed in a manner that does not change the appearance of
the primary dwelling as a single-family dwelling.

J. Aninternal ADU may not be created within a mobile home as defined in UTAH CODE ANN.
57-16-3, as amended.

K. Detached ADUs shall be required to install fencing and/or a landscaping buffer to mitigate
the impact of parking areas and ADU entrances from adjoining property owners. Fencing shall be
a solid visual barrier and shall comply with applicable fencing requirements. Landscaping shall be
designed to obstruct visual impact from adjoining properties. In considering detached ADUs, the
planning commission may require additional buffering requirements if it finds that such
requirements will mitigate a perceived negative impact created by the ADU.

L. Detached ADUs shall be subject to the following additional development standards:

1. Any detached ADU shall be a permanent structure. Trailers, mobile homes, and other
portable structures shall not be permitted as detached ADUs. The city’s building official shall
make the determination of whether or not a structure is permanent.

2. Any detached ADU shall be subject to all primary structure setback standards for the zone
in which it is located;

3. Any detached ADU shall meet all accessory building standards for height, lot coverage,
rear-yard coverage, size, and any other applicable standards for the zone in which it is located;

4. Any detached ADU on a flag lot shall meet primary structure flag lot setback standards for
the zone in which it is located; and

5

5. Conversion of existing accessory buildings to detached ADUs is only permitted if the
structure meets or is modified to meet all current city standards and all applicable provisions of
this chapter.

19.75.060 Affidavit.

All applications for ADU permits shall include a notarized affidavit, signed by the record
owner of the property, that includes a description of the primary dwelling unit; a statement that the
primary dwelling unit contains an internal accessory dwelling unit or that the property contains a
detached ADU, as applicable; and a statement that the ADU may only be used in accordance with
the city’s land use regulations. Change in ownership of the primary dwelling shall not require any
additional public hearing, but shall require an updated ADU permit, site inspection (if applicable),
and signed affidavit.

19.75.070 Inspection.

A. Prior to approval of an ADU permit, all required building permits shall be completed by the
applicant and inspected by the city’s building inspector to verify compliance with all applicable
city standards.

B. Ifno additional work is proposed or required to ready an ADU for occupancy, the applicant
shall submit a minimum-fee building permit application, accompanied by an inspection by the
city’s building inspector, to ensure compliance with all applicable standards.

19.75.080 Termination.

If the primary dwelling’s record owner changes and is not accompanied by a new ADU
application, or if the primary dwelling’s record owner is no longer permanently residing in the
primary dwelling, then the ADU shall be immediately vacated and shall no longer be used as an
ADU. The city may revoke, or may choose to deny license renewal, to any property with
unresolved violations of this code arising from or related to operation of an ADU. The city may
also hold a lien against a property that contains an ADU that violated this chapter pursuant to the
procedures detailed in UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-530(5), as amended.

6
