|
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS |
ORDINANCE No. 412 |
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLES 2, 3, 12 AND 19 OF |
THE COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
(APRIL 2024 CODE MAINTENANCE)
WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 et seg., as amended (the “Act”), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission’s recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and
WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the City; and
WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the legislative body (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for
the City and codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City’s code of ordinances (the “Code”);
and.
WHEREAS, thereafter, the City’s planning commission (the “Planning Commission”)
formulated proposed amendments (the “4mendments”) to Titles 2, 3, 12 and 19 of the Code to
clarify ambiguous definitions and procedures and rectify conflicting provisions in the Code as part
of general maintenance of the Code; and
WHEREAS, because certain of the Amendments affect Title 19, and to provide an
opportunity for public input concerning all the proposed Amendments, a public hearing was held
before the Planning Commission where citizens were given the opportunity to provide written or
oral comment concerning the proposed Amendments; and
WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and
WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended the
Amendments to the Council for adoption; and
WHEREAS, the Council subsequently took additional public comment concerning the
Amendments; and
WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with the Amendments, a copy of
which is annexed as an exhibit to this ordinance, including any amendments proposed by the
Council to the form of the Amendments affecting Title 19 that were recommended for adoption
by the Planning Commission, as authorized by UTAH CoDE ANN. 10-9a-502(2); and

WHEREAS, on 2 April 2024 the Council met in regular meeting to consider, among other
things, amending the Code to enact the Amendments, including any such revisions; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings, and other relevant input,
the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City to adopt and enact the Amendments as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption _of Amendments. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendments in the form of the attached exhibit, wherein deletions to the current affected
ordinances are struckthrough or otherwise shown as deletions and additions to the current affected
ordinances are underlined or otherwise shown as additions.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 412, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 2" day of April 2024.

ATTEST: COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
Paula Melgar-Recorde eS <7 Michael T: Weichers, Mayor
A % AS S
2

VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea Da Nay
Matt Holton Yea ¥_Nay___
Suzanne Hyland Yea \y Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea Y Nay_
Ellen Birrell Yea \ Nay __
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 2" day of April 2024.
POSTED this Atay of April 2024.
3
