COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 344
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 19.77.030 OF THE
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
REGARDING OUTDOOR LIGHTING

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 ef seg., as amended (the “Ac?’”), provides that each municipality may enact a land
use ordinance and a zoning map establishing regulations for land use and development; and

WHEREAS, pursuant to the Act, the municipality’s planning commission shall prepare
and recommend to the municipality’s legislative body, following a public hearing, a proposed land
use ordinance and a zoning map, or amendments thereto, that represents the planning
commission’s recommendations for zoning the area within the municipality; and

WHEREAS, the Act also provides certain procedures for the municipality’s legislative
body to adopt or amend the land use ordinance and zoning map for the City; and

WHEREAS, on 14 July 2005, the legislative body (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) enacted its Ordinance No. 25 adopting a land use ordinance for
the City and codifying such ordinance as Title 19 of the City’s code of ordinances (the “Code”);
and

WHEREAS, thereafter, the City’s planning commission (the “Planning Commission”)
formulated proposed amendments (the “Amendments”) to Section 19.77.030 of the Code
concerning outdoor lighting requirements in the City; and

WHEREAS, a public hearing was held before the Planning Commission where citizens
were given the opportunity to provide written or oral comment concerning the proposed
Amendments; and

WHEREAS, such public hearing before the Planning Commission was preceded by all
required legal notices; and

WHEREAS, following the public hearing, the Planning Commission recommended the
Amendments to the Council for adoption; and

WHEREAS, the Council subsequently took additional public comment concerning the
Amendments; and

WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed and is familiar with the Amendments, a copy of
which is annexed as an exhibit to this ordinance, including any amendments proposed by the
Council to the form of the Amendments recommended for adoption by the Planning Commission,
as authorized by UTAH CODE ANN. 10-9a-502(2); and

WHEREAS, on 6 October 2020, the Council met in regular meeting to consider, among
other things, amending the Code to enact the Amendments, including any such revisions; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration of the recommendations of the Planning
Commission, comments at the public hearing and other public meetings, and other relevant input,
the Council has determined that it is in the best interest of the health, safety and welfare of the
citizens of the City to adopt and enact the Amendments as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amendments. The Council hereby adopts and enacts the
Amendments in the form of the attached exhibit, wherein deletions to the current ordinance are
struek+through and additions to the current ordinance are underlined.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5, Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 344, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 6" day of October 2020.

é
; EST: p> MoOAg . COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
Paula Me ie r, Recorder \ £48, & cott Bracken, Mayor Pro Tempore
; YON
fi VOTING:
Michael J. Peterson Yea_—Nay—_ AbseaT
Douglas Peterson Yea Xj Nay __
J. Scott Bracken YeaX’ Nay
Tali C. Bruce Yea x Nay _
Christine Watson Mikell Yea = Nay
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 6" day of October 2020.
. oe
POSTED this 7 day of October 2020.
2

EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 344

19.77.030 — Applicability

A. Conformance required. Any new outdoor lighting in-a-single-family-zone shall be installed
in conformance with the provisions of this chapter. In any situation where there is a conflict with
federal or state regulations, and/or applicable sections of adopted building code, the more
restrictive provisions shall apply.

B. Modifications to existing structures or land uses. New additions to buildings, or areas of
expanded land use,-in-a-single-family-sone shall comply with the requirements of this chapter.

C. Routine maintenance. tn-singlefamily-cene:

1. Repairing any component of a light fixture, except the lamp, is permitted for all existing
outdoor lighting fixtures; and

2. Lamps shall be replaced in accordance with the provisions of this chapter; provided
however, if no lamp exists which complies with this chapter, then the fixture shall be replaced.

3
