COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 438
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 10.64.030 OF THE COTTONWOOD
HEIGHTS CODE CONCERNING DISCHARGING WEAPONS WITHIN CITY

WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”) for the City; and

WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 6 May 2025 to consider, among other
things, amending Section 10.64.030 (“Section 10.64.030") of the Code concerning discharging
weapons within City limits; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to so amend Section 10.64.030
as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amended Section 10.64.030. The Council hereby amends
Section 10.64.030 of the Code as shown on the attached exhibit, which shows any deletions to
Section 10.64.030 steuck+hrough and any additions to Section 10.64.030 underlined.

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance No. 438 (this
“Ordinance”), whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed
and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 438, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 6" day of May 2025.

ATTEST: nae KOTT ONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
By: = <b eo” ce: 75 =
Tiffany ; rder  “,\ | 5 Michael T. Weichers, Mayor
BS Aa
"VOTING: |
Michael T. Weichers Yea # Nay ___
Matt Holton Yea *% Nay___
Suzanne Hyland Yea > Nay ___
Shawn E. Newell Yea ~ Nay
Ellen Birrell Yea % Nay___
DEPOSITED in the Recorder’s office this 6" day of May 2025.
POSTED this hy day of May 2025.

EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE NO. 438
10.64.030 Discharging weapons e-prehibited-within city limits—Exceptions.

A. It is unlawful for any person to discharge or shoot within city limits any gun, pistol, air gun,
bow and arrow, crossbow or other firearm or weapon using projectileswithinthe-eiytmits-ofthe
ety, except:

1. 4In self-defense: or lawful defense of property:

2. -eriln the case of any peace officer, in the performance of their his-duty:

3. -eraAt a duly-licensed shooting gallery or range: or

4. In the case of target practice using an air gun, bow and arrow, or cross bow, after erection
in a safe, appropriate place of a proper breastwork or barrier for the protection of other persons
and their property.

B. Nothing in this section prohibits the use of play pistols, guns, bows and arrows, or similar
children’s toys.

C. A violation of this section is a Class B misdemeanor.
