COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 432
AN ORDINANCE ESTABLISHING TEMPORARY LAND USE
REGULATIONS FOR LIVE/WORK SPACES AND COMMENCING
PROCEEDINGS TO AMEND ORDINANCES

WHEREAS, the “Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act,” UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-101 et seg., as amended (the “Ac?’’), authorizes a municipal legislative body, without
prior consideration of or recommendation from the planning commission, to enact an ordinance
establishing a temporary land use regulation for any part or all of the area within the municipality
if, inter alia, the legislative body makes a finding of compelling, countervailing public interest;
and

WHEREAS, §10-9a-509(1) of the Act authorizes municipalities to give notice of the
commencement of proceedings to amend its land use ordinances; and

WHEREAS, the city council (the “Council’) of the city of Cottonwood Heights (the
“City”) recently became aware of the need to more fully address the nature, scope and other
attributes of “Live/work spaces” (“Live/work spaces”) under Title 19 of the City’s code of
ordinances (“Title 19°’); and

WHEREAS, there are significant health, safety, and welfare issues surrounding the
potential impact of Live/work spaces on the City’s neighborhoods; and

WHEREAS, on 18 February 2025 the Council held a duly-noticed public meeting to
discuss Live/work spaces and related issues and facts; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration and discussion, the Council finds (a) the proposed
temporary zoning regulation set forth below is necessary to protect the residents of the City’s
residential neighborhoods from undue adverse impacts of construction and use of Live/work spaces
on near-by properties; (b) such action will preserve the City’s ability to study the impacts of
Live/work spaces on residential neighborhoods; (c) such action will allow the City to ensure that
its standards for Live/work spaces are consistent with Utah state law and with best practices; (d)
all of the foregoing together constitute a compelling, countervailing public interest basis for
enacting the temporary zoning regulation set forth below; and (e) such enactment is essential to
further the health, safety, and general welfare of the citizens of the City;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Establishment of Temporary Zoning Regulations for Live-work spaces.
During the term of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”’) (a) Code §19.37.030(W), stating “Live/work
spaces”, shall be deemed omitted as a conditional use in the City’s NC (Neighborhood
Commercial) zone; and (b) application for, or consideration or approval of, any Live/work space(s)
in the City not already subject to a submitted and complete land use application under UTAH CODE
ANN. §10-9a-509 shall be prohibited.

Section 2. Duration. Unless sooner terminated by action of the Council, this Ordinance
shall remain in effect until the date that is 180 days after its effective date.

Section 3. Pending Ordinance. Pursuant to UTAH CODE ANN. §10-9a-509 proceedings
to amend Title 19 (concerning Live/work spaces) within 180 days after the effective date of this
Ordinance are hereby commenced.

Section 4. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this Ordinance, whether taken before or
after adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 5. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 6. Repealer. All ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 7. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 432, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s Recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 18" day of February 2025.

nbiha
ATTEST: we oon ey 9 TTONWOOD HE TS CITY COUNCIL
»> Ws a; x \
Tiffany Jailzen) Recorder: “3 en Michael T. Weichers, Mayor
EXO OL * ;

VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Yea uv Nay
Matt Holton Yea Nay ra
Suzanne Hyland Yea rm Nay____
Shawn E. Newell Yea WV. Nay _
Ellen Birrell Yea V Nay

DEPOSITED in an Recorder’s office this 18" day of February 2025.

POSTED this (Gay of February 2025.

2
