COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS
ORDINANCE NO. 454
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 8.13 (CHICKENS),
COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CODE OF ORDINANCES
WHEREAS, effective 14 January 2005, the city council (the “Council”) of the city of
Cottonwood Heights (the “City”) adopted a code of ordinances (the “Code”) for the City; and
WHEREAS, the Council met in regular session on 2 December 2025 to consider, among
other things, amending Chapter 8.13 (Chickens) (“Chapter 8.13”) of the Code to, inter alia, revise
the legal requirements for keeping chickens in the City; and

WHEREAS, after careful consideration, the Council has determined that it is in the best
interest of the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the City to so amend Chapter 8.13 of the
Code as proposed;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the city council of the city of Cottonwood
Heights as follows:

Section 1. Adoption of Amended Chapter 8.13. The Council hereby amends Chapter
8.13 of the Code as shown on the attached exhibit, which shows deletions to current Chapter 8.13
struckthreugh, and additions to current Chapter 8.13 underlined:

Section 2. Action of Officers. All actions of the officers, agents and employees of the
City that are in conformity with the purpose and intent of this ordinance (this “Ordinance”),
whether taken before or after the adoption hereof, are hereby ratified, confirmed and approved.

Section 3. Severability. It is hereby declared that all parts of this Ordinance are
severable, and if any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this Ordinance shall, for any reason,
be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of any such section,
paragraph, clause or provision shall not affect the remaining sections, paragraphs, clauses or
provisions of this Ordinance.

Section 4. Repealer. A\l ordinances or parts thereof in conflict with this Ordinance
are, to the extent of such conflict, hereby repealed.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance, assigned no. 454, shall take immediate
effect as soon as it shall be published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in
the office of the City’s recorder, or such later date as may be required by Utah statute.

PASSED AND APPROVED this 2" day of December 2025.

ATTEST: SZONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY COUNCIL
fy
<H (e=y)
Tiffany Ja 1) en, Re¢order eZ hg n E. Newell, Mayor Pro Tempore

VOTING:
Michael T. Weichers Absent
Matt Holton Yea\“ Nay __
Suzanne Hyland Yea 4 Nay
Shawn E. Newell Yea a Nay
Ellen Birrell YeaY Nay
DEPOSITED in vr Recorder’s office this 2" day of December 2025.
POSTED this Veiay of December 2025.
2

EXHIBIT TO ORDINANCE 454
$.13.010 Requirements For Keeping Chickens

A. It is unlawful for any person to keep within the city any chickens without first making
application for and obtaining a permit from the city to do so. The fee for such a permit
shall be as specified in the city’s consolidated fee schedule. Although chickens may kept
as provided in this chapter, they shall not be deemed as household or domestic pets.

B. It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any chicken in a manner contrary to the
provisions of this chapter. Any such violation shall be a class B misdemeanor.

C. Chickens may be kept on a non-nuisance basis for familial gain from the production and
consumption of eggs.

D. Up to six egg-laying hens and up to four chicks may be kept on a residential lot.

E. Roosters and crowing hens are prohibited.

F. Location.

1. Chickens may only be kept on a property containing a single-family detached
residence, a single family attached residence, or a two-family detached residence,
or on a contiguous, vacant property under common ownership with that residence,
provided al! other applicable standards are met.

2. All enclosures, pens and coops shall be located in the rear yard of the main
dwelling or in an interior side yard in full compliance with this chapter.

3. Enclosures, pens and coops shall not be located in a corner side yard unless the
side yard is completely fenced using site-obscuring fencing or vegetative
screening, so as to prevent sight of such areas from the street or neighboring
properties to the greatest degree possible.

4, All enclosures, pens and coops shal! be located at least 49-25 feet from all
dwellings (as the same may exist from time to time) on all adjoining properties
and at least three feet from the property line, provided that a portable wheeled
coop may encroach temporarily and from time to time on the three foot separation
from the property line. During the time a heating device is employed in the pen or
coop during cold weather, such pen or coop must be separated by at least ten feet
from any structure containing a habitable dwelling on the same property.

G. All pens and coops shall be maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and in compliance
with all applicable health regulations. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing
statement:

1. All droppings within the coop and the enclosure shall be cleaned out at least once
a week;

2. Coops must be thoroughly cleaned with a standard disinfectant at least once per
calendar quarter;

3

3. Coops and related structures must be kept free from standing water and odor-free;
and

4. Dead birds and unused eggs shall be removed within 24 hours or less and shall be
properly discarded.

5. All feed shall be stored in containers preventing intrusion by rodents and other
vermin.

H. Coop and enclosure.

1. A coop is required to keep chickens. The coop shall be constructed such that it
provides adequate shelter and space for chickens to roost with at least three square
feet per chicken. If the chickens are not allowed to roam outside the coop, the
coop shall have a minimum floor area of six square feet per chicken.

2. Ifa fenced enclosure for chickens is provided, the enclosure must consist of
sturdy '4” hardware cloth wire fencing buried at least two feet vertically into the
ground, with an additional two feet bent outwards, from the vertical element, to be
parallel to the ground and underground. The use of flimsy wire mesh, including
chicken wire, is not permitted in the construction of a domestic fowl coop, fence
or enclosure.

1. The city may enter upon the premises for the purpose of inspecting the fowl, the coop and
related improvements.
8.13.020 Chicken-Keeping Permit
A. Any person who desires to keep chickens as authorized by this chapter shall make
application to the division, on a city-approved form, for a chicken permit.
B. The application shal! include the following information:

1. The name, address and other contact information of the person desiring the
chicken keeping permit.

2. Written authorization from the property owner or authorized legal representative
permitting chickens to be kept on the property.

3. The location of chicken pens or coops, including a plat showing the parcel and
neighboring properties, property lines, and the locations of the coop, pen,
enclosure and nearby dwellings.

4. Basic plans and specification of the proposed coop, pen and enclosure, showing
size and dimensions.

5. The distance between the location of the proposed pen or coop and the nearest
dwelling on all adjoining lots.

6. A statement irrevocably granting unto the city permission to enter upon the
premises for the purpose of inspecting the fowl, pen, coop, enclosure and all
related improvements.

4

7. Any other information required by the city.

C. Upon receipt of the application, the city shall inspect the applicant’s premises to verify
compliance with this chapter. The permit shall be issued if the city determines that the
applicant can and will comply with all regulations pertaining to owning chickens.

D. The chicken keeping permit shall expire on June 30th, but may be renewable on a yearly
basis thereafter upon application to and approval by the city as provided in this chapter.

E. The rights under the permit transfer to a successor owner of the premises until the
following June 30th, whereupon the permit is subject to renewal as provided in this
section.

8.13.030 — Enforcement

A. The city may investigate any alleged violation of this chapter upon observation or receipt
of a complaint. A violation shall be considered “verified” when confirmed by city staff
through inspection or other credible evidence.

B. If a property receives three or more verified violations of any provision of this chapter
within any twelve-month period, the director may revoke the chicken-keeping permit for
that property following written notice to the permit holder.

C. Upon revocation, the permit holder shall remove all chickens from the property within 30
calendar days of the date of notice. A revoked permit shall remain invalid for the
remainder of the current city year (July 1 through June 30).

D. A permit holder aggrieved by the revocation of their permit may file a written petition with
the manager within 20 days after the director’s decision for review of said grievance. Upon
consideration of said grievance and upon good cause showing, the manager may uphold or
modify the revocation or reinstate the permit. A permittee aggrieved by a decision of the
manager may file suit in Third District Court within 30 days after the manager’s decision
for review of said grievance.

E. A revoked permit holder may reapply for a new permit after one full year has passed from
the date of revocation.

F. Nothing in this section shall preclude the city from pursuing additional enforcement
remedies as authorized under this code, including issuance of citations for individual
violations.

5
