ORDINANCE NO. 1488

AN ORDINANCE OF DRAPER CITY AMENDING THE TEXT OF THE LAND USE AND
DEVELOPMENT CODE (TITLE 9) AND THE LAND DEVELOPMENT CODE (TITLE 17)
OF THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE RELATING TO DEFINITIONS,
REGULATIONS, AND GENERAL STANDARDS IN CODE SECTIONS 9-3-040, 9-5-200,
9-27-200, 9-42-040, 17-1-040, 17-1-085, 17-3-030, 17-4-030, 17-5-030, 17-9-020,
17-9-050, 17-9-060, AND ENACTING A NEW SECTION 17-1-075: LAND USE
EXEMPTIONS FOR SINGLE FAMILY DWELLINGS.

WHEREAS, Utah State law grants to Draper City the authority to regulate uses of
property by enacting land use regulations, among other methods; and

WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the Draper City
Municipal Code to comply with changes in state law; and

WHEREAS, the Land Use and Development Code and the Land Development Code of
the Draper City Municipal Code (collectively the “Development Codes")have been established
to provide regulations concerning development activity within the City Boundaries; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City adopted the Development Codes to guide
development within the City Boundaries; and

WHEREAS, the City Council of Draper City finds good cause to revise the terms and
provisions of the Development Codes in response to changes in Utah State Code; and

WHEREAS, notice has been issued according to the requirements of the Utah Code
Annotated and Draper City Municipal Code for public hearings before the Planning
Commission and City Council to receive public input regarding the revision of the
Development Codes; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission and City Council have each held a public hearing
to receive public input regarding the revision of the Development Codes.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF
UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings regarding the proposed text amendments to the Development Codes: 1. The
proposed amendments are consistent with the goals, objectives and policies of the city's
general plan. 2. The proposed amendments further the specific purpose statements of the
Development Codes. 3. The proposed amendments are appropriate given the context of
the request and there is sufficient justification for a modification to the Development

Ordinance No. 1488 1 City Initiated State Law Changes TA
Text Amendment

Codes. 4. The potential effects of the proposed amendments have been evaluated and
determined to be beneficial to public health, safety, and welfare and represent an overall
community benefit. 5. The proposed text amendments implement best current,
professional practices of urban planning, design, and engineering practices and are
consistent with state law.

Section 2. Revision. Sections 9-3-040, 9-5-200, 9-27-200, 9-42-040, 17-1-040, 17-
1-085, 17-3-030, 17-4-030, 17-5-030, 17-9-020, 17-9-050, 17-9-060, of the Land Use and
Development Code and the Land Development Code of the Draper City Municipal Code are
hereby revised to read as set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto.

Section 3. Enactment. Section 17-1-075 of the Draper City Municipal Code is
hereby enacted as set forth in Exhibit A attached hereto.

Section 4. Correction of Editing Errors. The city attorney is authorized to correct
any punctuation, spelling, formatting, clerical, or de minimis errors in Exhibit A prior to
submitting the ordinance for publishing.

Section 5. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable.

Section 6. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the date of
final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON THE 4™
DAY OF MAY, 2021.

DRAPER CITY

Mayor Troy K. Walker

ATTEST:

Laura Oscarson, CMC, City Recorder

Ordinance No. 1488 2 City Initiated State Law Changes TA
Text Amendment

VOTE TAKEN: YES NO
Councilmember Green
Councilmember T. Lowery
Councilmember F. Lowry

Councilmember Roberts

RB AID

Councilmember Vawdrey

Mayor Walker

Ordinance No. 1488 3 City Initiated State Law Changes TA
Text Amendment

EXHIBIT A

9-3-040: DEFINITIONS:

CHARTER SCHOOLS: SS. RNR eS

A. An operating charter school;

B. Acharter school applicant that a charter school authorizer approves fasts
application approved by a chartering entity in accordance with Utah Code

Annotated title 53AG, chapter 4a5, part 53, the-Utah-Charter Schools
Authorization Act; aador

C. An entity whethat is working on behalf of a charter school or approved charter
applicant to develop or construct a charter school building.

DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT: A written agreement contract or an amendmenttoa

written agreement between the city and-a-developerersubdivider which specifies
the-standards-and conditions that will aovern one or more parties that regulates or

controls the use or development of a-preperty specific area of land. This definition
does not include a bond agreement or an improvement completion assurance.

FAMILY: Any-ofthe following whe-occupy adwelting unit

A—One (1) or more persons living alenetogether as a single housekeeping unit;.


dcslars kom etscumesmn- npn Ra sub Wa NISi tract of ‘aid, samen of

any label, that is created by and shown on a final subdivision plat that has been
recorded in the office of the county recorder.

LOT LINE ADJUSTMENT: The relocation of a lot line boundary between two-2)}
adjoining lots withthe consent ofthe owners of record and which-does not create a
newtot or between a lot and adjoining parcels in accordance with Title 17, whether
or not the lots are located in the same subdivision, and with the consent of the
owners of record. This definition does not include new boundary lines that would
create an additional lot, constitute a subdivision, or a boundary line adjustment
made by the Utah Department of Transportation.

LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT: Structural or natural engineered systems located
close to the source of storm water that use or mimic natural processes to

encourage infiltration, evapotranspiration, or reuse of the storm water.

HAGEL ae aa memes siti i i a: ie

not a lot.

PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENT: A recorded agreement between owners of
adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary, either by deed or by a boundary
line agreement in accordance with Utah Code Annotated section 10-9a-524, as
amended, if no additional parcel is created and none of the property identified in
the agreement is a lot or if the adjustment is to the boundaries of a single person's
parcels. This definition does not mean an adjustment that creates an additional
parcel or parcels, constitutes a subdivision, or a boundary line adjustment made by

the Utah Department of Transportation.


sesresl alanl-ecegpiene- Hhadacsisentas n instrument subdividing onsite into lots
as depicted on a map or other graphical representation of lands that a licensed

professional land surveyor makes and prepares in accordance with applicable
provisions of state law.

STRUCTURE, NONCONFORMING: A:structure that:

A. Legally existed before-it's the structure's current zoning designation; and

B. Because of subsequent-zening land use ordinance changes, does not conform
with the setback, height restrictions, or other applicable-+requirements
regulations of this title.

SUBDIVISION: Any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to be divided into
two (2) or more lots-parcels-sites-units_plets, or other division of land for the
purpose, whether immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either
on the installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.

A. "Subdivision" includes:

A1. The division or development of land whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise and testacy, ‘ease; map, plat, or other recorded
instrument,_regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of
a parcel or lot; and

82. Divisions of land for all residential and nonresidential uses, including land
used or to be used for commercial, agricultural, and industrial purposes.

B. "Subdivision" does not include:

notresultin-aviclation-of applicable requirements ofthis tite-orA bona
fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purposed of joining

one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of
unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel


not the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an
applicable land use ordinance;

line agreement recorded with the county recorder’s office between

owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in accordance
with Utah Code Annotated, section 10-9a-524, if no new parcel is created;

3. _Arecorded document, executed by the owner of record, revising the legal
descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal description encompassing
all such parcels;

4. _Arecorded document, executed by the owner of record joining a lot to a
parcel;

5. Aboundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with Utah
Code Annotated sections 10-9a-524 and 10-9a-608 if no new dwelling lot
or housing unit will result from the adjustment and the adjustment does
not violate any applicable land use ordinance;

6. A bona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed or
other instrument states in writing that the division is in anticipation of
future land use approvals on the parcel or parcels, does not confer any
land use approvals, and has not been approved by the city:

7. Aparcel boundary adjustment:

8. Alot line adjustment;

9. Aroad, street, or highway dedication plat;

11. Any other division of land authorized by law.

SUBSTANTIAL EVIDENCE: Evidence that is beyond a scintilla and a reasonable mind
would accept as adequate to support a conclusion.


USE, CONDITIONAL: A raaialand use that, because of itsthe unique characteristics
or potential impact of the land use on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or
adjacent land uses, may not be compatible in some areas or may be compatible
only if certain conditions are required that mitigate or eliminate the detrimental
impacts.

9-5-200: DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS:

agreementLimitations:

1. Adevelopment agreement under this section may not:

a. Limit the City's authority in the future to:

i. Enact a land use regulation; or

ii. Take any action allowed under Utah Code Annotated Section 10-8-
84, as amended;

b. Require the City to change the zoning designation of an area of land
within the City in the future; or

c. Contain aterm that conflicts with, or is different from, a standard set
forth in an existing land use regulation that governs the area subject

to the development agreement, unless the city council approves the

development agreement in accordance with the same procedures for


enacting a land use regulation under Section 10-9a-502, including a
review and recommendation from the planning commission and a

public hearing.

2. The City may not require a development agreement as the only option for
developing land within the City.

3. _Tothe extent that a development agreement does not specifically address
a matter or concern related to land use or development, the matter or

concern is governed by;
a. Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-530, as amended; and

b. Applicable land use regulations of this Title.

E. Expiration: A development agreement shall be signed and notarized by all
parties, and recorded in the relevant county recorder's office within one (1)
year from the date of City Council approval or it will be void. Prior to the
expiration of the one-year period, an applicant may submit a written request
with the community development department, for an extension of up to six (6)
months. Approval of this extension may only be granted by the City Council
provided the applicant can meet the requirements for extension under
section 9-5-030 and demonstrate substantial action toward execution of the

agreement.

9-27-200: GATING:

C. Subdivisions: Subdivisions, whether commercial or residential, may be
permitted to include gates across private streets when approved as a
conditional use in accordance with the provisions set forth in section 9-5-

080 of this title regarding conditional use permits, and when the applicant can
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the planning commission that:

1. The gates will not block or impede vehicular or pedestrian transportation
on any public street inside or outside of the subdivision. Gates shall not
be permitted across any public street;

2. Pedestrian access into the subdivision will not be impeded;

3. Noconstructed or city desired trail or public transportation feature will be
affected by the installation of gates;

4. The implementation of gates for the development does not adversely
affect or inhibit the connectivity of the city's public transportation system;

5. The gating of the development will not impose added pressure upon any
right of way identified within the Draper City master transportation plan
beyond that which would be reasonably anticipated if the development
was not gated.

6. Ahomeowners' association adequately established to address the fiscal
needs of operation and maintenance of the development's gates and
streets, is or will be formed that will be responsible for any liability,
maintenance, repairs, and all other responsibility associated with the
implementation of the gates for the duration of time that the gates are
present. Should the homeowners' association be found, at any point in
time, to be unable, unwilling, or derelict in the operation and/or
maintenance of the streets or gates of the development, the gates shall
be removed or left in an open position, as determined by the planning
commission through the revocation of any and all conditional use
permit(s) pertaining to the gates; and

7. All gate development standards, as outlined in subsection D or E, and F of
this section, can and will be met.

Fire Apparatus Access Road Gate Standards: In addition to the applicable

standards of subsection D or E above, gates securing a fire apparatus access
road shall also comply with all of the following criteria:

1. Where a single gate is provided, the gate width shall be not less than
twenty (20) feet. Where a fire apparatus road consists of a divided

roadway, the gate width shall be not less than twelve (12) feet.
2. Gates shall be of the swinging or sliding type.

3. Construction of gates shall be of materials that allow manual operation by
one person.


4. Gate components shall be maintained in an operative condition at all
times and replaced or repaired when defective.

5. Electric gates shall be equipped with a means of opening the gate by fire

department personnel for emergency access. Emergency opening devices
must be approved by the fire marshal.

-

Methods of locking shall be submitted for approval by the fire marshal.

7. Electric gate operators, where provided, shall be listed in accordance with
Underwriters Laboratories (UL) standard 325.

8. Gates intended for automatic operation shall be designed, constructed
and installed to comply with the requirements of American Society for

Testing and Materials (ASTM) specification F2200.

9-42-040: STANDARDS:

B. Hours of Operation: Permitted hours of operation for medical cannabis
pharmacies shall be 97:00 am to 910:00 pm.

17-1-040: DEFINITIONS:

ai as eens sana of Sia, ememinee eae vata that is

created by and shown on a final subdivision plat that has been recorded in the
office of the county recorder.

SUBDIVISION: Defined-pe i
amended. The same as caapien in Section 9-3-040 of this sade,


WATER CONVEYANCE FACILITY: A ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other watercourse
used to convey water cused for irrigation or storm water drainag 3e and an telated

does not soahvielies a ditch, canal, flume, pipeline, or other watercourse used to

convey water used for culinary or industrial water, or any federal water project
facility :

enacted within 10y years s after the day on itich the: subdivision. splat: is
recorded.

in the subdivision must meet the then current Tr use a a pates ai

ordinances.

17-1-085: PUBLIC NOTIFICATION:

E. Cana! Water Conveyance Facility Owner Notice: If a canats-centerine water

conveyance facility is located entirely or partially within one-hundred feet
(100') of a subdivision andthe-centertineis available as-as determined using
information made available to the city as prescribed in Utah Code Annotated
10-9a-603, as amended, the city shall provide notice of the application to the
canal water conveyance facility owner erasseciation-canaltoperater within
twenty (20) days of receiving the complete application receipt. The city shall
provide the facility owner atwenty (20)- days to comment on the application
period prior to making a decision on the application. A facility owner's failure
to provide comments to the city shall not affect or impair the city’s authority to
approve the subdivision plat. (Ord. 1075, 11-19-2013; amd. Ord. 1408, 10-15-
2019; Ord. 1467, 11-17-2020)

17-3-030: PRELIMINARY PLAT SUBMITTAL:

B. Preliminary Plat: A preliminary plat drawn at a scale not smaller than one
hundred feet (100') to the inch and prepared, stamped and signed by a
professional engineer licensed by the state of Utah, showing:

1. All facilities within one hundred feet (100') of the subdivision boundaries;
2. Anorth arrow;

3. The subdivision name;

4

The layout and names and widths of existing and future road rights of
way;

wn

A tie to a permanent survey monument at a section corner;
6. The boundary lines of the subdivision with bearings and distances;

7. The layout and dimensions of proposed lots with lot areas in square feet;

8. The location, dimensions and labeling of all other spaces including open
spaces, parks, trails, and public spaces;

9. The location of manmade features including bridges, railroad tracks, and
buildings;

10. Fopographyattwo-foot2'Hntervals-All recorded easements and existing
rights-of-way located within the plat for:

a. Anunderground facility;

b. Awater conveyance facility: or

c. Any other utility facility; and

d. Any water conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within the

plat that is not recorded and of which the owner of the land has
actual or constructive knowledge, including from information made
available to the owner of the land in the state engineer's inventory of
canals or from a surveyor in accordance with Utah Code Annotated
10-9a-603(6)(c), as amended; and

11. Ownership of all adjoining tracts of land.

17-4-030: FINAL PLAT; PREPARATION AND REQUIRED INFORMATION:

R. The final plat shall show all recorded easements and existing rights-of-way
located within the plat for:

1.__An underground facility;

2. _Awater conveyance facility:

3. Any other utility facility; and

4. Any water conveyance facility located, entirely or partially, within the plat
that is not recorded and of which the owner of the land has actual or
constructive knowledge, including from information made available to the


owner of the land in the state engineer's inventory of canals or from a
surveyor in accordance with Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-603(6)(c), as
amended.

17-5-030: STREETS:

G. Subdivision Access And Dead End Streets: Dead end streets or subdivisions
with one access point shall serve no more than thirty (30) single-family units,
two-family units, and townhouse units, or up to one hundred (100) multi-family
units, not including townhouse dwellings. Deviations from the limitations to
the number of single-family and two-family units may be permitted under the
provisions of 17-5-030(H)(15) below. The provision of a stub road which will
eliminate the dead end in the future shall not permit additional units.
Additional dwelling units may be served by a dead end street at such time as
its dead end nature is eliminated. On such temporary dead end streets, a
temporary turnaround area and recordable easement shall be provided at the
end of the dead end street and shall remain and be available for public use so
long as the dead end exists. Improvements shall be installed in temporary
turnaround areas subject to engineering standards and the International Fire
Code. Access points and dead end streets shall comply with all applicable
codes. (Ord. 1009, 9-4-2012; amd. Ord. 1332, 7-10-2018; Ord. 1454, 11-10-
2020)

ie

. Fire Apparatus Access Roads: Fire apparatus access is essential to successful
fire-fighting and rescue operations. Fire department vehicles vary widely in size
and operational needs and must be able to maneuver into position to properly
undertake their fire-fighting activities. The needs of the city will therefore vary
with the equipment used include those from mutual-aid companies that may
respond from outside the city. Access roads must be designed to provide the
fire department with the required access to all structures on a site.


~

|

In

I>

Where a fire hydrant is located on a fire apparatus access road, the
minimum road width shall be twenty-six (26) feet, exclusive of shoulders.

Fire apparatus access roads shall not exceed ten (10) percent in grade,
except as specifically modified elsewhere in this title, or as approved by
the fire marshal.

Dead end fire apparatus access roads shall meet the following minimum
paved widths and include turnarounds according to the following:

a.
feet and five-hundred. (500) aT in — a minimum — width of
twenty (20) feet and a minimum one-hundred twenty (120) foot
hammerhead, sixty (60) foot “Y”, or ninety-six (96) foot diameter cul-
= re required. See Figure 17-5-1.
‘hammerhesel sixty (60) foot eS ort ninety- -Six (96) foot diameter cul-
de-sac are required. See Figure 17-5-1.
di.

For fire apparatus access roads over seven- -hundred fifty (750) feet in


90

\o

each structure.

ia Ballina or facilities s having a gross buildin area ofr more than 62,000

the immediate vicinity vot the bullding or r portion thereof.


One or more of the required access routes meeting this condition
a — not —- — 5) pa ane not, ae nari

and approved fire sopatatue access reads, except as provided i in :
subsection 17-5-030(H)(15)(a) or (b) below.

-

(30) dwelling units ona single public or private fire apparatus access
road and all dwelling units are equipped throughout with an
approved automatic fire sprinkler system in accordance with
international fire code section 903.3.1.1, 903.3.1.2 or 903.3.1.3,
access from two directions shall not be required.


DEAD-END FIRE APPARATUS ACCESS ROAD TURNAROUNDS*

* 70'-0" d x

70'-0"

96'-0"

‘-26'-0"-#
120' Hammerhead

60'-0 4+ rn

\ 28' Turn

radius

(Typical) 20'-0"
‘-

1 120°-0"
28' Turn
radius

28' Turn (Typical)

radius
(Typical)
oom
20'-0" + 20'-0"
120' Hammerhead 60"-"Y"
Alternative

28" Turn radius

/_ (Typical)

28' Turn radius
(Typical)

™

> oa
26.0" 26'-0" 80'-0
4 is

96' Diameter
Cul-de-sac
(Commercial)

80' Diameter
Cul-de-sac
(Residential)

* Diagrams represent typical layout and dimensions of required pavement and are not inclusive of any required curb and

gutter, sidewalks, park strips or right of way widths.


Figure 17-5-2

(— ) (7 \ \ 7
NO NO NO
PARKING PARKING PARKING
FIRE LANE FIRE LANE FIRE LANE || °°"
D NS D a"

NS NN
ke 12in , i F

12in ,| 12in ,

In instances where fire marshal has discretion to allow a deviation from the
standards for fire apparatus access roads in 17-5-030(H) or the gating
requirements of fire apparatus access roads in 9-27-200(F), the fire marshal
may authorize a deviation upon finding all of the following:

The deviation complies with the public safety objectives of the city;

2. The proposed deviation will not negatively impact traffic safety;

3. The access width of the roadway is sufficient to provide necessary
emergency vehicle access to the property;

4. The type of road surfacing will not negatively impact the accessibility to the
property by fire and emergency vehicles; and

5. The deviation in design will not inhibit the maneuverability or operation of

anticipated emergency response apparatus or fire department vehicles of

Draper City or those of mutual-aid organizations from neighboring
communities or agencies.


17-9-020: AMENDMENT PROCEDURE:

A.

Planning Commission Recommendation: Upon receipt of a petition to vacate,
alter, or amend a subdivision plat, the matter shall be referred to the Planning
Commission for consideration.

Public Hearing: Except as otherwise provided in subsection C of this section,
the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed plat
amendment within forty five (45) days of receipt of the petition. Notice of the
public hearing shall be given as provided in section 17-9-030 of this Code.

Waiver Of Public Hearing: Where the plat amendment process is initiated by
petition, the Planning Commission, in its discretion, may waive the
requirement of a public hearing if:

1. The proposed plat change does not include the vacation, alteration or
amendment of a public street;

2. No owner within the plat notifies the City of their objection, in writing,
within ten (10) days of the mailed notice provided under section 17-9-
030 of this chapter; and

3. All owners within the plat have signed the revised plat consenting to the
proposed amendment.

Vacating A Public Street, Right-Of-Way Or Easement: A petition under this
section that proposes to vacate some or all of a public street, right-of-way or
easement shall comply with State Code.

Public Hearing Not Required: Not withstanding sections B and C in this section,

platatathe public hearing requirements do not apply and the planning
commission may consider an owners petition for a subdivision amendment at
a public meeting, subject to notice being given to adjacentadjoining property
owners per section 17-9-030 of this code, if the petition seeks to:

1. Join two or more of the petitioner fee owner's contiguous lots as outlined
in 17-9-060 of this chapter;

2. Subdivide one or more of the petitioning fee owner's lots, if the
subdivision will not result in a violation of a land use ordinance or a
development condition;

3. Adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an adjoining

parcels-if the fee owners of each of the adjoining /ots-or parcelsproperties

join in the petition, regardless of whether the-+ots-orparcelsproperties are
located in the same subdivision, as outlined in 17-9-060 of this chapter;

4. Ona lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot
restriction imposed by ordinance; or

5. Alter the plat in a manner that does not change the existing boundaries or
other attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not:

a. Owned by the petitioner; or
b. Designated as a common area.

F. The city may not approve a petition for a subdivision amendment unless the
amendment identifies and preserves any easements owned by a culinary
water authority or sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within
the subdivision.

17-9-050: AMENDED PLAT REQUIREMENTS:

Prior to the land use authority's approval of a petition or proposal to amend a
subdivision plat, the petitioner or sponsor shall deliver to the City an amended plat
map and supporting information in compliance with the requirements of

section 17-4-030 of this title. Fhe amended polatman-shall be accompanied by the

and/or Utah-County Recorder Any plat amendment that creates any property to be
dedicated or otherwise given to the City for right-of-way or other public use shall
also comply with the terms of section 17-4-100 of this title regarding the payment
of Property Tax.

17-9-060: LOTLINE ADJUSTMENTS JOINING LOTS,
PARCEL BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS, AND BOUNDARY LINE AGREEMENTSPROPERTY
BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS:


a petitioner fee owner's contiguous lot(s) with a petitioner fee owner's
contiguous parcel, a property owner shall:

tine-adjustments.-Amend the subdivision plat according to the provisions
of this chapter;

surveyor orengineer.Execute a boundary line adjustment through a
quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement; and

b.—_ The properties as proposed will comply with this Code-Record the

amended plat and quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement in the
office of the county recorder.

4. The joining of a lot or lots to a parcel does not constitute a subdivision as to
the parcel or subject the parcel to other sections of Title 17.


) a boundari
ecstinaael’ bites bonlalaecerfeet icocittbeal apie thon’
leseacael hanthese:

B. Joining Lots: A fee owner may join two (2) or more of the petitioner fee

owner's nil: Sponge eisstbas abl aaaeallaceadinase mano oflowascmien iat,

vifhitn i plat sepnctaneat process in ‘Title iy.
C. Parcel | Boundary : a

the-City. T O mae a nts asia erent a ee owner shall
execute a boundary adjustment through a quitclaim deed or boundary line

agreement and record the quitclaim deed or boundary line agreement with
the county recorder.

1. AParcel boundary adjustment is not subject to the city’s review unless

any of the subject parcels contain a dwelling unit.
2. Parcel boundary adjustments that require review by the city shall:
a. Be filed jointly by the owners of both subject properties.

b. Include a boundary line agreement that complies with the provisions
of Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-524(2), as amended.

3. Within 14 days from the receipt of a complete application for a parcel
boundary adjustment, the zoning administrator or designee shall review
and approve applications that comply with the following requirements:

a. No additional parcels will result from the adjustment.

b. Existing dwelling unit(s) and other structures on the parcel(s) will
maintain compliance with the current setbacks for the zoning district
in which they are located. Where existing dwelling unit(s) or

structures are nonconforming as to current setback requirements,
the amount or degree of nonconformity will not increase as a result
of the parcel boundary adjustment.

c. The proposed parcel boundary adjustment will not create a violation

of any land use ordinance or other city ordinances.


a. Adescription of the specific deficiency or additional information
required.

b. Astatement that the boundary line agreement will be approved
upon the correction of the deficiency or submission of the additional
information.

application.

5. Upon receipt of the information requested in subsection 4, the zonin:
SR ITUBTESS ON 6 or desi aa shall review the complete application according

7. The property owners that are a party to the application shall record with
the county recorder within thirty (30) days of the issuance of the notice of

. Boundary Line Agreements: Boundary line agreements are subject to the

requirements of Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-524, as amended.

Boundary line agreements that are not subject to review of the city shall
e consid as having land use approval.

In accordance with Utah Code Annotated subsections 10-9a-523(5), the

city may withhold approval of any land use applicauion submitted for

other document used to adjust a mutual boundary line if the city
determines that the lots or parcels, as adjusted by the boundary line

whats — ioe that a
city code.

b. Land use applications will still be subject to otherwise applicable
expiration dates if review and approval of necessary boundary line
agreement(s) is not diligently pursued by the applicant.

