ORDINANCE NO. 1493

AN ORDINANCE OF THE DRAPER CITY COUNCIL AMENDING TITLES 3 AND 9 OF
THE DRAPER CITY MUNICIPAL CODE REGARDING SUBORDINATE BODIES.

WHEREAS, Chapter 1 of Title 3 of the Draper City Municipal Code regulates
general provisions regarding the city departments and subordinate bodies; and

WHEREAS, it is necessary from time to time to revise certain terms of the
Draper City Municipal Code to clarify the city’s legislative intent; and

WHEREAS, the subordinate bodies described in 3-1-120 et. seq. have all been
heretofore created by enabling ordinances; and

WHEREAS, the subordinate bodies heretofore created are not created anew
by this ordinance; and

WHEREAS, said enabling ordinances are merely being renumbered and
amended, in some cases, as part of the city’s ongoing effort to clarify its laws and
make navigating the city code easier for Draper City citizens; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has reviewed the proposed text amendment and
finds good cause to revise the terms and provisions of Titles 3 and 9.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY,
STATE OF UTAH, AS FOLLOWS:

Section 1. Findings. The City Council of Draper City has made the following
findings to amend Titles 3 and 9 of the Draper City Municipal Code: 1) Chapter 1 of
Title 3 of the Draper City Municipal Code contains ordinances that address both hired
city personnel and volunteers who serve on bodies that are subordinate to the city
council as that term is used in Ordinance 1486 amended 4-6-2021. 2) The two
classifications of people mentioned above should be segregated into their own
sections of city code. 3) Additional amendments to the nature of subordinate bodies
is necessary to comply with current state statutes. 4) The enabling ordinance for the
appeals and variance hearing officer is more appropriately housed with Title 9 of this
code. The proposed amendments is in compliance with the Utah Code Annotated. 5)

The proposed amendment is in the best interest of the health, safety, and welfare of
the citizens of Draper.

Section 2. Creation and Revision.

1. Portions of Chapter 3-1 of the Draper City Municipal Code are hereby
renumbered, amended, and repealed to include the newly-created Chapter 5 as
shown in Exhibit “A”.

2. Chapter 3-5 of the Draper City Municipal Code is hereby created as shown
in Exhibit “B”.

3. Section 9-5-040 of the Draper City Municipal Code is amended as shown in
Exhibit “C”.

4. Exhibits “A”, “B” and “C" are attached hereto and incorporated herein by
reference.

Section 3. Correction of Editing Errors. The City Attorney is authorized to
correct any punctuation, spelling, formatting, or similar errors prior to submitting the
Ordinance to Sterling Codifiers.

Section 4. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid, or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any
other portion of this Ordinance, and all sections, parts, and provisions of this
Ordinance shall be severable.

Section 5. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately

upon publication or posting, or 30 days after final passage, whichever is closer to the
date of final passage.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF DRAPER CITY, STATE OF UTAH, ON
THIS 15" DAY OF JUNE, 2021.

ATTEST: DRAPER CITY

OSI =
yy. >
Rawal een or

pORA
Laura Oscarson, CMC, CityRe Ord
4


VOTE TAKEN:
Councilmember Green
Councilmember Lowery
Councilmember Lowry
Councilmember Vawdrey
Councilmember Roberts

Mayor Walker

~<

ES

I KAKR AA

NO

EXHIBIT.A

(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)
(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021) (Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)
(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

3-1-170: DRAPER CITY ARTS COUNCIL:

(Rep. by Ord. 591, 11-2-2004)

3-1-180: DRAPER CITY HISTORIC PRESERVATION COMMISSION:
(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

3-1-210: DRAPER CITY NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATIONS:
(Rep. by Ord. 600, 4-5-2005, eff. 5-1-2005)

3-1-220: DRAPER CITY CONSERVATION AREA COMMISSION:
(Rep. by Ord. 556, 1-6-2004)

(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

3-1-240: DRAPER CITY COMMUNITY EVENTS AND VOLUNTEERISM COUNCIL:
(Rep. by Ord. 557, 1-20-2004)

(Repealed by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

(Repealed by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

(Repealed by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

(Repealed by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

(Renumbered by Ord. 1493, 6-15-2021)

EXHIBT B

Section 3-5-010 Subordinate Bodies. The city council may create any subordinate
body deemed necessary or appropriate for the administration of the city and shall
prescribe by resolution or ordinance the organization, powers and duties of such
bodies.

Section 3-5-020 General Rules for Committees. Unless otherwise provided by law
or these ordinances, the following rules shall apply to all committees formed under
this chapter.

A. Committees are advisory bodies only. Neither the committee nor its members
have authority to either represent, act, negotiate or speak on behalf of the city, or
to commit city funds for any purpose unless expressly authorized by the city
council.

B. Committees shall consist of members as the city council shall provide by ordinance
or resolution;

C. Members.
1. Committee members shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice
and consent of the city council.
2. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter:
a. Committee members shall serve four-year terms;
b. When a new committee is created, half of the members
first appointed to the committee may be appointed to an
initial two-year term so that appointments to the
committee are staggered; and
c, Each committee shall have up to eleven (11) members.
3. Committee members with three (3) unexcused absences in a twelve
(12) month period are subject to removal as per 3-5-020(F).

D. Chairperson. A chairperson shall oversee the proceedings and activities of each
committee. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all chairpersons shall:

1. Be appointed by the mayor; and
2. Serve a two-year term;

E. Vice-Chair or Temporary Chair.

1. If the chairperson of a committee is absent, the vice-chair shall
assume the roles of chairperson.
2. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all vice-chairpersons
shall:
a. Be appointed by the mayor; and
b. Serve a two-year term

F. Committee members may be removed at the mayor's sole discretion.

G. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, committee members shall receive
no compensation for their services, but may be reimbursed for reasonable expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties. Committee members shall be deemed
"volunteers" for purposes of city ordinances, rules and regulations regarding
personnel. However, they shall be included in the definition of “employee” for
purposes of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act as set forth in Utah Code
Annotated, as amended.

H. Committees shall conduct meetings in accordance with the Utah Open and Public
Meetings Act. A committee shall keep a public record of its proceedings, and all
minutes of the meetings and decisions of a committee shall be filed in the Office of
the City Recorder as public records. Meetings of a committee may be called by the
chairperson, the vice-chair when acting as the chair, a majority of the members of a
committee, the mayor, city manager, city council or the department head assigned
to work with the committee.

|. Committees may receive funds by an annual appropriation in the city budget, by
government, corporate or private grants or donations, and from proceeds of
approved committee functions, which funds shall be held and managed as directed
by the city council.

J. Advisor. The city manager shall designate a member of the city staff to serve as an
advisor to each committee. The designated staff member shall serve only to advise
and act as a liaison to the city administration and shall have no power to vote on
matters coming before the committee.

K. Quorum. Five members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. Three votes
shall be the minimum number of votes required for a motion to pass unless three
votes does not constitute a majority of the quorum present, in which case, a majority
vote carries a motion.

L. Electronic Meetings. Committees may conduct electronic meetings as long as a
quorum of the committee is present at an anchor location. An electronic meeting
without an anchor location may be conducted in accordance with the Open and
Public Meetings Act.

Section 3-5-030 Planning Commission. There is hereby created and established
a Planning Commission of Draper City to recommend and monitor the planning and
development of the city.

A. Composition and Appointment. The planning commission shall be comprised of
six regular members appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council.

B. Terms. Members shall be appointed to staggered four-year terms but may be
appointed to shorter terms when necessary to provide for staggered terms.
Members may be reappointed for successive terms.

C. Alternates. In addition to the six members of the planning commission, the mayor
shall appoint alternates to the planning commission with the advice and consent of
the city council. Alternates shall serve one-year terms or until appointed to fill a
vacancy on the planning commission. Alternates may be reappointed for successive
terms.

D. Removal. The mayor may remove any member or alternate of the planning
commission with the advice and consent of the city council.

E. Vacancy. A vacancy occurring on the planning commission by reason of death,
resignation, removal or disqualification, shall be promptly filled by a replacement
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council for the
unexpired term of the replaced member.

F. Per Diem. Regular and alternate members of the planning commission shall be
paid per diem compensation for reasonable and necessary expenses for meetings
actually attended, in an amount of $100.00.

G. Powers. The planning commission shall be organized and exercise its powers and
duties as follows:

1. The planning commission shall elect one of its members as
chairperson to oversee all proceedings and activities. The chairperson shall
vote only in the event of a tie or when needed to establish a quorum. The
chairperson shall serve for a term of one year. The planning commission shall
elect one of its members as vice-chairperson to act as chairperson in the
absence of the chairperson or because of the chair’s inability or refusal to act.
The vice-chairperson, acting as the chairperson, shall have the power to vote
on all matters.

2. The planning commission may adopt bylaws that govern the conduct
of its meetings. Such bylaws shall be approved by the city council before taking
effect.

3. The planning commission shall meet according to the schedule
adopted each year by the city council, and/or such other times as deemed
necessary by the chairperson or city council. All meetings shall be properly
noticed and held in accordance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act
of the Utah Code Annotated, as amended. Written minutes of all business
meetings of the planning commission shall be prepared and filed in the office
of the city recorder for review and access by the public in accordance with the
Utah Government Records Access and Management Act.

4. No official business shall be conducted by the planning commission
unless a quorum of its members or alternate members is present. Alternates
shall be allowed to vote on official business of the planning commission when
not all regular members of the planning commission are present. At no time
shall more than five regular members or alternates and one chairperson
participate in any official business of the commission. Unless otherwise
prescribed by law, the planning commission may not take action or forward
any recommendation to city council on an agenda item unless without three
votes in favor of the action or recommendation.

5. Alternates may fill vacancies occurring on the Commission or may be
appointed to the Commission as regular members’ terms expire.

6. Alternates should attend planning retreats and educational meetings
related to the obligations and duties of the planning commission as offered by
the city, and attend joint meetings of the planning commission and city council.

H. Duties. It shall be the function of the planning commission to oversee the proper
development of the city in accordance with pertinent city ordinances and provisions
of Utah Municipal Land Use and Management Act as amended. The duties of the
planning commission shall include:

1. Preparing and recommending a general plan and amendments
thereto to the city council;

2. Recommending zoning ordinances and maps, and amendments to
zoning ordinances and maps, to the city council;

3. Administering applicable provisions of Titles 9 and 17;

4. Recommending subdivision ordinances and regulations and
amendments thereto to the city council;

5. Recommending approval or denial of subdivision applications;
6. Advising the city council on matters when requested;
7. Hearing or deciding any matter that the city council designates;

8. Preparing and recommending programs for public improvements
and the financing thereof to the city council; and

9. Exercising any other powers delegated by the city council that are
necessary to enable the planning commission to perform its function.

|. Examinations and Surveys. The planning commission and its authorized agents
may enter upon any land at reasonable times to make examinations and surveys as
necessary to enable it to perform its function to promote city planning and
development.

J. Appeals.
1. Definition. For purposes of an appeal of a planning commission decision,
“affected person” means:
a. Any applicant before the planning commission; or
b. Any person other than an applicant who: -

i. owns real property adjoining the property that is the subject of
a land use application or land use decision; or
ii. will suffer a damage different in kind than, or an injury distinct
from, that of the general community as a result of the land use
decision.
2. Any affected person may appeal a planning commission decision by filing a
written appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer stating the grounds for
appeal within 14 days from the date of the decision or action.

K. Training. The planning commission shall receive training from time to time as
required by state law.

Section 3-5-040 |Community Reinvestment Agency. There is hereby created and
established a community reinvestment agency of Draper City, created pursuant to
the Community Reinvestment Agency Act, set forth in Utah Code Annotated as
amended. This agency was previously known as the Re-development Agency or RDA.

A. Purpose. The purpose of the community reinvestment agency is to assist the city
in taking actions to reinvest, renew, provide economic development, and community
development for specified areas of the city in accordance with the Community
Reinvestment Agency Act, and as adopted by the city council.

B. Governing Body. The city council shall be the governing body of the community
reinvestment agency.

C. Powers and Duties. The community reinvestment agency is authorized to enter
into agreements generally in connection with community reinvestment matters and
shall have the power to transact the business of the Agency and to exercise all the
powers, rights, duties and privileges set forth in the Community Reinvestment
Agency Act.

Section 3-5-050 Draper City Historic Preservation Commission:

A. Creation: On February 21, 1985, Draper City established a Draper City Historic
Preservation Commission to act as an advisory board to the City regarding historic
sites and structures within the City. The City Council shall be empowered to provide
monetary and nonmonetary assistance to the Draper City Historic Preservation
Commission upon submission and formal authorization by the City Council.

B. Purpose: Draper City recognizes that the historical heritage of the community is
among its most valued and important assets. The purpose of the Historic
Preservation Commission is to assist the City in identifying, preserving, protecting,
and enhancing historic buildings, sites, monuments, streetscapes and landmarks
within the City deemed architecturally or historically significant. In addition, the
commission will act in an advisory capacity to the City regarding the
implementation of the Draper City Conservation Area Master Plan and Town Center
covering the general historic core area of Draper City. By protecting such
architecturally and historically significant areas, sites and structures, they may be
preserved for the use, observation, education, pleasure and general welfare of the
present and future residents of the City.

C. Members:

1. Number: The Historic Preservation Commission shall consist of not less
than three (3) nor more than nine (9) members who shall have a demonstrated
interest, competence or knowledge in historic preservation or architecture. To the
extent available in the community, two (2) commission members shall be
“professionals" from the disciplines of history, architecture or architectural history,
as defined by the National Park Service regulations. Notwithstanding any other
provision to the contrary, three (3) members of the commission may be non-
residents of Draper City provided, however, such non-resident member of the
commission must own property designated on the Historic Sites List or on the
Historic Landmark Register.

2. Term: Commission members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the City Council to staggered terms of two (2) years, provided
that members may be appointed for terms shorter than two (2) years when
necessary to provide for staggered terms.

3. Chairperson: The Mayor of Draper City shall appoint one of the members
of the commission as Chairperson with the advice and consent of the City Council.
The Chairperson shall oversee the proceedings and activities of the commission.

4, Removal: Members shall serve at the pleasure of the City and may be
removed at any time by majority vote of the City Council.

5. Vacancy: Vacancies on the commission occurring for any reason shall be
filled by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, in accordance
with the procedures for appointment set forth herein, for the unexpired term of
such member.

6. Compensation: Members shall serve without compensation and shall be
deemed "volunteers" for purposes of City ordinances, rules, regulations and
policies concerning personnel, provided, members may be reimbursed for
reasonable and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as
determined appropriate and pre-approved by the City Council.

7. Governmental Immunity: Members of the commission shall be deemed
included in the definition of "employee" for purposes of the Utah Governmental
Immunity Act as set forth in Utah Code Annotated section 63G-7-101, et seq., as
amended.

D. Organization And Procedures:

1. Chairperson: The Mayor of Draper City shall appoint one of the members
of the commission as Chairperson with the advice and consent of the City Council.
The Chairperson shall oversee the proceedings and activities of the commission.
The Chairperson shall be a voting member of the commission.

2. Co-Chairperson: The commission shall appoint one of its members as Co-
Chairperson to act as Chairperson in the event the Chairperson is unable to attend
the meeting.

3. Other Officers: The commission may appoint other members to act as
other officers of the commission.

4. Meetings: The commission shall hold meetings monthly. Meetings of the
commission may be called by the Chairperson, a majority of the members of the
commission, the Mayor, or the City Manager. Meetings shall be conducted in
accordance with properly approved rules and regulations of the commission.

5. Open Meetings: Meetings of the commission shall be conducted in
accordance with the Open Public Meetings Laws of the State of Utah, including
public notification of meeting place, time, and agenda items. The commission shall
keep a public record of its proceedings, and all minutes of the meetings and
decisions of the commission shall be filed in the Office of the City Recorder as
public records.

6. Quorum: No official business of the commission shall be conducted
except in the presence of a properly constituted quorum. A quorum shall consist of
the attendance of at Jeast three (3) of the members of the commission.

7. Rules: The commission may adopt reasonable rules and regulations in
accordance with the provisions set forth herein for governing the conduct of its
business. All such rules and regulations shall be submitted to the City Council for
review and approval by resolution.

8. Staff: The commission may employ consultants and/or staff personnel to
assist the commission in performing its duties upon prior approval of the City
Council.

E. Duties Of The Commission: The commission shall perform the following duties
and any other duties as designated by the City Council:

1. Survey And Inventory Community Historic Resources: The Historic
Preservation Commission shall conduct or cause to be conducted a survey of the
historic, architectural, and archaeological resources within the City. The survey shall
be compatible with the Utah Inventory of Historic and Archaeological Sites. All
survey and inventory documents shall be maintained and open to the public. The
survey shall be updated at least every ten (10) years.

2. List Of Historic Buildings And Sites: The Historic Preservation Commission
shall establish and maintain a list of historic structures and sites within the City in
accordance with the results of the survey and the provisions set forth herein,
known as the "Draper City Historic Sites List".

3. Historic Landmark Register: The historic preservation commission shall
establish and maintain a historic landmark register designating significant historic
structures and sites within the city in accordance with the results of the survey and
the provisions set forth herein, known as the "Draper City historic landmark
register".

4. Review Proposed Nominations: The historic preservation commission
shall review and comment to the state historic preservation office on all proposed
national register nominations for properties within the boundaries of the city.

5. Provide Advice And Information: The historic preservation commission
shall act as an advisory committee to other officials, departments and committees
of the city regarding the designation, preservation, modification and demolition of
historic structures and sites within the city. The commission shall also provide
advice to the city on the creation and implementation of processes and policies to

further the implementation of the Draper City conservation area master plan and
town center.

6. Educate Public: The commission shall work toward the continuing
education of citizens regarding historic preservation and Draper City's history.

7. Support Of Enforcement Provisions: The historic preservation
commission shall support the enforcement of all state laws relating to historic
preservation, including, but not limited to, Utah Code Annotated 9-8-501 et seq., as
amended, regarding the historical preservation act; Utah Code Annotated 9-8-301
et seq., as amended, regarding the protection of Utah antiquities; and Utah Code
Annotated 9-8-401 et seq., as amended, regarding notification of the state historic
preservation office of any known proposed action which will destroy or affect a site,
building or object owned by the state of Utah and included on or eligible for the
state or national registers.

F. Draper City Historic Sites List:

1. Created: There is hereby created a Draper City historic sites list, which list
shall serve as a means of providing recognition to and encouraging the
preservation of historic properties in the city. The historic sites list shall be
prepared and maintained by the historic preservation commission in accordance
with the provisions set forth herein. The commission shall ensure that the historic
sites list and any subsequent amendments or any additions thereto are filed with
the city recorder.

2. Contents: The historic sites list shall describe as concisely as possible
each structure or site, the date of its construction as nearly as can be determined
or, if a site, the date during which its historic significance was established, the
reason for including it on such list, and the name and address of the current owner
as shown on the records of the Salt Lake County recorder.

3. Request For Designation: Any person, group, or governmental agency
may nominate a property for listing on the historic sites list by submitting a written
request for designation to the historic preservation commission. The request for
designation shall include documentation of the qualifying contents and criteria set
forth in this section, including, in duplicate, a completed intensive level survey
documentation for the nominated property.

4. Review Of Request: Upon receipt of the written request for designation,
the commission will review the submitted nomination at the commission's next
scheduled meeting permitting adequate notice of the same. The commission will

notify the nominating party, either orally or in writing, one week prior to the
meeting that the nomination will be considered and will place that item on the
agenda posted for the meeting. The one week notification may be waived at the
discretion of the commission upon request by the nominating party in order to
accommodate "last minute” submittals, provided no nomination will be reviewed if
it is submitted to the commission less than forty eight (48) hours prior to the
meeting. The commission shall review the nomination for completeness, accuracy
and compliance in accordance with the criteria set forth herein and approve,
approve with conditions or deny the same.

5. Designation: When historic properties have been officially designated to
the historic sites list by the commission, the commission shall promptly notify the
owners of those properties in writing of the designation, together with a copy of
this section. The commission shall record the historic sites list designation with the
city recorder's office. Owners of designated property may obtain a historic sites
certificate from the historic preservation commission, which certificate shall contain
the historic name of the property, the date of designation, and signature of the
historic preservation commission chairperson.

6. Criteria: The historic preservation commission may designate any district,
building, structure, object, or site to the historic sites list, in accordance with the
procedures set forth herein, if it meets all the criteria outlined below:

a. Boundaries: It is located within the official boundaries of the city.
b. Age: It is at least fifty (50) years old.

c. Retaining Historical Integrity: Except as provided in subsection Féd
of this section, it retains its historic integrity, in that there are no major
alterations or additions that have obscured or destroyed the significant
historic features. "Major alterations” that would destroy the historic integrity
include, but are not limited to, changes in pitch of the main roof,
enlargement or enclosure of windows on the principal facades, addition of
upper stories or the removal of original upper stories, covering the exterior
walls with nonhistoric materials, moving the resource from its original
location to one that is dissimilar to the original, additions which significantly
detract from or obscure the original form and appearance of the structure
when viewed from the public way.

d. Exceptional Significance: If the property does not meet the integrity
requirements outlined in subsection Féc of this section, it may still qualify for

designation if it meets one of the following requirements for exceptional
significance:

(1) Itis directly associated with events of historic significance in
Draper City;

(2) It is closely associated with the lives of persons who were of
historic importance to Draper City; or

(3) It exhibits significant methods of construction or materials
that were used within the historic period.

e. Documentation: It has been documented according to the Utah
state historic preservation office standards for intensive level surveys
(October 1991 version or subsequent revisions). Copies of such
documentation must be included in the application for designation and
maintained in the city preservation files.

f. Approval Statement: Statement that the owner approves of the
action to designate his or her property to the historic sites list.

G. Draper City Historic Landmark Register:

1. Created: There is hereby created a Draper City historic landmark register,
which register shall provide further recognition of significant historic structures and
sites and provide certain benefits and rehabilitation guidelines for such significant
structures and sites as an incentive for their preservation. The Draper City historic
landmark register shall be prepared and maintained by the historic preservation
commission in accordance with the provisions set forth herein. The commission
shall ensure that the register and any subsequent amendments or any additions
thereto are filed with the city and county recorder’s office.

2. Contents: The landmark register shall describe as concisely as possible
each structure or site, the date of its construction as nearly as can be determined,
or if a site, the date during which its historic significance was established, the
qualifications for including it on the register, and the name and address of the
current owner of the property as shown on the records of the Salt Lake County
recorder.

3. Request For Designation: Any owner of property may nominate his or her
property for listing on the landmark registry by submitting a written request for
designation to the historic preservation commission. An official request for
designation may be preceded by informal contacts with the property owner by the

commission members or other interested parties. Written requests for designation
shall include the following:

a. Address and historic name of the property.

b. Date the property was listed in the national register or officially
determined eligible and documentation supporting such listing or eligibility.

c. Statement verifying that the owner is indeed the owner of legal
record of the property.

d. Statement that the owner approves of the action to designate his
or her property to the historic landmark register.

e. Documentation, in duplicate, regarding the property in accordance
with the Utah state historic preservation office standards for intensive level
surveys.

f. Any other information deemed necessary by the historic
preservation commission or the city council for determining the property's
eligibility for designation.

4. Review Of Request: Upon receipt of the written request for designation,
the commission shall arrange for the nomination to be considered at the
commission's next meeting. The commission will notify the nominating party, in
writing, one week prior to the meeting that the nomination will be considered and
will place that item on the agenda posted for the meeting. The one week
notification may be waived at the discretion of the commission upon request by the
nominating party in order to accommodate "last minute” submittals, provided no
nomination will be reviewed if it is submitted to the commission less than forty
eight (48) hours prior to the meeting. The commission shall review the nomination
for completeness, accuracy and compliance in accordance with the criteria set forth
herein and forward its written recommendations regarding the same to the city
council for its review and approval, approval with conditions or denial of the same.

5. Designation: The city council may designate the nomination to the
historic landmark register by approval and passage of an appropriate resolution.
When historic properties have been officially designated to the historic landmark
register by the city council, the commission shall promptly notify the owners of
those properties in writing of the designation, together with a copy of this section.
The historic preservation commission, at the owner's expense, shall record the
historic landmark register status designation with the city and county recorder's
office within thirty (30) days from the date of designation. Owners of designated

property may obtain a historic landmark register certificate from the historic
preservation commission, which certificate shall contain the historic name of the
property, the date of designation, and signature of the historic preservation
commission chairperson.

6. Automatic Designation: Notwithstanding the above, any structure, site or
property already listed on the national register as of the date hereof shall
automatically be designated to the historic landmark register, and the historic
preservation commission shall provide notice in writing to the owner of such
structure, site, or property of such designation, together with a copy of this section.

7. Criteria: Any district, building, structure, object or site may be designated
to the historic landmark register in accordance with the procedures set forth herein
if it meets all the criteria outlined below:

a. Boundaries: It is located within the official boundaries of the city.

b. National Register Listing: It is currently listed in the national
register of historic places, or it has been officially determined eligible for
listing in the national register of historic places under the provisions of 36
CFR 60.6(s), as amended. Documentation from the Utah state historic
preservation office declaring that the property would qualify for listing on the
national register shall be sufficient for purposes of complying with this
section.

c. Retaining Integrity: It must retain its integrity and meet at least one
of the following national register criteria:

(1) Be associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to the broad patterns of the community's history; or

(2) Be associated with the lives of persons significant in the
community's past; or

(3) Embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period, or
method of construction, represent the work of a master, possess high
artistic values, or represent a significant and distinguishable entity
whose components may lack individual distinction; or

(4) Have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information
important in prehistory or history (e.g., archaeological sites).

d. Approval Statement: The owner of the property approves of the
action to designate his or her property to the historic landmark register and
has submitted a written statement to that effect.

e. Documentation: Properties which are not already listed on the
national register and properly documented by an intensive level survey, shall
be documented in accordance with the Utah state historic preservation office
standards for intensive level surveys. Copies of such documentation must be
included in the application for designation and maintained in the city
preservation files.

H. Special Considerations For Landmark Properties:

1. Zoning: Properties designated to the historic landmark register may
receive special consideration in the granting of zoning variances or conditional use
permits in order to encourage their preservation as deemed appropriate by the
city. Any such variances or conditional use permits granted hereunder shall be
subject to continued designation of the property on the historic landmark register.
If the property is removed from such designation, the permit may be revoked
and/or the property deemed nonconforming to the extent of the special
consideration given to the property.

2. Building Codes: In the event of rehabilitation of the property, local
building officials will consider waiving certain code requirements in accordance with
section 104(f) of the uniform building code regarding historic buildings or the
uniform code for building conservation, as adopted and amended by the city.

3. Taxes: Owners of historic landmarks may seek assistance from the
historic preservation commission in applying for grants or tax credits for
rehabilitating their properties.

|. Alterations Or Modifications To Landmark Properties: In order to ensure the
preservation of historic materials and features of historic landmark property to the
greatest extent possible, proposed repairs, alterations or additions to such
property are subject to review by the historic preservation commission and the city
council in accordance with the provisions set forth herein. Any property owner
desiring to keep its property on the historic landmark register shall comply with the
provisions set forth herein.

1. Review By Historic Preservation Commission: All applications for building
permits pertaining to historic landmark properties shall be forwarded by the
building official or community development director within five (5) business days

from receipt of the application to the historic preservation commission. The
commission shall review at its next regularly scheduled meeting the application and
proposed work for compliance with the standards for rehabilitation set forth
herein.

2. Findings: The commission shall promptly review the application and the
proposed work and determine the appropriateness of the work. If the commission
deems the proposed work appropriate and in keeping with the preservation of the
historic integrity of the property, the commission shall notify the building official in
writing of its determination of the appropriateness of the work. If the commission
deems the proposed work inappropriate in keeping with the preservation of the
historic integrity of the property, the commission shall forward notice of such
determination, together with recommendations as to how the work may be
accomplished to comply with historic preservation standards. If the commission
does not approve the proposed work as “appropriate”, the building official shall
notify the owner of the recommendations. The owner is encouraged to work with
the historic preservation commission to determine the most appropriate means of
altering the property in order to maintain the historic integrity of the property. If
the owner does not comply with the recommendations of the historic preservation
commission as approved by the building official, the property shall be subject to
removal from the register.

3. Documents: Any building permit issued for historic landmark properties
shall be forwarded to the historic preservation commission by the building
department and maintained by the historic preservation commission to assist in
preserving and documenting the alterations made to historic landmark properties.

J. Demolition Or Alteration Of Listed Property:

1. Review Of Permits: All applications for a demolition permit shall be
forwarded by the building official and/or community development director within
five (5) business days from receipt of the application to the historic preservation
commission for review and evaluation.

2. Demolition Of Designated Properties:

a. Negotiation Process: If the property to be demolished is designated
on the historic sites list or the historic landmark register, the historic
preservation commission may delay the issuance of a demolition permit for
the property for a period of thirty (30) days from the date the application is
received by the commission for the explicit and express purpose of
negotiating or arranging alternatives to the demolition of the structure.

b. Documentation Process: In the event that no agreement is reached
between the parties regarding alternatives to the proposed demolition, the
historic preservation commission shall have fourteen (14) days thereafter to
document the site and the structure's physical appearance before any
demolition takes place. Documentation may include, at a minimum, exterior
photographs of all elevations of the historic building, and exterior and
interior measurements of the building in order to provide an accurate floor
plan drawing of the building. All documentation shall be kept in the city's
preservation files, which shall be open to the public.

3. Demolition Of Nondesignated Property:

a. Determination Of Significance: If the property to be demolished is
not designated on the historic sites list or the historic landmark register, the
chairperson of the commission shall make an initial determination within two
(2) days from the date the commission receives the application as to whether
the property may be of historical or cultural significance. If the chairperson
determines that the property has the potential to be of historic or cultural
significance, the historic preservation commission shall review the
application and proposed demolition at its next regularly scheduled meeting
to determine if the site or structure is of such historical and/or cultural
significance that attempts should be made to negotiate alternatives to
demolition and/or to document the site or structure. The commission will
notify the applicant, in writing, one week prior to the meeting that the
application will be considered and will place the item on the agenda posted
for the meeting. The one week notification may be waived at the discretion of
the commission upon request by the applicant in order to accommodate
"last minute" submittals, provided no application will be reviewed if it is
submitted to the commission less than forty eight (48) hours prior to the
meeting. If the commission determines that the property is not of such
historical and/or cultural significance that attempts should be made to
negotiate alternatives to demolition and/or to document the site or structure
a demolition permit may be issued upon approval by the city.

b. Delay Of Permit: If the commission determines that the property is
of such historical and/or cultural significance, the historic preservation
commission may delay issuance of the permit for the property for a period of
thirty (30) days from the date the commission determines the property is of
historical and/or cultural significance for the explicit and express purpose of
negotiating or arranging alternatives to the demolition of the structure and
documenting the site and the structure's physical appearance.

Documentation may include such items as set forth in subsection J2b of this
section.

c. Criteria For Determining Significance: In order to delay the issuance
of a demolition permit for nondesignated properties under this section, the
historic preservation commission must determine that the site or structure
would be eligible for designation in accordance with the criteria set forth
herein for such designations.

K. Removal Of Properties From List Or Register:

1. By Nonowner: Properties which, in the opinion of the historic site
commission, no longer meet the criteria for eligibility may be removed from the
historic sites list or the historic landmark register after review and consideration by
the commission. Any such removal initiated by someone other than the owner shall
be made in accordance with the designation procedures and criteria set forth
herein. The owner of the property shall be notified in writing of the date and time
of the meeting during which the removal will be considered. When a historic
property has been removed from the historic sites list or the historic landmark
register, the commission shall promptly notify the owner of the property in writing
of the removal.

2. By Owner: Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent an owner
from removing his or her property from the historic sites list or the historic
landmark register as the owner in his or her sole discretion deems appropriate.
Such request for removal shall be made in writing by the owner to the historic
preservation commission. Requests for removal from the historic sites list shall be
determined by the historic preservation commission. Requests for removal from
the historic landmark register shall be determined by the city council. The owner of
the property shall be notified in writing of the date and time of the meeting during
which the removal will be considered by the historic preservation commission or
the city council, as applicable. The historic preservation commission and the city
council may not withhold approval of any removal request, but review and written
approval shall be conducted by the city for informational and administrative
purposes. The city shall not accept any liability whatsoever for an owner's decision
to remove his or her property from the historic sites list or the historic landmark
register.

3. Notice Of Removal: When any property is removed from the historic sites
list or the historic landmark register, the commission shall file notice of the removal
with the city and county recorder's office, as applicable.

L. Standards For Rehabilitation: The following "standards for rehabilitation" shall
be used by the historic preservation commission and city council when determining
the historic appropriateness of any application pertaining to historic sites list and
historic landmark properties:

1. Use: The property shall be used for its historic purpose or be placed ina
new use that requires minimal change to the defining characteristics of the
structure and its site and environment.

2. Character: The historic character of the property shall be retained and
preserved. The removal of historic materials or alteration of features and spaces
that characterize the property shall be avoided.

3. Developments: Each property shall be recognized as a physical record of
its time, place, and use. Changes that create a false sense of historical
development, such as adding conjectural features or architectural elements from
other buildings, shall not be undertaken.

4. Changes: Most properties change over time; those changes that have
acquired historic significance in their own right shall be retained and preserved.

5. Distinctive Items: Distinctive features, finishes, and construction
techniques or examples of craftsmanship that characterize the structure shall be
preserved.

6. Deterioration: Deteriorated historic features shall be repaired rather than
replaced. Where the severity of deterioration requires replacement of a distinctive
feature, the new feature shall match the old in design, color, texture, and other
visual qualities and, where possible, materials. Replacement of missing features
shall be substantiated by documentary, physical, or pictorial evidence.

7. Cleaning: Chemical or physical treatments, such as sandblasting, that
cause damage to historic materials shall not be used. The surface cleaning of
structures, if appropriate, shall be undertaken using the gentlest means possible.

8. Resources: Significant archaeological resources affected by a project shall
be protected and preserved. If such resources must be disturbed, mitigation
measures Shall be undertaken.

9. Materials: New additions, exterior alterations, or related new construction
shall not destroy historic materials that characterize the property. The new work
shall be differentiated from the old and shall be compatible with the massing, size,

scale, and architectural features to protect the historic integrity of the historic
property and its environment.

10. Historic Integrity: New additions and adjacent or related new
construction shall be undertaken in such a manner that if removed in the future,
the essential form and integrity of the historic property and its environment would
be unimpaired.

11. Additional Guidelines: Additional guidelines may be used as set forth in
"The Secretary Of The Interior's Standards For Rehabilitation And Guidelines For
Rehabilitating Historic Buildings”.

M. Enforcement: The provisions of this section are subject to the enforcement
provisions established in the uniform building code, uniform code for building
conservation, uniform housing code, zoning ordinances, and other ordinances, as
adopted and amended by the city. Failure to follow standards as required herein
may result in the removal of the property from the historic sites list, the historic
landmark register and the national register of historic places,

N. Appeals: Any interested person aggrieved by any final decision of the historic
preservation commission in the administration of this chapter may appeal such
decision to the city council by filing a written appeal with the city recorder stating
the grounds therefor within fourteen (14) days from the date of the decision or
action.

Section 3-5-060 Draper City Parks, Trails and Recreation Committee.

A. Creation. There is hereby created a Draper City Parks, Trails and Recreation
Committee to recommend and monitor the establishment of facilities, programs and
policies to meet the recreational and aesthetic needs of the citizens of Draper City.

B. Duties. It shall be the duty of the committee to act in an advisory and voluntary
capacity in the development of parks, trails and recreation opportunities for Draper
City residents, including but not limited to the following:

1. Recommend to the city council a Parks, Trails and Recreation Master
Plan;

2. Review and recommend to the city council and planning commission
appropriate changes and updates to the Parks, Trails and Recreation Master
Plan;

3. Recommend projects, legislation, policies, funding allocations, and
other measures, programs, or activities for the development of parks, trails
and recreation opportunities within the city;

4. Carry out projects, programs, or activities as directed by the city
council; and

5. Initiate, sponsor, and promote involvement, activities and
contributions by the private sector for the development of parks, trails and
recreation in the city.

Section 3-5-070 Draper City Special Event Arena Committee.

A. Creation. There is hereby created a Draper City Special Event Arena Committee to
advise the city regarding projects, programs, activities and administration of the
Draper City arena.

B. Duties. It shall be the duty of the committee to act in an advisory and voluntary
capacity to the city regarding programs, activities, and administration of the Draper
City arena including but not limited to the following:

1. Propose and recommend policies, standards and rules pertinent to
the arena programs;

2. Assist the city in creating and implementing activities and programs
for the arena consistent with the needs of the business operators and
residents of Draper;

3. Seek and solicit resources for supporting the needs of the arena; and

4. Keep the general public informed of the activities and concerns of the
arena.

Section 3-5-080 Draper City Tree Committee

A. Creation: There is hereby created the Draper City Tree Committee to act as an
advisory committee to the city council and other city departments on matters relating
to tree culture including the establishment, maintenance and upkeep of all trees,
shrubbery and other plant life located on city property.

B. Members: To the extent available in the community, members should have a
variety of experience with specialized knowledge relating to forestry, landscaping,
fundraising, or administration sufficient to contribute in an advisory capacity to the
city regarding matters of policy and practice relating to trees, shrubbery and other
plant life located on city property.

C. Duties: The committee may recommend policies of tree culture related to trees
and shrubbery currently planted and growing or hereafter to be planted and grown
upon any and all city-owned properties and places in the city. The committee duties
shall include the following as well as any other which may be assigned to it from time
to time by the city council:

1. Recommend goals and policies to the city council regarding tree culture for
Draper City in the manner prescribed by state law and city ordinance. The plan may
include an inventory of existing trees, plans for various public areas such as the
entrances to the city, city parks, main transportation corridors and others, policies in
regards to the planting of trees for beautification, noise dampening, visual screening,
weather protection, erosion control and other factors;

2. Make recommendations to the city council on public relations matters,
including, but not limited to, programs such as Arbor Day, cleanup days, home
beautification contests and other tree related city activities;

3. Prepare and recommend for approval by the city council, an official street
tree guide which shall designate which species may be planted in park strips and
which trees are recommended for other public places;

4. Make recommendations on arboricultural specifications and standards of
practices for all trees and shrubbery on City property, and recommend standards
and specifications for the work of any person or organization engaged in the
business of working on trees within the city;

5. Make recommendations on the grounds immediately surrounding the
trees and shrubbery on public property, as far as it is necessary to assure the proper
growth, care and protection of said trees and shrubbery;

6. Make recommendations on the care and treatment of trees and shrubbery,
including planting, maintenance, pruning, spraying and removal of trees and
shrubbery on city property;

7. Make recommendations on the identification, marking and preservation of
historic or notable trees;

8. Develop standards and specifications regarding the planting of trees for
new developments, including site plans and subdivisions and make
recommendations to the planning commission and city council regarding the same;
and

9. Develop standards and specifications regarding the planting of trees on
public property, including size, location and approved species and make
recommendations for adoption in this code.

3-5-090 Draper City Emergency Preparedness Committee:

A. Creation: There is hereby created an Emergency Preparedness Committee for
Draper City to recommend and monitor the establishment of emergency
preparedness plans and to facilitate the provision of City services during natural
disaster situations and other emergencies.

B. Members:

1. Number: The Emergency Preparedness Committee shall be comprised of
an Executive Committee of voting members and non- voting Community Sub-
Committee members. The Executive Committee voting members shall be
comprised of the Draper City Manager or designee, the Draper City Police Chief or
designee, the Draper City Public Works Director or designee, the designated Draper
City Emergency Manager, the Draper City Public Information Officer, a
representative from the Unified Fire Authority, the Chair of the Draper City

Emergency Preparedness District Representative Committee, a representative from
Water Pro, a representative from the Canyons School District, a representative from
Salt Lake County Emergency Services, a representative from Juan Diego High
School, a representative from the Fire-Wise Program community, a representative
from Draper Area Chamber of Commerce, a representative from Lone Peak
Hospital and other voting members that may be appointed by the Mayor with the
advice and consent of the City Council. Non-voting members of the Community
Sub-Committee shall be comprised of citizens and stakeholders within the
community who desire to participate and provide input on emergency services
related matters or have specialized knowledge or experience that will benefit the
work of the Emergency Preparedness Committee. Other than those specified voting
members identified by this subsection, other voting members shall only be
appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council. Non-
voting Community Sub-Committee members shall be approved by the Executive
Committee Chair of the Emergency Preparedness Committee, with the advice and
consent of the voting members of the Executive Committee.

2. Officers: The Executive Committee of the Emergency Preparedness
Committee shall select a Secretary and a Treasurer who shall serve for a term of
two (2) years.

3, Executive Committee Chair: The Mayor shall appoint the Executive
Committee Chair with the advice and consent of the City Council.

4. By-Laws: The Emergency Preparedness Committee shall establish by-laws
to govern the conduct of meetings and other matters within the discretion of the
committee.

5. Term: Members of the Executive Committee serve terms of four (4) years.
Except for the Chair of the Draper City Emergency Preparedness District
Representative Committee, who is selected by the district representatives to serve a
one-year term. The Chair of the Draper City Emergency Preparedness District
Representative Committee shall serve on the Executive Committee during their
specified elected term. Members may serve an unlimited number of terms, if
reappointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.
Community Sub-Committee members serve terms of four (4) years. Community
Sub-Committee members may serve unlimited terms, if reappointed by the
Executive Committee Chair with the advice and consent of the voting members of
the Executive Committee.

6. Removal: The Mayor and City Council are under no obligation to approve
any proposed appointment and may remove any Executive Committee member at
their discretion. Community Sub-Committee members may be removed by the
Executive Committee Chair with the consent of the Mayor.

Section 3-5-100 Traverse Ridge Special Service District Administrative Control
Board.

A. Board Creation. There is hereby created the Traverse Ridge Special Service District
Administrative Control Board. It shall administer the Traverse Ridge Special Service
District to provide transportation services, including snow removal, street lighting,
repairing and maintenance of roads, sweeping, and disposal services pursuant to
Resolution No. 99-82 executed December 28, 1999, which created the district.

B. Powers and Duties. Except for the powers expressly reserved to the city council in
Subsection (c) or where the delegation of power is otherwise prohibited by law, the
board may:

1. Exercise the power of eminent domain possessed by the city that
creates the special service district;

2. Enter into a contract that the governing authority considers
desirable to carry out special service district functions, including a contract:

a. with the United States or an agency of the United States,
the state, an institution of higher education, a county, a municipality, a
school district, a local district, another special service district, or any
other political subdivision of the state; or

b. that includes provisions concerning the use, operation,
and maintenance of special service district facilities and the collection
of fees or charges with respect to commodities, services, or facilities
that the district provides;

3. Acquire or construct facilities;

4. Acquire real or personal property, or an interest in real or
personal property, including water and water rights, whether by purchase,
lease, gift, devise, bequest, or otherwise, and whether the property is located
inside or outside the special service district, and own, hold, improve, use,
finance, or otherwise deal in and with the property or property right;

5. Sell, convey, lease, exchange, transfer, or otherwise dispose of all
or any part of the special service district's property or assets, including water
and water rights;

6. Mortgage, pledge, or otherwise encumber all or any part of the
special service district's property or assets, including water and water rights;

7. Enter into a contract with respect to the use, operation, or
maintenance of all or any part of the special service district's property or
assets, including water and water rights;

8. Accept a government grant or loan and comply with the
conditions of the grant or loan;

9. Use an officer, employee, property, equipment, office, or facility
of the city that created the special service district, subject to reimbursement;

10. Employ one or more officers, employees, or agents, including one
or more engineers, accountants, attorneys, or financial consultants, and
establish their compensation;

11. Designate an assessment area and levy an assessment as
provided by state law;

12. Contract with a franchised, certificated public utility for the
construction and operation of an electrical service distribution system within
the special service district;

13. Borrow money and incur indebtedness;

14. As provided in Part 5, Special Service District Bonds, issue bonds
for the purpose of acquiring, constructing, and equipping any of the facilities

required for the services the special service district is authorized to provide,
including:

a. bonds payable in whole or in part from taxes levied on the
taxable property in the special service district;

b. bonds payable from revenues derived from the operation of
revenue-producing facilities of the special service district;

c. bonds payable from both taxes and revenues;

d. guaranteed bonds, payable in whole or in part from taxes
levied on the taxable property in the special service district;

e. tax anticipation notes;

f. bond anticipation notes;

g. refunding bonds;

h. special assessment bonds; and

i. bonds payable in whole or in part from mineral lease
payments as provided by state law;

15. Except as otherwise stated by ordinance, impose fees or charges
or both for commodities, services, or facilities that the special service
district provides;

16. Provide to an area outside the special service district's boundary,
whether inside or outside the state, a service that the special service district is
authorized to provide within its boundary, if the governing body makes a
finding that there is a public benefit to providing the service to the area outside
the special service district's boundary;

17. Provide other services that the governing body determines will
more effectively carry out the purposes of the special service district; and

18. Adopt an official seal for the special service district.

C. The following powers are expressly reserved to the city council or are otherwise
prohibited from delegation:

1. The power to annex an area into the district or add a service
within the area of the district under Part 4, Annexing a New Area and Adding
a New Service;

2. The power to designate the classes of special service district
contracts that are subject to building improvements and public works projects;

3. The power to levy a tax on the taxable property within the special
service district;

4. The power to issue special service district bonds payable from
taxes;

5. The power to cal! or hold an election for the authorization of a
property tax or the issuance of bonds;

6. The power to levy an assessment;

7. The power to issue interim warrants or bonds payable from an
assessment; and

8. The power to appoint a board of equalization.

D. The city council may at any time modify, limit, or revoke any right, power, or
authority delegated to the administrative control board. A modification, limitation,
or revocation does not affect the validity of an action taken by the administrative —
control board before the modification, limitation, or revocation.

E. Members.

1. Number. The board shall be comprised of five members who
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the city
council.

2. Qualifications. Each member of the administrative control board

shall be a registered voter within the special service district or be an officer or

employee of Draper City.

3. Term. Board members shall be appointed to terms of four years.
In order to provide for the proper staggering of terms so that all appointments
do not expire at the same time and to provide appropriate opportunities for
involvement by a variety of interested persons, two initial membership
positions shall be for a term of two years, one initial membership position shall
be for a term of four years. Members may be appointed to successive terms
as deemed appropriate by the mayor and city council. All members shall serve
at the pleasure of the city and may be removed from office with or without
cause by a majority vote of the city council.

F. Organization and Procedure.

1. Chairperson. The mayor shall appoint a member of the board to
serve as chair to oversee the proceedings and activities of the board. The
board may elect other officers as it deems necessary.

2. Rules. The board may propose reasonable bylaws, rules and
regulations, including procurement and fiscal management procedure, to
regulate the conduct of its meetings, which bylaws, rules and regulations must
be approved and adopted by resolution of the city council before becoming
effective. All collections, investments, disbursements, procurements, and
other financial transactions will be managed by the board.

3. Meetings. The board may hold meetings at such times as the
board determines are necessary and as properly called with notices duly
provided to each board member and as required by law.

4. Compensation. Compensation of the board members shall be
set, from time to time, by resolution of the council.

5. For purposes of advising the city council and transacting the
business of the district, the board may meet and confer, adopt
recommendations and convey them to the council verbally or in writing, make
decisions regarding district matters, or it may meet with the council or any of
its members to discuss service development and delivery proposals. The
board may establish committees for the purpose of investigating preferred or
potential methods of service development and delivery.

6. Budget. The board shall prepare an annual budget for the
Traverse Ridge Special Service District which will conform to the uniform fiscal
procedures act for special districts, and approve it. The budget shall
demonstrate all proposed expenditures and the fees to be established and
collected as revenue to the district's budget.

7. The board shall have power to purchase and maintain insurance
on behalf of any person who is a director, officer, employee, or agent of the
district against any liability asserted against him or her and incurred by him or
her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or
not the district would have authority to indemnify him or her against the
liability under law.

8. The board shall make an annual presentation to the city council
of its goals, budget and activities.

3-5-110: Audit Committee:
A. Creation: There is hereby created the Draper City Audit Committee to advise the
city council on the annual audit of the city’s financial statements, and to

recommend and monitor the annual auditing functions.

B. Purpose: The audit committee shall:

1. Follow the city’s procurement code to select and engage an auditor to
audit the city's annual financial statement;
2. Provide oversight of the integrity of the city's financial statements, the

internal control over the financial reporting process, and compliance with legal and
regulatory requirements; and

3. Follow up on auditor findings and management letter comments
provided by independent auditors.

C. Members:
The audit committee shall consist of three members.
1. Two members shall be members of the city council.

2. One member shall be a financial expert, possessing:
a. An understanding of generally accepted accounting
principles and financial statements for state and local governments;
b. Experience in preparing or auditing financial statements of
comparable entities;

c. Experience in applying such principles in connection with
accounting for estimates, accruals, and allowance accounts;

d. Experience with internal accounting controls; and

e, An understanding of audit functions.
3. Term: Members of the audit committee shall be appointed by the mayor

with the advice and consent of the city council for terms of two years and may not
be appointed to more than two full consecutive terms; provided, however, that when
the audit committee is first established, the terms of the members shall be staggered
and one member shall be appointed to serve an initial term of three years.

4. Chairperson: The city council shall appoint one of the two city council
members on the audit committee as chairperson.

D. Meetings: The audit committee shall meet as often as necessary in order to
adequately advise the city council concerning selection of the external auditor,
the review of the annual financial statement audit, and other items under their
oversight.

3-5-120 Draper City Diversity and Inclusion Advisory Committee:

A. Creation: There is hereby created the Draper City Diversity and Inclusion
Advisory Committee to act as an advisory committee on identifying issues faced by
diverse groups and creating opportunities for an inclusive community within the

city.

B. Duties: It shall be the duty of the committee to act in a voluntary and advisory
Capacity to the city regarding diversity, equality and inclusivity activities within the
city, including, but not limited to:

1. Actas a liaison to inform the city of issues faced by diverse communities and
groups.

2. Advocate and voice support for initiatives that cultivate an inclusive culture
and stimulate socioeconomic equality for the greater community.

3. Create educational opportunities through guest lectures at local schools and
community workshops to raise awareness of diversity, equality and inclusivity
issues.

4. Host events for the greater community to celebrate and educate the public
about various cultures and diverse groups.
5. Assist with developing resource materials related to topics of diversity,

equality, and inclusivity for the city.

EXHIBIT C

9-4-050: APPEALS AND VARIANCE HEARING OFFICER:

A. There is hereby created and established an appeals and variance hearing officer
of Draper City to provide for just and fair treatment in the administration of the
city's zoning ordinances, in accordance with provisions of the Utah municipal land
use development and management act, set forth at Utah Code Annotated 10-9a-
101 et seq., as amended. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall have such
powers and duties as set forth below.

B. Appointment: The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall be appointed as
follows:

1. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the advice and consent of the City Council.

2. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall be appointed for a term of one
year and thereafter may be appointed for succeeding one year terms.

3. The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer shall, as a minimum, have such
training and experience as will qualify them to conduct administrative or quasi-
judicial hearings regarding land use, land development, and regulatory codes
dealing with issues related to land use.

4. The Mayor may remove the Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer for cause
upon receipt of written charges filed against the appeals and variance hearing
officer with the city manager and upon the advice and consent of the city council.
The mayor shall provide the appeals and variance hearing officer with a public
hearing if one is requested.

5. Inthe case of death, resignation, removal or disqualification, the position of
appeals and variance hearing officer shall be promptly filled by a replacement
appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the city council for the
unexpired term of the previous appeals and variance hearing officer.

6. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall be considered an independent
contractor; and as such will enter into a year long contract for services at the
beginning of each appointed term. Terms for compensation and reimbursement
will be determined and agreed upon in the aforementioned contract. The terms
and conditions of the contract shall ultimately be approved by the city council prior
to any individual entering into an agreement with the city to serve as the appeals
and variance hearing officer.

7. The mayor may, from time to time, appoint an appeals and variance hearing
officer pro tempore on a temporary basis when necessitated by the absence,

unavailability, incapacity or disqualification of the regularly appointed appeals and
variance hearing officer upon the advice and consent of the city council. Each
appeals and variance hearing officer pro tempore shall, as a minimum, have
qualifications which are similar to the regularly appointed appeals and variance
hearing officer.

C. Organization And Procedure: The appeals and variance hearing officer shall
organize and exercise its powers and duties as follows:

1. The appeals and variance hearing officer may adopt reasonable policies and
procedures in accordance with city ordinances to govern the conduct of its
meetings and hearings and for any other purposes considered necessary for the
functioning of the position of appeals and variance hearing officer. Such policies
and procedures shall be approved by the city council before taking effect.

2. The appeals and variance hearing officer shall hold meetings as needed to
consider matters within its purview under this title. The appeals and variance
hearing officer meetings shall be held on the first Wednesday after the first
Tuesday of each month and such other times deemed necessary by the appeals
and variance hearing officer. All meetings and hearings shall be properly noticed
and held in accordance with the open meetings law set forth in Utah Code
Annotated section 52-4-1 et seq., as amended. Written minutes of all meetings and
hearings of the appeals and variance hearing officer shall be prepared and filed in
the office of the city recorder for review and access by the public in accordance with
the Draper City government records access and management ordinance.

3. Decisions made by the appeals and variance hearing officer shall become
effective at the meeting or hearing in which the decision is made, unless a different
time is designated in the appeals and variance hearing officer's accepted rules or at
the time the decision is made.

D. Powers And Duties: The powers and duties of the appeals and variance hearing
officer shall be limited to the matters set forth below. Each of such powers and
duties shall be exercised pursuant to the procedural and other provisions of this
title:

1. Subject to the provisions of this chapter, hear and decide appeals from zoning
decisions of the planning commission or zoning administrator applying the
provisions of this title.

2. Hear and decide variances from the terms of this title.

3. Hear and decide appeals from decisions made by the zoning administrator
regarding chapter 6 of this title.

E. Appeals: Appeals to the appeals and variance hearing officer shall be filed in
writing with the zoning administrator within fourteen (14) days from the date of the
decision or action appealed as provided in subsection 9-5-180D1 of this title. The
officer or department from whom the appeal is taken shall forthwith transmit to
the appeals and variance hearing officer all papers constituting the record upon
which the action appealed from was taken.

F. Notice Of Hearing: The appeals and variance hearing officer shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of each appeal, give public notice thereof as well as
due notice to the parties in interest, at least ten (10) days prior to the hearing and
shall set certain other criteria as to the form of notice whether by publication,
certified mail or other criteria, reasonably designed to give notice to those parties
subject to be affected thereby.

G. Decisions Of The Appeals And Variance Hearing Officer: At the hearing of any
matter, the parties affected may appear in person with or without an attorney. The
appeals and variance hearing officer shall decide all appeals and other issues
brought before it within a reasonable time.

H. Stay Of Proceedings: An appeal to the appeals and variance hearing officer shall
not stay proceedings taken in furtherance of the action appealed from unless such
proceedings are specifically stayed by order of the zoning administrator. An
appellant may request a stay by submitting to the zoning administrator, in writing,
an application for a stay setting forth the reasons why a Stay is necessary to protect
against imminent harm. In determining whether or not to grant a stay, the zoning
administrator shall assure that all potentially affected parties are given the
opportunity to comment on the request. A ruling on the request for a stay shall be
given within five (5) days from the date the request is received by the zoning
administrator. The zoning administrator, in granting a stay, may impose additional
conditions to mitigate any potential harm that may be caused by the stay, including
requiring the appellant to post a bond. Within ten (10) days of the zoning
administrator's decision regarding the grant or denial of a stay, any aggrieved party
may appeal the decision to the appeals and variance hearing officer, whose
decision will be final.

|. Appeals From The Appeals And Variance Hearing Officer: Any person aggrieved
by a final decision of the appeals and variance hearing officer may have and
maintain a plenary action for relief therefrom in any court of competent
jurisdiction; provided, that the petition for such relief is presented to the court

within thirty (30) days from the date of the decision of the appeals and variance
hearing officer.
