                                       PLANNING DIVISION

                       PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA

                                  Wednesday, July 8, 2026 at 5:30 PM
                                        City & County Building
                                   451 South State Street, Room 326
                                       Salt Lake City, Utah 84111



MEETING PARTICIPATION

To comment during the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, please join us in person:

•   Individuals: Each person gets two (2) minutes.
•   Recognized Community Organizations: Representative gets ﬁve (5) minutes.

Note: Speakers cannot transfer their time to another person.



SUBMITTING WRITTEN COMMENTS

If you are unable to attend the meeting in person but would like to submit comments on an
agenda item, please email the staff contact listed for that speciﬁc item.

Submission Deadlines:

•   Comments must be received by 12:00 PM on the Wednesday the week before the
    meeting to be included in the Staff Report.

•   Comments received between 12:01 PM on the Wednesday the week before the
    meeting and 12:00 PM on the day of the meeting will be forwarded to the Commission
    (but not included in the Staff Report).

Note: Comments and materials received after the deadlines may not be reviewed prior to
the meeting but will be added to the ofﬁcial record. Emails received will not be read aloud
during the meeting.




SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                          1
MEETING LIVESTREAMS

The Planning Commission meeting livestream will be available on the following platform
the day of the meeting:

•   YouTube – SLC Live Meetings



BEFORE THE MEETING

DINNER – Dinner will be provided for Commissioners and Staff at 5:00 PM in Room 326.
During this time, the Commission may also receive training related to their roles and city
planning topics.



MEETING OPENING

CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL
REPORT OF THE CHAIR & VICE-CHAIR
REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR

OPEN FORUM – Commissioners may discuss general planning, zoning, or land use topics
not listed on the agenda. This discussion is limited to 10 minutes and does not include
public input.

Note: The order of agenda items may be changed at the Commission’s discretion.



CONSENT AGENDA

1. Approval of the Minutes for June 24, 2026.



REGULAR AGENDA

2. Text Amendment Regarding Community Correctional Facilities & Jails - On April 8th,
   2026, the Planning Commission initiated a petition to remove "Community Correctional
   Facilities" and "Jail" as allowed uses from the Land Use Tables in 21A.33. The
   Commission is authorized to initiate text amendments under Title 21A.50.030.
   "Community Correctional Facility" is currently listed as a Conditional Use in the M-1
   (Light Manufacturing) and MU-11 (Mixed Use District 11) Zones, and "Jail" is listed as a
   Conditional Use in the PL (Public Lands) District. The proposed amendment would



SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                         2
    remove the "C" from the land use tables found in 21A.33 and would make these uses
    prohibited. These amendments also remove section 21A.36.100: Community
    Correctional Facilities. Related provisions of Title 21A may also be amended as part of
    this petition. This petition would not impact lands owned by the United States Federal
    Government or land owned by the State of Utah. This would strictly apply to uses on
    private property that ﬁt the deﬁnition of "Community Correctional Facility" and "Jail".
    (Staff Contact: Cassie Younger at 801-535-6211 or cassie.younger@slc.gov) Petition
    Number: PLNPCM2026-00384

3. Zoning Map Amendment at Approximately 1379 and 1395 W Van Buren and 1384 W
   Harris - The applicant, Jonathan Marsh, is requesting the above listed properties be
   rezoned from R-1/7,000 (single-family residential) to RMF-30 (low-density multi-family)
   in order to build medium density, for-sale, affordable housing. Currently, 1379 W Van
   Buren has a single-family home on it and it is proposed to remain. Consideration may
   be given to rezoning the property to another zoning district with similar
   characteristics. The subject property is located within Council District 2, represented
   by Alejandro Puy. (Staff Contact: Ben Buckley at 801-535-7142 or
   Benjamin.buckley@slc.gov) Petition Number: PLNPCM2026-00369



RECORDS: For Planning Commission agendas, minutes, staff reports, and YouTube recordings, visit
www.slc.gov/pc. Staff Reports will be posted the Friday prior to the meeting and minutes will be posted
two days after they are approved, which usually occurs at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Planning Commission.

ACCESSIBILITY: The City & County Building is an accessible facility. You may make requests for
reasonable accommodations, which may include alternate formats, interpreters, and other auxiliary aids
and services. Please make requests at least two business days in advance. To make a request, please
contact the Planning Division Office at planningadmin@slc.gov or (801) 535-7757.

ACCESIBILIDAD: El edificio de la Ciudad y el Condado es una instalación accesible. Puede solicitar
adaptaciones razonables, que pueden incluir formatos alternativos, intérpretes y otras ayudas y servicios
auxiliares. Por favor, realice su solicitud con al menos dos días hábiles de anticipación. Para hacer una
solicitud, comuníquese con la Oficina de la División de Planificación en planningadmin@slc.gov o al (801)
535-7757.




SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                        3
