                               Staff Report                                  PLANNING DIVISION
                                            DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY and NEIGHBORHOODS


To:        Salt Lake City Planning Commission
From:      Cassie Younger, Senior Planner, cassie.younger@slc.gov
Date:      July 8, 2026
Re:        PLNPCM2026-00384 Text Amendment regarding Community Correctional
           Facilities and Jails



               Zoning Text Amendment
PROPERTY ADDRESS: Citywide
MASTER PLAN: Plan Salt Lake
ZONING DISTRICT: MU-11 Mixed Use District 11, & M-1 Light Manufacturing, and PL Public
                Lands
REQUEST:
On April 8th, 2026, the Planning Commission initiated a petition to remove “Community
Correctional Facilities” and “Jail” as allowed uses from the Land Use Tables in 21A.33. The
Commission is authorized to initiate text amendments under Title 21A.50.030. “Community
Correctional Facility” is currently listed as a Conditional Use in the M-1 (Light Manufacturing)
and MU-11 (Mixed Use District 11) Zones, and “Jail” is listed as a Conditional Use in the PL (Public
Lands) District. The proposed amendment would remove the “C” from the land use tables found
in 21A.33 and would make these uses prohibited. These amendments also remove section
21A.36.100: Community Correctional Facilities. This petition would not impact lands owned by
the United States Federal Government or land owned by the State of Utah. This would strictly
apply to uses on private property that fit the definition of “Community Correctional Facility” and
“Jail”.

RECOMMENDATION:

Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council
ATTACHMENTS:

   A. ATTACHMENT A: Petition Initiation
   B. ATTACHMENT B: Vicinity Maps
   C. ATTACHMENT C: Proposed Text Amendments
   D. ATTACHMENT D: Zoning Text Amendment Factors
   E. ATTACHMENT E: Public Process & Comments
   F. ATTACHMENT F: Department Review Comments


PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                          July 8, 2026
                                                 1
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Background
On March 25, 2026, the Planning Commission discussed options for a potential text amendment
to restrict the opening of immigration detention facilities in Salt Lake City. Since Federal and State
owned lands are not subject to local zoning, the term “Community Correctional Facilities” was
identified as the closest definition applicable to privately operated facilities and prisons.
On April 8 2026, the Planning Commission voted to initiate a petition to remove Community
Correctional Facilities as a conditional use from the land use tables. In further review, Staff added
“Jail” to the list to be removed from the PL (Public Lands) Zone, which is also listed as a
Conditional Use. These amendments also delete subsection 21A.36.110, regarding Community
Correctional Facility General Provisions.
There are currently no private correctional facilities or jails in Salt Lake City. There are three
correctional facilities in Salt Lake City run by the Department of Corrections on State owned land:
Fortitude Treatment Center, Bonneville Correction Center, and Orange Street Community
Correctional Facility. These three facilities account for approximately 60% of beds for community
correctional facilities that are operated by the Utah Department of Corrections.
Amendment Details
The use of “Community Correctional Facility, small” (up to 30 beds) is currently listed as a
Conditional Use in the M-1 (Light Manufacturing ) and MU-11 (Mixed Use District 11) zones.
“Community Correctional Facilities, large” (over 30 beds) are only listed as a Conditional Use in
the M-1 district west of I-215. Neither size is permitted within a ½ mile of any residential district.
Both sizes have further restrictions on location, site design, and operational limits that are
outlined in 21A.36.110.
The proposed amendment removes the “Community Correctional Facility” as a Conditional Use
under MU-11 and M-1 Districts, but the use would remain listed in the table. The proposed
amendment would apply to both “Community Correctional Facility, small” and “Community
Correctional Facility, large”. The relevant footnotes would also be removed.
Subsection 21A.36.110 outlines General Provisions related to Community Correctional Facilities.
This entire section is proposed to be deleted. Since Community Correctional Facilities will not be
allowed in any zoning district within the City. Therefore, the standards are no longer relevant.
Similarly, the land use of “Jail” would be removed as Conditional Use from the PL (Public Lands)
district, while remaining listed.
For “Jail”, “Community Correctional facility, small” and “Community Correctional Facility, large”,
their definitions under 21A.62.040 would remain as is.
The Text Amendment Draft can be found in Attachment C.


APPROVAL PROCESS AND COMMISSION AUTHORITY
The City Council has the final decision-making authority on all zoning amendments. The zoning
ordinance authorizes the Planning Commission to make recommendations to the City Council on
zoning amendments. The Planning Commission may provide a positive or negative
PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                           July 8, 2026
                                                  2
recommendation for the proposal and can request that changes be made to the proposal. The
recommendation and any requested changes will be sent to the City Council, who will hold a
briefing and additional public hearing on the proposed changes. The City Council may make
modifications to the proposal and approve or decline to approve the proposed changes. If
ultimately approved by the City Council, the changes would be incorporated into the City Zoning
code.

KEY CONSIDERATIONS
The key considerations listed below were identified through the analysis of the project:
   1. How the Proposal Helps Implement City Goals & Policies Identified in Adopted Plans
   2. State Code and how this amendment applies
   3. Definitions: Distinction with Group Home
Consideration 1: How the Proposal Helps Implement City Goals & Policies Identified in
                 Adopted Plans

Plan Salt Lake (2015)
The following policies outlined in Plan Salt Lake support this amendment:
Neighborhoods
   •     Create a safe and convenient place for people to carry out their daily lives
   •     Support neighborhood identity and diversity
Equity
   •     Recognize and advocate for the rights of all residents and visitors
   •     Be among the most inclusive, welcoming, and dynamic cities
   •     Collaborate with the private sector to combat discrimination and ensure safe and equal
         access
   •     Educate the public on the importance of nondiscrimination, equity, and respect
Water Conservation and Land Use Planning
   •     Review allowed land uses in the zoning code and consider prohibiting land uses that
         consume large amounts of water


Not permitting the use of Community Correctional Facilities and Jails further reinforces the City’s
Equity goals, which aim to foster an inclusive, welcoming environment for its citizens, free from
discrimination and ensuring equal access. The removal of these uses helps create a safe
environment for people to carry out their daily lives. Additionally, it helps conserve city resources
due to the large amounts of water that these facilities consume.
In addition, Salt Lake City is already home to the majority of state prison beds and state
community correction facility beds. The population of Salt Lake City is about 6% of the population
of the state, but the city is home to more than 2/3rds of all state prison beds and about 60% of all
beds in state community correction facilities.




PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                           July 8, 2026
                                                   3
Consideration 2: State Code and how this amendment applies

The Federal Government and the State of Utah are not subject to local zoning laws. Therefore, if
the property is owned by either of these two entities, the property is exempt from Salt Lake City
zoning. This amendment would only apply to private property owners, including those who may
contract or lease with State or Federal governments to run correctional facilities or jails.
Utah State Code 64-13d allows for the Department of Corrections to enter into contracts with
private contractors for private correctional facilities. As stated in this code:

(2) Before entering into a contract, the department shall:

     (a) hold a public hearing within the county or municipality where the facility is to be sited
         for the purpose of obtaining public comment;

     (b) give consideration to the input received at the public hearing when making decisions
         regarding the awarding of a contract and the contract process; and

     (c) have received written notification from the legislative body of the municipality or county
         where the proposed facility is to be sited, stating that the legislative body has agreed to
         the establishment of the facility within its boundaries.

By having the uses Correctional Facility and Jails as Conditional or Permitted uses in the land use
tables, it could be interpreted as the Council already having “agreed” to the establishment of
private prisons in the city. Removing the Conditional and Permitted allowances in the table, while
keeping the Land Use definition in the table, eliminates this potential interpretation.


Consideration 3: Definition distinction between Group Home

At the April 8 Planning Commission meeting, the distinction between Correctional Facilities and
Group Homes was discussed, as both definitions mention the term “halfway house”. Although the
definition of Correctional Facilities includes halfway houses and other treatment facilities, in
practice, these have been categorized as “Dwelling, Group Home (large and small)”, and are still
permitted in many residential zones. Group homes exist throughout the city, in many different
zoning districts. Group homes require a license by the State of Utah under Title 26B (formerly
title 62A). These types of facilities are managed by the Department of Health and Human
Services, rather than the Department of Corrections, which manages Community Correctional
Facilities. The proposed text amendment does not make any changes to the use of Group Homes
in the City and has no impact on the potential to locate future group homes in the city.


The definitions for these uses are as follows:

COMMUNITY CORRECTIONAL FACILITY: An institutional facility licensed by or contracted by the
state of Utah to provide temporary occupancy for previously incarcerated persons or parole violators,
which assists such persons in making a transition from a correctional institution environment to
independent living. Such facility may also provide ancillary, temporary occupancy for individuals
placed as part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in a correctional institution. A

PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                                 July 8, 2026
                                                     4
community correctional facility may include a halfway house, work release center or any other
domiciliary facility for persons released from any penal or correctional facility but still in the custody of
the city, county or public agency and youth care centers or other facilities authorized to accept youth
offenders. A community correctional facility includes a facility for the judicially required detention or
incarceration of people who are under twenty four (24) hour supervision by sworn officers except when
on an approved leave, confinement of offenders where force may be used to restrain them if they
attempt to leave the institution without authorization, twenty four (24) hour supervision and
confinement for youth offenders committed to the division for custody and rehabilitation, or services
for parole violating offenders and/or noncompliant probationers.

DWELLING, GROUP HOME (LARGE): A residential treatment facility, occupied by seven (7) or more
individuals, licensed by the State of Utah under title 62A, chapter 2 of the Utah Code or its successor
that provides a twenty four (24) hour group living environment for individuals unrelated to the owner
or provider that offers room or board and specialized treatment, behavior modification, rehabilitation,
discipline, emotional growth, or habilitation services for persons with emotional, psychological,
developmental, or behavioral dysfunctions, impairments, or chemical dependencies. A group home
dwelling includes a recovery residence, but does not include a boarding school or foster home as
defined in title 62A, chapter 2 of the Utah Code or its successor, or a residential support dwelling as
defined in this chapter.

DWELLING, GROUP HOME (SMALL): A residential treatment facility, occupied by two (2) to six (6)
individuals, licensed by the State of Utah under title 62A, chapter 2 of the Utah Code or its successor
that provides a twenty four (24) hour group living environment for individuals unrelated to the owner
or provider that offers room or board and specialized treatment, behavior modification, rehabilitation,
discipline, emotional growth, or habilitation services for persons with emotional, psychological,
developmental, or behavioral dysfunctions, impairments, or chemical dependencies. A group home
dwelling includes a recovery residence, but does not include a boarding school or foster home as
defined in title 62A, chapter 2 of the Utah Code or its successor, or a residential support dwelling as
defined in this chapter.



NEXT STEPS
Approval of the Request
The City Council has the final decision-making authority on all zoning amendments. The zoning
ordinance authorizes the Planning Commission to make recommendations to the City Council on
zoning amendments. The Planning Commission may provide a positive or negative
recommendation for the proposal and can request that changes be made to the proposal. The
recommendation and any changes requested will be sent to the City Council, who will hold a
briefing and additional public hearing on the proposed changes. The City Council may make
modifications to the proposal and approve or decline to approve the proposed changes. If
ultimately approved by the City Council, the changes would be incorporated into the City Zoning
code.
Denial of the Text Amendment Request
Denial of the request would result in no changes to the zoning code.




PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                                  July 8, 2026
                                                     5
ATTACHMENT A: Petition Initiation




PLNPCM2026-00384                    July 8, 2026
                    6
                                 Staff Report                                     PLANNING DIVISION
                                               DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY and NEIGHBORHOODS


To:         Salt Lake City Planning Commission
From:       Nick Norris, Planning Director
Date:       April 8, 2026
Re:         Petition Initiation regarding removing “Community Correctional Facilities” as an
            allowed land use in Title 21A Zoning



                         Petition Initiation
REQUEST:
A request by the Planning Commission to initiate a text amendment removing community
correction facilities as an allowed use in Title 21A Zoning.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
In February the Planning Commission voted to add a petition initiation to a future agenda to
address detention centers located in Salt Lake City. At the March 25, 2026 meeting, planning
staff were asked about the status of doing research on the scope of such a text amendment and its
application to federal and state-owned lands. The discussion focused on the “community
Correctional Facility land use as defined in Title 21A Zoning. The commission specifically asked
about addressing this land use in a potential text amendment.
A community correctional facility is defined as:
        An institutional facility licensed by or contracted by the state of Utah to provide
        temporary occupancy for previously incarcerated persons or parole violators, which
        assists such persons in making a transition from a correctional institution environment
        to independent living. Such facility may also provide ancillary, temporary occupancy
        for individuals placed as part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment
        in a correctional institution. A community correctional facility may include a halfway
        house, work release center or any other domiciliary facility for persons released from
        any penal or correctional facility but still in the custody of the city, county or public
        agency and youth care centers or other facilities authorized to accept youth offenders.
        A community correctional facility includes a facility for the judicially required detention
        or incarceration of people who are under twenty four (24) hour supervision by sworn
        officers except when on an approved leave, confinement of offenders where force may
        be used to restrain them if they attempt to leave the institution without authorization,
        twenty four (24) hour supervision and confinement for youth offenders committed to
        the division for custody and rehabilitation, or services for parole violating offenders
        and/or noncompliant probationers.
The land use is categorized as either a small facility, with 30 beds or less, or a large facility with
more than 30 beds. The land use is only allowed in the MU-11 and M-1 zoning districts. The use


                                                    7
is further restricted by not being allowed within ½ mile of any residential zoning district. This
prohibition eliminates the land use in most MU-11 zoning districts, with about a two block area
near 400 South and 400 West and some areas between 1-15 and 900 West that are south of 1700
South being more than ½ mile from a residential zone.
State code 10-20-305 states that nothing in 10-20 (Municipal Land Use, Development, and
Management Act) may be construed as giving a municipality jurisdiction over property owned by
the state of Utah or the United States. This means that unless specifically stated, local zoning
regulations do not apply to lands owned by the state or the United States. Based on the definition
in city code and this provision in Utah Code, the city’s zoning regulations would apply to any non-
state or non-federal government entity operating a community correction facility in Utah.
Utah Code 64-13d regulates private correction facilities in Utah. It authorizes the Utah
Department of Corrections to enter private contracts for a private correction facility. However,
before entering a contract it requires the department to:
   •   Hold a public hearing in the city or county where the facility is proposed to be located;
   •   Considers public input received during the public hearing prior to finalizing the contract;
       and
   •   Requires the department to receive written notification from the legislative body of the
       city stating that the city has agreed to the establishment of the facility within the city
       boundaries.
Given the requirement that the City Council agree to the establishment of a private correction
facility, having the land use as an allowed land use in the land use tables could be viewed as the
city council having already agreed to the establishment of a private prison in the city by adopting
the land use tables with the use listed as an allowed use. Removing the use as an allowed use in
the land use tables would eliminate that possibility.
There are currently no private correctional facilities in Utah. The Utah Department of Corrections
operates two prisons in Utah and six community correction facilities, three of which are in Salt
Lake City. The three facilities in SLC are:
   •   Fortitude Treatment Center; located at 1747 South 900 West with a capacity of up to 300
       beds.
   •   Bonneville Correction Center; located at 1141 South 2475 West with a capacity of 74 beds.
   •   Orange Street Community Correctional Facility; located at 80 South Orange Street (1900
       West) with a capacity of 60 beds for women.
These three community correctional facilities account for about 60% of all the community
correctional beds in the state that are operated by the Utah Department of Corrections. In
addition, the Utah State Prison accounts for 2/3rds of all state prison beds in Utah.
To initiate the petition, a commissioner must make a motion and that motion than must be seconded
by another commissioner. After that, a majority of the commission members present must vote to
initiate the petition.




                                                8
ATTACHMENT B: Vicinity Maps




PLNPCM2026-00384              July 8, 2026
                   9
                 Map showing where Small Community Correction Facilities are allowed as a Conditional Use
               (within MU-11 and M-1 zones but not within ½ mile of residential districts). Large facilities would
                                                only be allowed west of I-215


PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                                                     January 12, 2022
                                                               10
                   Map showing where Jails are a Conditional Use (PL Public Lands Zone)




PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                          July 8, 2026
                                                     11
ATTACHMENT C: Proposed Text
              Amendments

Underlined text is new; text with strikethrough is proposed to be deleted. Modifications made as part
of the Planning Commission recommendation are highlighted in yellow. All other text is existing with
no proposed change.

21A.33.030 Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses for Mixed Use Districts



 Use                                                 Permitted and Conditional Uses by District

                                                     MU-2       MU-3        MU-5        MU-6      MU-8       MU-11

 Community correctional facility, small                                                                      C9

 9. Prohibited within ½ mile of any residential zoning district and subject to Section 21A.36.110. Reserved


        21A.33.040 Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses for Manufacturing Districts


 Use                                                 Permitted And Conditional Uses By District

                                                     M-1                          M-2                M-1A

 Community correctional facility, large              C8,16


 Community correctional facility, small              C8,16

8. A community correctional facility is considered an institutional use and any such facility located within the
AFPP Airport Flight Path Protection Overlay District is subject to the land use and sound attenuation standards
for institutional uses of the applicable Airport Influence Zone within Section 21A.34.040 of this title. Reserved.
16. Prohibited within ½ mile of any Residential Zoning District and subject to Section 21A.36.110 of this title.
Reserved.




PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                                  January 12, 2022
                                                       12
        21A.33.070: Table of Permitted and Conditional Uses for Special Purpose Districts


 Use    Permitted And Conditional Uses By District


        RP     BP     FP    AG     AG-2      AG-5      OS    NOS      A    PL     PL-2      I     UI     MH    EI

 Jail                                                                      C




21A.36.110: COMMUNITY CORRECTIONAL FACILITY: Reserved

  A. Purpose Statement: The purpose of this section is to permit the establishment of a
"community correctional facility" as defined in chapter 21A.62 of this title, subject to the
provisions of this section that provide a community involvement process and site selection
criteria to address the health and safety of the community including neighboring properties and
facility residents.
  B. State And City Licensing: No community correctional facility shall be established, operated
or maintained within the city without a valid license or operating contract issued by the Utah
state division of licensing or department of corrections or other appropriate state agency, and
without obtaining a Salt Lake City business license. For types of uses that do not require a state
license, the applicant shall provide evidence from the state of Utah indicating that the state does
not require a license for the particular facility.
  C. Small Community Correctional Facility Authorized As Conditional Use: A "small
community correctional facility" means a "community correctional facility" as defined in chapter
21A.62 of this title that provides temporary occupancy for up to thirty (30) individuals exclusive
of staff. Small community correctional facilities, as either principal or accessory uses, may be
allowed as a conditional use, pursuant to the provisions of chapter 21A.54 of this title, pursuant
to subsections B, E and F of this section and pursuant to sections 21A.33.030 and 21A.33.040 of
this title.
  D. Large Community Correctional Facility Authorized As Conditional Use: A "large
community correctional facility" means a "community correctional facility" as defined in chapter
21A.62 of this title that provides temporary occupancy for more than thirty (30) individuals
exclusive of staff. Large community correctional facilities, as either principal or accessory uses,
may be allowed as a conditional use, pursuant to the provisions of chapter 21A.54 of this title,
and pursuant to subsections B, E and F of this section and pursuant to section 21A.33.040 of
this title.
  E. Community Correctional Facility Authorized As Conditional Use: Community correctional
facilities, as either principal or accessory uses, may be allowed as a conditional use, pursuant to
the provisions of chapter 21A.54 of this title, pursuant to this subsection and subsections B, C,
and F of this section, and pursuant to sections 21A.33.030 and 21A.33.040 of this title, subject
to the following requirements and provisions:
    1. Program Description Required: The applicant must provide a detailed description of the
treatment program, operations, management and security plans of the facility, with the amount
of information satisfactory to the planning director, which clearly indicate that the facility will
operate as a "community correctional facility" as defined in chapter 21A.62 of this title and
consistent with the purpose statement in this section.
    2. Site Selection Standards:
      a. A small community correctional facility shall not be located within one-half (1/2) mile
of any residential zoning district boundary.


PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                                July 8, 2026
                                                  13
      b. A large community correctional facility shall only be located within an M-1 light
industrial zoning district and be located west of Interstate 215. A large community correctional
facility shall not be located within one-half (1/2) mile of any residential zoning district
boundary.
      c. Each community correctional facility shall not be closer than one-half (1/2) mile from
any other community correctional facility.
      d. No community correctional facility shall be located within one-half (1/2) mile of any
public or private K - 12 school, place of worship, public library, nursery school as a principal not
ancillary or accessory use or children's daycare center as a principal not ancillary or accessory
use, publicly owned playground or park. The establishment of such land uses within the
specified spacing criteria after the occupancy of a community correctional facility shall not
create nonconformity or be the sole cause for denial of a conditional use permit for the
expansion of an existing authorized facility.
      e. Spacing requirements are measured in a straight line at the closest point from property
line to property line.
      f. The site has reasonable access to transit.
    3. Site Design Standards: The applicant shall provide site plan and conditional use
application information that evidences that adequate setbacks and buffers between the property
lines and any structures or fenced compounds enclosing usable areas of the facility are provided.
Additional setbacks and buffer areas may be established by the planning commission to mitigate
any determined potential impacts. Additional setback for buffer areas may include visitor
parking, landscaping, storm drain detention basins exclusive of required landscaped setbacks.
Any required fencing or walls as a condition of approval must be nonclimbable fencing or walls
of a design approved as part of the conditional use approval.
    4. Operational Limits:
      a. A community correctional facility may provide ancillary, temporary occupancy for
individuals placed as part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment as such
ancillary, temporary occupancy is described in section 21A.62.040 of this title. A community
correctional facility's ancillary population shall remain less than twenty five percent (25%) of the
facility's entire resident population.
      b. Community correctional facilities are for temporary occupancy. Residents shall not
reside for a period greater than thirty six (36) months, excluding ancillary residents who shall
not reside for a period greater than six (6) months.
  F. Conditions Of Approval: An applicant's failure to comply with the conditions of the
conditional use approval or with any standards provided herein shall be grounds for revocation,
suspension or modification of the conditions or the approval by the planning commission.
Following the planning commission approval of a conditional use for a community correctional
facility, the applicant shall submit to the planning director the most current operational and
incident reports submitted to the state department of corrections every twelve (12) months. In
addition to the state reports the applicant shall describe the effectiveness of any impact
mitigation strategies required as part of the conditional use approval.
  G. Authority To Modify Regulations: In approving any community correctional facility, the
Planning Commission may change, alter, modify or waive any provisions of this section as they
apply to the proposed development. No such change, alteration, modification or waiver shall be
approved unless the Planning Commission finds that the proposed development:
    1. Will support the reconstruction and reuse of an existing structure and site in a manner
that will not violate the purposes of the standards for which a community correctional facility
may be approved pursuant to this section. (Ord. 66-13, 2013: Ord. 2-09 § 1, 2009)




PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                          July 8, 2026
                                                 14
ATTACHMENT D: Zoning Text Amendment
              Factors
21A.50.050.A: A decision to amend the text of this title or the zoning map by general amendment
is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the city council and is not controlled by any one
standard. In making a decision to amend the zoning map, the City Council should consider the
following:



 1. Whether a proposed text amendment is consistent with the purposes, goals,
    objectives, and policies of the city as stated through its various adopted planning
    documents;

 Finding: Consistent

 Discussion:
 The text amendment is consistent with the goals and policies outlined in Plan Salt Lake. The
 removal of these uses promotes the safety and welfare of the city and its residents. The goals of
 the city are to remain an inclusive, welcoming community that respects the values and rights
 of all its residents. Please see Consideration #1 of this staff report for further information on
 the applicable adopted policies.

 2. Whether a proposed text amendment furthers the applicable purpose statements
    of the zoning ordinance.

 Finding: Generally, furthers the purpose statements.

 Discussion:

 Zoning Ordinance Purpose Statement
 21A.02.030: Purpose and Intent:
 The purpose of the zoning ordinance is to promote the health, safety, morals, convenience,
 order, prosperity, and welfare of the present and future inhabitants of Salt Lake City, to
 implement the adopted plans of the city, and, in addition:
  A. Lessen congestion in the streets or roads;
  B. Secure safety from fire and other dangers;
  C. Provide adequate light and air;
  D. Classify land uses and distribute land development and utilization;
  E. Protect the tax base;
  F. Secure economy in governmental expenditures;
  G. Foster the city's industrial, business, and residential development; and
  H. Protect the environment.

 This amendment would promote the zoning purpose statement by promoting the safety and
 welfare of the present and future inhabitants of Salt Lake City.



PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                               July 8, 2026
                                                   15
 3. Whether a proposed text amendment is consistent with the purposes and
    provisions of any applicable overlay zoning districts which may impose
    additional standards;

 Finding: Consistent

 Discussion:
 Overlays present over M-1, MU-11 and PL zones:

       •   Inland Port Overlay
       •   Mixed Use Transitional Overlay
       •   Airport Flight Path Overlay
       •   Groundwater Source Protection Overlay
       •   Historic Preservation Overlay

 An Overlay District is intended to provide supplemental regulations or standards pertaining to
 specific geographic features or land uses, wherever these are located, in addition to "base" or
 underlying zoning district regulations applicable within a designated area. The proposed
 amendment deletes specific uses from the land use table so they would no longer be allowed
 within City limits. Therefore, all Overlays would not apply or affect the removal of these land
 uses.

 4. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
    professional practices of urban planning and design.

 Finding: Implements best practices

 Discussion: There are no APA Policy guidelines related to Correctional Facilities or Jails.

 An APA Policy document from 2005, regarding “Security” states:
 “The security threats posed by crimes and natural disasters are much more frequent and
 widespread. Too much emphasis on any one of these hazards can lead to a misallocation of
 resources and the degradation of both the built and natural environments. In addressing most
 security threats, communities can often follow established planning policies and standards,
 such as visual openness, eyes on the street, defensible spaces, Crime Prevention through
 Environmental Design (CPTED), and SafeScape. […]At the same time, security needs should
 not unduly take away resources that are essential for other crucial social, economic, and
 physical programs. At all levels of government, the distribution of security funding should be
 based upon an appropriate risk assessment methodology.
 As Americans and as members of the planning profession we assert the principle that efforts to
 ensure a community's safety and security should not undermine civil liberties.
 […]
 Security design can and should protect the public in a manner that preserves the integrity of
 our buildings, public spaces, and communities, while demonstrating the values of an open and
 accessible society.”

 The guidelines emphasize the importance of crime prevention through a variety of techniques
 within the built environment, rather than focusing on land uses or measures that have
 adverse effects on the physical, social, economic, and civic life of our communities.



PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                       July 8, 2026
                                               16
 5. The impact that the proposed text amendment may have on city resources
    necessary to carry out the provisions and processes required by this title.

 Finding: See discussion.

 Discussion:
 Community Correctional facilities and Jails have great impacts on infrastructure and resources,
 including water, sewer, and stormwater capacity. Additionally, increased traffic and air quality could
 be affected by these facilities in the City. Prohibiting these uses would ensure that our City resources
 are not strained by these types of facilities.

 6. The impact that the proposed text amendment may have on other properties that
    would be subject to the proposal and properties adjacent to subject properties.

 Finding: See discussion.

 Discussion: The proposed text amendments would only apply to the subject properties in
 Attachment B. The amendment prohibits impactful land uses, which would not negatively
 affect surrounding properties.

 7. The community benefits that would result from the proposed text amendment, as
    identified in 21A.50.050.C.

 Finding: Not applicable.

 Discussion: The Community Benefit standard within the zoning amendment code only
 applies to private property owners. Since this is a city-initiated petition by the Planning
 Commission, providing a community benefit is not required.




PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                               July 8, 2026
                                                    17
ATTACHMENT E: Public Process &
              Comments
Public Notice, Meetings, Comments

The following is a list of public meetings that have been held, and other public input opportunities,
related to the proposed project since the applications were submitted:
   •   May 14, 2026 – All Recognized Community Councils were sent a 45 day required notice.
       No Council provided comments.
   •   May – June 2026 – The project was posted to the Online Open House webpage.
Notice of the public hearing for the proposal included:
   •   June 25, 2026
          o Public hearing notice signs were posted at the Main Library, Northwest Recreation
              Center and Day-Riverside Library
          o Public notice posted on City and State websites and Planning Division list serve

Public Input:

No public input was received on the petition.




PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                          July 8, 2026
                                                  18
ATTACHMENT F: Department Review
              Comments
This proposal was reviewed by the following departments. Any requirement identified by a City
Department is required to be complied with.

Engineering:

No comments

Transportation:

Transportation has no concerns with the proposed text amendment.

Fire:

No comments related to the proposed text amendment

Building:

No Building Code comments in regard to the text amendment

Urban Forestry:

Urban Forestry has no concerns with this proposal as long as it does not affect our ability
to maintain the street tree code requirements.

Airport:
The airport has no objection to the amendment.

Police:

No public safety concerns

Public Utilities:

PU has no comments on this petition.




PLNPCM2026-00384                                                                         July 8, 2026
                                                 19
