                                       PLANNING DIVISION
                        PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA

                              Wednesday, January 28, 2026 at 5:30 PM
                                     City & County Building
                                451 South State Street, Room 326
                                    Salt Lake City, Utah 84111



MEETING PARTICIPATION

To comment during the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, please join us in person:

    •   Individuals: Each person gets two (2) minutes.
    •   Recognized Community Organizations: Representative gets five (5) minutes.

Note: Speakers cannot transfer their time to another person.



SUBMITTING WRITTEN COMMENTS

If you are unable to attend the meeting in person but would like to submit comments on an
agenda item, please email the staff contact listed for that specific item.

Submission Deadlines:

    •   To be included in the Staff Report: Comments must be received by 12:00 PM on the
        Wednesday the week before the meeting.

    •   To be forwarded to the Commission (but not included in the Staff Report):
        Comments received between 12:01 PM on the Wednesday the week before the
        meeting and 12:00 PM on the day of the meeting.

Note: Comments and materials received after the deadlines may not be reviewed prior to
the meeting but will be added to the official record. Emails received will not be read aloud
during the meeting.




SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                           1
MEETING LIVESTREAMS

The Planning Commission meeting livestream will be available on the following platform
the day of the meeting:

    •   YouTube – SLC Live Meetings



BEFORE THE MEETING

DINNER – Dinner will be provided for Commissioners and Staff at 5:00 PM in Room 326.
During this time, the Commission may also receive training related to their roles and city
planning topics.



MEETING OPENING

CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL
REPORT OF THE CHAIR & VICE-CHAIR
REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR

OPEN FORUM – Commissioners may discuss general planning, zoning, or land use topics
not listed on the agenda. This discussion is limited to 10 minutes and does not include
public input.

Note: The order of agenda items may be changed at the Commission’s discretion.



CONSENT AGENDA

1. Approval of the Minutes

2. Preliminary Subdivision and Planned Development at Approximately 344 W 400 N
   (Public Hearing) – Greg Walker, with WOW Atelier LLC, representing the property
   owner, is requesting Preliminary Subdivision and Planned Development approval to
   develop two twin homes on the four lots at the above-listed address. The site is 0.43
   acres (18,730 square feet) in size. All four lots propose a primary dwelling with an
   attached two-car garage, and an accessory dwelling unit above the garage on each lot.
   The subject property is in the SR-1A (Special Development Pattern Residential) zoning
   district.
   A. Preliminary Subdivision: Requesting to subdivide the subject property into four
       lots. Case Number: PLNPCM2025-00671



SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                         2
    B. Planned Development: Lots 2 & 3 will not have public street frontage. Lot 1 will need
        a modification to the lot width requirement from 25' to 24.5'. Case Number:
        PLNPCM2025-00670
    The subject property is located in Council District 3, represented by Chris Wharton.
    (Staff Contact: Diana Martinez at 801-535-7215 or diana.martinez@slc.gov)




REGULAR AGENDA

3. Rezone for Mansell Manor at Approximately 1726 Jefferson St, 1750 Jefferson Cir,
   and 1790 S West Temple Street– The Housing Authority of Salt Lake City is requesting
   a Zoning Map Amendment for 1726 Jefferson Street and a portion of 1750 Jefferson Cir
   and 1790 S West Temple St. Currently, the land is used for storage, offices, and housing.
   The current zoning of the properties is MU-11 (Mixed-Use 11), MU-8 (Mixed-Use 8), and
   RMF-35 (Moderate Density Multifamily Residential) . The applicant is seeking to rezone
   the properties to MU-5 (Mixed-Use 5). Although the applicant has requested that the
   property be rezoned to the MU-5 zone, consideration may be given to rezoning the
   property to another zoning district with similar characteristics. There are currently
   twenty residential units on the property. The subject property is located within Council
   District 5, represented by Erika Carlsen. (Staff Contact: Cassie Younger at 801-535-6211
   or cassie.younger@slc.gov) Case Number: PLNPCM2025-00690

4. Northwest Community Plan Update – Mayor Mendenhall has initiated a petition to
   complete a comprehensive update to the Northwest Community Plan. The
   Northwest Community Plan is a land use plan for the land that is generally located
   between I-15 and the Salt Lake International Airport, with the city boundary to the
   north and I-80 to the south. The Northwest Community Plan was originally adopted
   in 1992. The updated plan will provide guidance on existing and anticipated
   development in the Rose Park, Fairpark, Jordan Meadows, Poplar Grove, and
   Westpointe neighborhoods, for the next 15 years. The plan also includes the North
   Temple Station Area Plans for the four TRAX Stations within the Plan area. The
   Northwest Community is located in Council Districts 1 and 2, represented by
   Victoria Petro and Alejandro Puy. (Staff Contact: Cassie Younger at 801-535-6211 or
   at cassie.younger@slc.gov) Case Number PLNPCM2025-00773



WORK SESSIONS

5. Capitol Hill Community Plan Update – This work session is intended to provide a
   briefing and update on the process of updating the Capitol Hill Community Plan,
   including an overview of the existing conditions for the community and a summary of
   the public input received so far. The Capitol Hill Community Plan establishes land use
   and growth-related policies for the area and will be used to help guide zoning,



SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                        3
    transportation, housing, and other growth-related decisions. (Staff contact: Brooke
    Olson at 801-535-7118 or brooke.olson@slc.gov)



RECORDS: For Planning Commission agendas, minutes, staff reports, and YouTube recordings, visit
www.slc.gov/pc. Staff Reports will be posted the Friday prior to the meeting and minutes will be posted
two days after they are approved, which usually occurs at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Planning Commission.




SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                      4
