                             Staff Report                                 PLANNING DIVISION
                                           DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY and NEIGHBORHOODS


To:        Salt Lake City Planning Commission
From:      Jason Berntson, Associate Planner, jason.berntson@slc.gov, 801-535-6247
Date:      June 24, 2026 (hearing), June 11, 2026 (publication)
Re:        PLNPCM2025-01180 – Affordable Housing Incentives Fines Zoning Text
           Amendment

                   Zoning Text Amendment
APPLICATION TYPE:            Zoning Text Amendment
MASTER PLAN:                 City Wide
ZONING DISTRICT:             City Wide
ORDINANCE SECTION:           Chapter 21A.20.040 Civil Fines

REQUEST:

Mayor Erin Mendenhall has initiated a petition for a text amendment to add the fines for
violation of the City’s Affordable Housing Incentives (AHI) program into the City’s Zoning Code.
Currently, the Zoning Code refers to the City’s “Consolidated Fee Schedule” (CFS) for the fine,
but that document legally cannot list fines. This text amendment will remove reference to the
CFS and add the associated fines directly into Chapter 21A.20 “Enforcement” of the city zoning
code. The proposal applies to any property utilizing the City’s Affordable Housing Incentives
program.

RECOMMENDATION:

Based on the findings listed in this staff report and the standards for the zoning text
amendment, Planning Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive
recommendation to the City Council regarding this proposal.

ATTACHMENTS:
   A. ATTACHMENT A: Petition Initiation
   B. ATTACHMENT B: Proposed Amendment
   C. ATTACHMENT C: Text Amendment Consideration Standards
   D. ATTACHMENT D: Public Process & Comments
   E. ATTACHMENT E: Department Review Comments




PLNPCM2025-01180                                1                                    June 24, 2026
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The purpose of this text amendment is to clarify the fines for violations of the Affordable
Housing Incentives (AHI) regulations for proposals that utilized the AHI process for
development. The AHI process and code were adopted in 2023. The AHI process allows for
additional development potential on a site, and removes certain public process requirements,
when income-restricted “affordable housing” units are included in a development proposal. The
process is regulated in City Code section 21A.52.050 “Affordable Housing Incentives.”

When the AHI code was adopted, an enforcement mechanism (a fine) was implemented to
ensure that any approved development continues to comply with the requirements of its
approval, such as retaining the associated affordable housing units included in the development
proposal. The text of the ordinance made reference to the enforcement fine being located in the
Consolidated Fee Schedule (CFS). However, legally fines are not considered fees, and so cannot
be listed on the CFS. All civil enforcement fees in Salt Lake City are listed in City Code.
Therefore, this text amendment is proposing to add the associated fines directly into City Code.

The fines proposed include $100 per affordable unit per day in violation of the affordability
provision, plus the difference between the amount of rent required (the affordable rent level)
and the amount of rent being charged (in excess of the affordable rent level). There is also a
$100 per day violation for any other provision of the associated restrictive covenant. The
“restrictive covenant” is a legally binding agreement, agreed to by the property owner and
recorded against the property, that may include other miscellaneous provisions related to the
AHI unit, such as the number of bedrooms in a unit or the location of the unit. Further, an
additional fine is proposed of $500 per day per affordable unit if an affordable unit is being used
as a short-term rental. The fine is proposed at $500 per day in order to serve as a sufficient
financial deterrent to using an AHI unit as a short-term rental, given the potential daily short-
term rental income from such a unit. The fines are specifically listed in the proposed ordinance
in Attachment B.

Listing these fines in the code provides clarification to applicants, residents, and City Staff of the
fine for violating the Affordable Housing Incentives regulations. As noted, the requirements of
an AHI approval are further outlined in a restrictive covenant that is signed and agreed to by the
associated property owner. The fines outlined in this text amendment do not replace or
invalidate any other specific remedies or financial penalties identified in the terms of the
restrictive covenant agreement.

APPROVAL PROCESS AND COMMISSION AUTHORITY
City Council is the decision-making body in zoning text amendments. The Planning Commission
can consider forwarding the proposal to the City Council for adoption as is, with modifications
to any aspect of the proposal, provided the modifications comply with applicable state and
federal laws, or recommend that the proposal not be adopted.

If considering modifications, the Commission can provide clear direction to the planning staff
regarding the changes and ask that the changes be made before sending the proposal to the


PLNPCM2025-01180                                  2                                       June 24, 2026
council for consideration, provide staff with exact wording (or deletions) that are desired, or
table the matter with clear direction to staff to make specific changes that the Commission will
review at a later date.

KEY CONSIDERATIONS
The key considerations listed below were identified through the analysis of the project:
   1. Ensuring the Ordinance is Enforceable

Consideration 1: Ensuring the Ordinance is Enforceable

As currently written, referring applicants and the public to the Consolidated Fee Schedule (CFS)
for violation of the Affordable Housing Incentives (AHI) regulations is misleading and can
create potential legal issues for enforcing noncompliance violations. Chapter 3.02.010
concerning the fee schedule states that fees are “charged by the city to offset regulatory and
service costs”. Noncompliance fines are not necessarily intended to offset regulatory and service
costs for the City. Additionally, the CFS document specifically states that “penalties, such as
fines” are not listed in the document, therefore the specific fine amounts for violations need to
be stated in the City Code itself.

This text amendment ensures clarity for applicants and the public regarding the enforcement
mechanism and the actions that can be taken when the Affordable Housing Incentives
regulations are violated. This clarification reduces risk to the public, the city, and landowners.

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forward a positive recommendation to the City
Council to adopt the proposed text amendment.

NEXT STEPS
The Planning Commission can provide a positive or negative recommendation for the proposed text
amendment. The recommendation will be sent to the City Council to hold a briefing and additional
public hearing on the proposed amendments. The City Council may modify the proposal and approve
or decline the proposed amendments.
If ultimately approved by the City Council, the changes would be incorporated into the Salt Lake City
Zoning Ordinance, and new development would be required to follow the new regulations.




PLNPCM2025-01180                                  3                                      June 24, 2026
ATTACHMENT A: Petition Initiation




PLNPCM2025-01180    4               June 24, 2026
                                                     MEMORANDUM             PLANNING DIVISION
                                                   DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY and NEIGHBORHOODS




To:           Mayor Erin Mendenhall

Cc:           Rachel Otto, Chief of Staff; Jill Love, Chief Administrative Officer; Tammy
              Hunsaker, Director, Department of Community and Neighborhoods

From:         Nick Norris, Planning Director

Date:         November 19, 2025

Re:           Initiation of a zoning text amendment related to zoning incentives to include
              fines in Enforcement Chapter of the zoning ordinance

The Planning Division is requesting that you initiate a text amendment to Chapter 21A.20 Enforcement
of the zoning ordinance related to the Affordable Housing Incentives section of Chapter 21A.52 Zoning
Incentives. When the City Council adopted Ordinance 74 of 2023 on December 5, 2023, the ordinance
specified that civil fines for noncompliance violations would be included in the Consolidated Fee
Schedule. The Consolidated Fee Schedule is limited to fees and does not include fines. The fine does
not appear on the current fee schedule. The text amendment would identify the fine in Chapter 21A.20
and remove the reference to the fine in the Consolidated Fee Schedule. The fine that was adopted by
the City Council when the affordable housing incentives were adopted is $100.00 per day per
affordable unit that is in violation of the approved incentives. An additional fine that is equal to the
difference between the approved rental rate as part of the incentives and the charged rate and is
charged on a per month, per unit in violation rate was adopted as part of the incentives.

The proposal will go through the normal 45-day public engagement period prior to the typical adoption
process for zoning text amendments.

Please contact me at 801-535-6173 or nick.norris@slc.gov if you have any questions. Thank you.

Concurrence to initiate the zoning text amendment petition as noted above.


_____________________________________                                  ______________
Erin Mendenhall, Mayor                                                 Date




SALT LAKE CITY CORPORATION
451 SOUTH STATE STREET, ROOM 406                                                             WWW.SLC.GOV
PO BOX 145480 SALT LAKE CITY, UT 84114-5480                                  TEL 801-535-7757 FAX 801-535-6174
ATTACHMENT B: Proposed Amendment




PLNPCM2025-01180   5           June 24, 2026
     Project Title: Affordable Housing Incentives Fines                 APPROVED AS TO FORM
                                                                        Salt Lake City Attorney’s Office
     Petition No.: PLNPCM2025-01180
                                                                        Date: ___May 22, 2026_____________

     Version: Planning Commission Draft                                 By: ____________________________
                                                                        Katherine D. Pasker, Senior City Attorney
     Date Prepared: 5/4/26

     This proposed ordinance makes the following amendment (for summary purposes only):

         •   Modifies Subsection 21A.20.040.B to remove the reference to the Consolidated Fee Schedule and
             list fines in the subsection.
     Underlined text is new; text with strikethrough is proposed to be deleted. Modifications made as part of
     the Planning Commission recommendation are highlighted in yellow. All other text is existing with no
     proposed change.



     If adopted by the City Council, the Salt Lake City Council ordains the following, in substantial
     compliance with the following:

 1   1. Amends Section 21A.20.040.B as follows:

 2       B. Affordable housing incentives per 21A.52.050: The fines in this subsection apply to violations of
 3          the affordable housing incentives of Section 21A.52.050 and are in addition to any remedies or
 4          financial penalties identified in the terms of the restrictive covenant required by Subsection
 5          21A.52.050.F.1. If the violation(s) are not corrected by the citation deadline, civil fines shall
 6          accrue at the following rates: rate set in the Consolidated Fee Schedule per day per violation.
 7              1. $100 per affordable unit per day for violation of any of the applicable requirements of
 8                   sSection 21A.52.050. If the violation(s) include renting an affordable rental unit in excess
 9                   of the approved rental rate, then an additional monthly fine shall accrue that is the
10                   difference between the market rate of the unit and the approved rental rate that is agreed
11                   to by the applicant at the time of approval for a project using the incentives.
12              2. $500 per affordable unit per day for such unit being utilized as a short-term rental.
13              3. $100 per affordable unit per day for violating any other requirements within the
14                   restrictive covenant not otherwise addressed by this subsection.
15

     Effective Date: This ordinance, if passed, shall become effective on the date of its first publication and
     shall be recorded with the Salt Lake City Recorder.




                                                          1
ATTACHMENT C: Text Amendment
              Consideration Standards
Zoning Text Amendments
21A.50.050.A: A decision to amend the text of this title or the zoning map by general amendment
is a matter committed to the legislative discretion of the city council and is not controlled by any one
standard. In making a decision to amend the zoning map, the City Council should consider the
following:

 1. Whether a proposed text amendment is consistent with the purposes, goals,
    objectives, and policies of the city as stated through its various adopted planning
    documents;

 Finding: The proposal is generally consistent with the AHI-related provisions of adopted City
 planning documents.

 Plan Salt Lake
 Guiding Principle 13 of Plan Salt Lake is to have “A local government that is collaborative,
 responsive, and transparent”. By clarifying the AHI noncompliance fine in the code, this ensures
 transparency on the part of the city towards the public, ensuring that there is no confusion regarding
 the enforcement of the AHI regulations.
 Other Citywide Plans
 Thriving in Place
 The City’s Thriving in Place plan serves as “Salt Lake City’s Anti-Displacement Strategy” document.
 One of the goals of Thriving in Place is to “elevate anti-displacement as a citywide priority”. This
 serves to further that goal by ensuring that property owners can be held accountable for maintaining
 affordable housing approved through the AHI process. This will reduce displacement by ensuring
 affordable housing options remain available for residents.
 Housing SLC 2023-2027
 The City’s Housing SLC 2023-2027 plan serves as the City’s 5-year housing action plan. Increasing
 the supply of affordable housing is mentioned as a priority in Housing SLC. This text amendment
 will ensure that property owners can be held accountable for maintaining affordable housing
 approved through the AHI process

 2. Whether a proposed text amendment furthers the applicable purpose statements
    of the zoning ordinance.

 Finding: The proposal generally furthers the related, applicable purpose statements.

 The Zoning Ordinance purpose is noted as the following:
 21A.02.030: Purpose and Intent:




PLNPCM2025-01180                                    6                                        June 24, 2026
 The purpose of the zoning ordinance is to promote the health, safety, morals, convenience,
 order, prosperity, and welfare of the present and future inhabitants of Salt Lake City, to
 implement the adopted plans of the city, and, in addition:
        A. Lessen congestion in the streets or roads;
        B. Secure safety from fire and other dangers;
        C. Provide adequate light and air;
        D. Classify land uses and distribute land development and utilization;
        E. Protect the tax base;
        F. Secure economy in governmental expenditures;
        G. Foster the city's industrial, business, and residential development; and
        H. Protect the environment.
 The purpose of the Affordable Housing Incentives is noted as the following:
 21A.52.050.A: Purpose:
        The incentives set forth in this section are intended to encourage the development of
        affordable housing. The provisions within this section are intended to facilitate the
        construction of affordable housing by allowing more inclusive development than
        would otherwise be permitted in the base zoning districts. Housing constructed using
        the incentives is intended to be compatible in form with the neighborhood and provide
        for safe and comfortable places to live and play.
 The proposal aligns with both purpose statements. Clarifying the zoning code helps to promote
 the safety and welfare of our residents, including those residents in Affordable Housing
 Incentives created housing, as outlined in 21A.02.030. It also serves the purpose of the
 Affordable Housing Incentives section as stated in 21A.52.050.A by ensuring the construction,
 and subsequent retention, of affordable housing.

 3. Whether a proposed text amendment is consistent with the purposes and
    provisions of any applicable overlay zoning districts which may impose additional
    standards;

 Finding: No overlay districts are impacted by this proposal.

 Discussion: The proposed text amendment does not change or impose additional standards
 for any specific zoning overlay district and only deals with implementing compliance fines.

 4. The extent to which a proposed text amendment implements best current,
    professional practices of urban planning and design.

 Finding: The proposal implements best practices by implementing clear enforcement
 regulations.

 Discussion: Providing clarity in the zoning ordinance follows best practices in ensuring that
 the code is clear and concise for the public and government officials alike. Fines are a
 standard enforcement mechanism for zoning ordinance violations.

 5. The impact that the proposed text amendment may have on city resources
    necessary to carry out the provisions and processes required by this title.




PLNPCM2025-01180                               7                                      June 24, 2026
 Finding: The proposal helps limit the city resources necessary to ensure compliance by
 making the penalties clear and enforceable.

 Discussion: The text amendment ensures proper allocation of city resources by providing
 clarity in the City’s enforcement mechanism. Clear fines and enforcement mechanisms help
 ensure a clear path for enforcement action and help avoid other more resource intensive legal
 processes to ensure compliance.

 6. The impact that the proposed text amendment may have on other properties that
    would be subject to the proposal and properties adjacent to subject properties.

 Finding: The proposal will help ensure compliance for properties subject to the associated
 AHI process and generally will not impact properties adjacent to those subject properties.

 Discussion: The proposed text amendments would only apply to properties utilizing the
 affordable housing incentives. The fines will help ensure that the resulting affordable housing
 development continues to be used for that purpose.

 7. The community benefits that would result from the proposed text amendment, as
    identified in 21A.50.050.C.

 Finding: Not applicable.

 Discussion: As per 21A.50.050.C, the Community Benefit standard within the zoning
 amendment code only applies to private property owners. Since this is a City-initiated petition
 by the Mayor, providing a community benefit is not required.




PLNPCM2025-01180                                8                                     June 24, 2026
ATTACHMENT D: Public Process &
              Comments
Public Notice, Meetings, Comments:
The following is a list of public meetings that have been held and other public input opportunities
related to the proposed project since the applications were submitted:
   •   January 27, 2026 - The project was posted to the Planning Division’s Online Open House
       webpage, and notice of the open house was provided to all persons on the Planning
       Division’s e-mail listserv.
   •   January 27, 2026 – All Recognized Community Organizations citywide received an early
       45-day required notice and were provided information on the proposal, how to provide
       input, and the timeframe for providing input.
Notice of the public hearing for the proposal included:
   •   June 10, 2026
          o Public notice posted on City and State websites and Planning Division listserv.

Public Input:
Planning Staff has received no comments regarding the proposed text amendment.




PLNPCM2025-01180                                   9                                   June 24, 2026
ATTACHMENT E: Department Review
              Comments
As the scope of the amendment is limited and generally does not impact other department regulations
or processes, no department comments or concerns were provided on the proposed text amendment.




PLNPCM2025-01180                                10                                     June 24, 2026
