                            Memorandum                                         PLANNING DIVISION
                                                     DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY and NEIGHBORHOODS



  To:         Salt Lake City Planning Commission
  From:       Aaron Barlow, Senior Planner
              aaron.barlow@slcgov.com, 801-535-6182
  Date:       June 24, 2026
  Re:         PLNPCM2023-00251 – Extension Request for Riverside Cottages Planned Development

Extension Request: Planned Development
 PROPERTY ADDRESS: 552 North 1500 West
 OTHER AFFECTED PROPERTIES: 1500, 1516, 1520 & 1522 West 500 North
 PARCEL ID: 08-34-230-026-0000
 MASTER PLAN: Northwest Community
 ZONING DISTRICT: SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential &
 R-1/5000, Single-family Residential
 COUNCIL DISTRICT: District 1, Victoria Petro
 ACTION REQUIRED
 Vote on granting a one-year time extension of Planned Development approval for Riverside
 Cottages at approximately 552 North 1500 West.
 RECOMMENDATION:
 Grant a one-year time extension for Planned Development approval.
 BACKGROUND/DISCUSSION:
 On February 14, 2024, the Salt Lake City Planning Commission reviewed and granted Planned
 Development approval for the following project:
   Bert Holland, representing Hoyt Place Development, LLC, is requesting Planned
   Development approval for an 18-lot development consisting of detached single-family
   houses that would be accessed by a private road at approximately 552 North 1500 West.
   The proposal also includes changes to the size of the lots located at approximately 1500,
   1516, 1520, and 1522 West 500 North. This application is required to allow new lots
   without street frontage, reduced setbacks, and other necessary modifications to relevant
   zoning regulations.
 The commission applied the following conditions to their approval of the proposal:
  1. A public access easement is recorded on the project site, ensuring a connection between
      1500 West and 500 North. The recording instrument shall delineate maintenance
      responsibilities and liability between the City and any property owners.
  2. Signage must be placed on the site indicating that the midblock connection is a public right
      of way.
  3. An application to demolish the house located at 552 N 1500 West shall be submitted within
      six months of approval of this request. (completed)
 Planned Development approvals expire in one year “unless a building permit has been issued or
 complete building plans have been submitted to the division of building services and licensing.”
 Time Extension: Riverside Cottages Planned Devleopment                                  June 24, 2026
 PLNPCM2023-00251

                                                          1
On April 9, 2025, the Planning Commission granted an extension to maintain the original
approval for one year.
The applicant has not submitted complete building plans to the Building Services Division and
has not obtained any building permits for work on the development at this time. As such, in an
email dated January 20, 2026, they requested an extension to maintain the original approval for
an additional year.
The Planning Commission may grant extensions for Planned Development approvals for up to
one additional year. An extension would push the expiration date to February 14, 2027. If the
extension is approved, the applicant will need to obtain a building permit or submit complete
building plans to Building Services before that date or request another extension.
In their initial approval, the Planning Commission included a condition requiring the applicant
or property owner to submit a demolition permit for the house at 552 N 1500 W within 6 months
of the approval date in order to close an outstanding civil enforcement case. In accordance with
that condition, the applicant submitted an application for demolition of the house on May 15,
2024, under permit number BLD2024-04000.
ATTACHMENTS:
1. Time Extension Request Letter
2. Original Record of Decision Letters
3. Original Staff Report
NEXT STEPS
Approval of the Request
If the extension is approved, the applicant will need to obtain a building permit or submit
complete building plans to Building Services before February 14, 2027, or request another
extension.
Denial of the Request
If the extension is denied, the applicant would need to resubmit a Planned Development
application for the original project or develop an entirely new proposal.




Time Extension: Riverside Cottages Planned Devleopment                               April 9, 2025
PLNPCM2023-00251

                                                         2
Attachment 1: Time Extension Request




                  This page is intentionally left blank.




Time Extension: Riverside Cottages Planned Devleopment       April 9, 2025
PLNPCM2023-00251

                                                         3
Barlow, Aaron

From:              dave robinson <dave.ssconsulting@gmail.com>
Sent:              Tuesday, January 20, 2026 10:55 AM
To:                Bert Holland
Cc:                Barlow, Aaron
Subject:           (EXTERNAL) Re: Record of Decision Letter for Riverside Cottages

Follow Up Flag:    Follow up
Flag Status:       Flagged



   Caution: This is an external email. Please be cautious when clicking links or opening attachments.

Aaron,

I hope you are doing well.

As you might know, we are still working through private road and private utility issues that impact
Riverside Cottages

We are requesting another extension while we resolve these important issues.

Please let me know what you need from us to proceed with the request for extension

best

dave

On Thu, Feb 27, 2025 at 12:12 PM Bert Holland <bert.theaiconsult@gmail.com> wrote:
 Aaron,

 I had this extension request on my to-do list for the end of February, but it looks like I should have had it
 on my list for the first part of February.

 Let me know if I need to re-submit this project.

 Regards,

 Bert

 ---------- Forwarded message ---------
 From: Barlow, Aaron <Aaron.Barlow@slcgov.com>
 Date: Fri, Feb 16, 2024 at 10:45 PM
 Subject: Record of Decision Letter for Riverside Cottages
 To: bert.theaiconsult@gmail.com <bert.theaiconsult@gmail.com>
 Cc: Dave C <dave.ssconsulting@gmail.com>

                                                         1

                                                         4
Hi Bert & Dave,



I have attached the Record of Decision Letter regarding the Planning Commission’s approval of the
Riverside Cottages Planned Development. Please keep a copy for your records.



Your next step will be the preliminary plat application. Approval of a preliminary plat application is
required before issuance of a building permit. You can find the application here:
http://www.slcdocs.com/Planning/Applications/SP.pdf.



I am working on getting the rezone ordinance published for the site. Continue as if it is already in place.
Publication of the ordinance is a formality at this point, but it will take some time.



Let me know if you have any questions. Send them via email, please. I will be out of the office until
March 4, 2024, and I will not be answering my phone during that time. Thank you!



Sincerely,


                      AARON BARLOW, AICP | (He/Him/His)

                      Principal Planner
                      PLANNING DIVISION | SALT LAKE CITY CORPORATION
                      Office: 801-535-6182


                      Cell: 801-872-8389
                      Email: aaron.barlow@slcgov.com
                      SLC.GOV/PLANNING   WWW.SLC.GOV




Upcoming Time off: February 19-March 1



Disclaimer: The Planning Division strives to give the best customer service possible and to respond to questions as accurately as
possible based upon the information provided. However, answers given at the counter and/or prior to application are not binding and
they are not a substitute for formal Final Action, which may only occur in response to a complete application to the Planning Division.
Those relying on verbal input or preliminary written feedback do so at their own risk and do not vest any property with development
rights.




                                                                  2

                                                                  5
Attachment 2: Record of Decision Letters




                  This page is intentionally left blank.




Time Extension: Riverside Cottages Planned Devleopment       April 9, 2025
PLNPCM2023-00251

                                                         6
ERIN MENDENHALL                                                                    DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY
Mayor                                                                                    and NEIGHBORHOODS
                                                                                             PLANNING DIVISION

February 16, 2024
Bert E Holland
The AI Consult
1415 S 1000 E
Salt Lake City, UT, 84103
RE: Record of Decision for Petition PLNPCM2023-00251
    Riverside Cottages Planned Development at approximately 552 North 1500 West
Dear Mr. Holland:
On February 14, 2024, the Salt Lake City Planning Commission granted Planned Development approval for the
property located at approximately 552 North 1500 West.
This Record of Decision is provided to you indicating the date action was taken, the decision of the Planning
Commission including any approval conditions, the one-year time limit on the approval, the limitations on
modifications to the plans, and the 10-day appeal period.
Project Description
The Planning Commission reviewed and approved the following project:
 Bert Holland, representing Hoyt Place Development, LLC, is requesting Planned Development approval
 for an 18-lot development consisting of detached single-family houses that would be accessed by a private
 road at approximately 552 North 1500 West. The proposal also includes changes to the size of the lots
 located at approximately 1500, 1516, 1520, and 1522 West 500 North. This application is required to
 allow new lots without street frontage, reduced setbacks, and other necessary modifications to relevant
 zoning regulations.
Conditions of Approval
The following conditions were applied to the approval of the proposal:
  1. A public access easement is recorded on the project site, ensuring a connection between 1500 West and 500
     North. The recording instrument shall delineate maintenance responsibilities and liability between the City
     and any property owners.
  2. Signage must be placed on the site indicating that the midblock connection is a public right of way.
  3. An application to demolish the house located at 552 N 1500 West shall be submitted within six months of
     approval of this request.
Review Process Standards and Findings of Fact
The Planning Commission made specific findings related to the standards of review for Planned Developments
as stated in Chapter 21A.55 of the Zoning Ordinance. The decision was also based on the purpose of the zoning
ordinance, the purpose of the zoning district where the project is located, the information contained in the staff
report, the project details provided by you, testimony from the public, and the discussion of the Planning
Commission. Copies of this information will be made available online here:
https://www.slc.gov/planning/planning-commission-agendas-minutes/.
Modifications to the Approved Plans
To obtain a building permit, all plans must be consistent with the plans reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission. The plan approved by the Planning Commission constitutes the site design in relation to building
placement and design, landscaping, mobility and circulation elements, and any elements that were approved as
zoning modifications through the Planned Development process. Modifications to the plan require an
application to the Planning Division, and the Planning Director can only approve narrowly defined minor
modifications as listed in 21A.55.100B of the Zoning Ordinance. Any modification not listed as a minor
modification requires approval by the Planning Commission.

SALT LAKE CITY CORPORATION
451 SOUTH STATE STREET, ROOM 406                                                                    WWW.SLC.GOV
P.O. BOX 1580, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84114                                                          TEL 801.535.7757

                                                        7
One Year Time Limit on Approval
No planned development approval shall be valid for a period longer than one year from the date of approval
unless a building permit is issued or complete building plans and building permit applications have been
submitted to the Division of Building Services and Licensing. An extension of one year may be granted by the
Planning Commission. Extension requests must be submitted in writing prior to the expiration of the planned
development approval.
10-Day Appeal Process
There is a 10-day appeal period in which any affected party can appeal the Planning Commission’s decision. This
appeal period is required in the City’s Zoning Ordinance and allows time for any affected party to protest the
decision if they so choose. The appeal would be heard by the Appeals Hearing Officer. Any appeal, including the
filing fee, must be submitted by the close of business on Monday, February 26, 2024.
The summary of action for the Planning Commission meeting is located on the Planning Division’s website at:
https://www.slc.gov/planning/public-meetings/planning-commission-agendas-minutes/.
If you have any questions, please contact me at aaron.barlow@slcgov.com
Sincerely,



Aaron Barlow, AICP
Principal Planner
cc:    File




                                                  Page 2 of 2

                                                       8
Attachment 3: Original Staff Report




                  This page is intentionally left blank.




Time Extension: Riverside Cottages Planned Devleopment       April 9, 2025
PLNPCM2023-00251

                                                         9
                                              Staff Report
                                                                                       PLANNING DIVISION
                                                              DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY and NEIGHBORHOODS


To:        Salt Lake City Planning Commission
From:      Aaron Barlow, Principal Planner, aaron.barlow@slcgov.com, 801-535-6182
Date:      February 14, 2024
Re:        PLNPCM2023-00251– Riverside Cottages Planned Development

                        Planned Development
PROPERTY ADDRESS: 552 North 1500 West
OTHER AFFECTED PROPERTIES: 1500, 1516, 1520 & 1522 West 500 North
PARCEL ID: 08-34-230-026-0000
MASTER PLAN: Northwest Community
ZONING DISTRICT (if approved): SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential &
                               R-1/5000, Single-family Residential
REQUEST:
Bert Holland, representing Hoyt Place Development, LLC, is requesting Planned Development approval for an 18-lot
development consisting of detached single-family houses that would be accessed by a private road at approximately
552 North 1500 West. The proposal also includes changes to the size of the lots located at approximately 1500, 1516,
1520, and 1522 West 500 North. This application is required to allow new lots without street frontage, reduced
setbacks, and other necessary modifications to relevant zoning regulations.
If the Planning Commission approves this request, they are approving the development plan for this site. The
development plan constitutes the site design in relation to building placement and design, landscaping, mobility and
circulation elements, and any elements that were approved as zoning modifications through this process.
RECOMMENDATION:
Based on the information and findings listed in the staff report, Planning Staff finds, with the recommended
conditions, that the proposal generally meets the Planned Development Standards. Therefore, staff recommends
that the Planning Commission approve the request with the following conditions:
1. A public access easement is recorded on the project site, ensuring a connection between 1500 West and 500
    North. The recording instrument shall delineate maintenance responsibilities and liability between the City
    and any property owners. (see Key Consideration 3)
2. Signage must be placed on the site indicating that the midblock connection is a public right of way. (see Key
    Consideration 3)
3. An application to demolish the house located at 552 N 1500 West shall be submitted within six months of
    approval of this request. (see Key Consideration 4)
ATTACHMENTS:
A. Vicinity Map                                               E. Planned Development Standards
B. Submitted Materials                                        F. Supplementary Material
C. Property and Vicinity Photos                               G. Public Process & Comments
D. Zoning Standards Review                                    H. Department Review Comments




Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                             February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                         1
                                                         10
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This is a proposal to develop approximately 1.87 acres (~81,447
square feet) of land located at approximately 552 North 1500 West.
                                                                                     Quick Facts
The area in question also includes the rear yards of properties at
1500, 1516, 1520 and 1522 West 500 North (see map below). The          Number of Units: 18 new dwelling units, 4
development would include 18 new lots accessed by a private street     existing units
from 1500 West. The properties facing 500 North would be reduced       Building Type: detached (stand-alone)
down to 5,000 square feet, but otherwise unchanged. Several key        single-family dwellings
features of the proposal require relief from zoning regulations and,
therefore, Planned Development approval from the Planning              Parking: 36 garage spaces (2 per unit) and
Commission, including lots without frontage on (or direct access to)   some additional parallel parking on the
a public street, rear yard setbacks, and maximum lot size. A           private street
complete list of all requested modifications to zoning regulations     Max Building Height: 28 feet
can be found in this report's Approval Process and Commission
Authority section. The proposed dwellings are designed with flexible   Review Process & Standards: Planned
configurations that can include up to four bedrooms or space for an    Development review, SR-3 zoning
internal ADU. The proposed development also includes a mid-block       Standards, general zoning standards
walkway connecting 500 North with 1500 West and Backman
Elementary School.




Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                             February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                          2
                                                          11
Background and Associated Applications
A request to rezone the properties within the subject site, which also included an amendment to the Northwest
Community Master Plan’s Future Land Use Map, was approved by the City Council in July of 2023. The request
rezoned most of the site from R-1/7,000 Single-Family Residential to SR-3 Special Development Pattern
Residential except for the south ~110 feet of the properties facing 500 North, which were rezoned to R-1/5,000
Single-family Residential. The changes are illustrated in the map below:




A condition of approval for the rezone, intended to satisfy the housing loss mitigation requirements (found in
section 18.97 of City Code), was the approval of an application to construct additional housing on the site. The
ordinance (or enacting document) establishing the rezone and master plan amendment cannot be published
unless the Planning Commission approves this Planned Development petition. Planning staff is reviewing this
project as if the new zoning districts were in place since they would apply if this petition were approved.
Current Conditions
The subject site consists of five properties with large rear yards. Four of them front 500 North and are occupied by
single-family houses, all currently occupied. The other property is accessed at the point where 1500 West ends next to
Backman Elementary School. The house on that property is in a state of disrepair and has been plagued with building
code enforcement issues. The applicant intends to demolish that building if this proposal is approved.
The unoccupied areas of the site are in varying states of maintenance. One is neatly mowed, while another contains
inoperable cars and debris. Except for the mowed property (1520 W 500 N), the backyards of the subject site are
Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                               February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                          3
                                                          12
primarily covered with brush, weeds, and unkept lawns. Poorly managed trees run along (and within) the fences along
the property lines within and around the site. There are multiple large trees on the 552 N 1500 W property. None were
elevated to specimen status by the City’s Urban Forester.




Rear yards of 1520 & 1522 West 500 N

Neighborhood Context
Character
The surrounding neighborhood primarily consists of detached single-family houses on deep and relatively narrow lots
with widths between 50 and 60 feet. There are a few notable exceptions to this single-family character near the site.
The first, immediately to the north of the subject properties and east of Backman Elementary School, is a small
development of four duplexes, zoned R-2 Two Family Residential. To the west of the project area, at about the middle
of the block, is a small, planned development consisting of seven single-family houses on small lots accessed by a
private street (Mackland Lane).
Streets and Transit
The streets adjacent to the project site (500 North and 1500 West) are local public streets lined with parkstrip and
sidewalks. Catherine Street, to the east, is the nearest connection between 500 North and the 600 South/700 South




Backman Elementary School drop-off area at 1500 West (Google Maps)

Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                              February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                         4
                                                         13
arterial. The only other connection on the block between those two streets is a path for students just east of the
Mackland Planned Development. Comments made by nearby residents regarding the rezone request noted that 500
North is known for motorists speeding between Catherine Street and Redwood Road, ostensibly to avoid the busy
intersection at 700 North and Redwood Road.
The 205 bus (running every 30 minutes) runs along the 600 South/700 South arterial with stops at 1400 West—just
under a quarter-mile walk from the subject site. Westbound buses connect to the Trax Green Line at Power Station
(approximately 1460 West North Temple), and Eastbound buses take riders downtown and then to points south
towards Murray.
Planning staff asked the City Transportation Division for insight on the capacity of 1500 West for new development
since it also serves as pick-up and drop-off traffic for Backman Elementary. They indicated that the intensity of the
proposal would not significantly impact the capacity of 1500 West. They noted that any overload caused by school
traffic would need to be mitigated by the school district and not by the applicants of this proposal.
Amenities and Schools
Riverside Park, the nearest park to the site, is located on the north side of 600 S/700 S and less than a quarter mile
from the subject site. Amenities at the park include two playgrounds, multiple sports fields, and large pavilions. The
Jordan River Parkway Trail connects Riverside Park and the surrounding neighborhoods to points north and south
and provides additional recreation opportunities. The Northwest Community, Recreation, and Senior Centers campus
(also located along the Jordan River Trail) is just over a half-mile walk from the site. Amenities provided by the
Northwest centers include an indoor pool, childcare, reservable space, and programmed activities for seniors and
children. The subject site is located within the boundaries of Backman Elementary (located immediately north of the
site), Northwest Middle, and West High Schools.
Utilities
Representatives from the Public Utilities Department did not express any concerns about the proposal’s impact on the
capacity of existing water, sewer, and storm sewer systems. They noted that calculations would need to be provided for
building permit review and that the cost of any necessary upgrades to public facilities would need to be covered by the
applicants.
Project Details
The Riverside Cottages development proposal includes 18 new single-family dwellings and four existing houses. The
bulk of the project is located within the interior of the block. A private street, accessed from 1500 West, would provide
vehicular access to the new lots. A midblock walkway would connect 500 North and 1500 West.
Lot Layout
Due to the narrow property frontage at 1500 West, none of the proposed 18 new lots in the development would front a
public street. Instead, they would be accessed via a private road, private alleys, and the midblock walkway. Buildings




Proposed access point at 1500 West

Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                 February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                           5
                                                           14
would be oriented toward sidewalks and walkways, placing garages in their rear yards and setting them back from
adjacent properties. Despite lacking public street frontage, 14 of the 18 new lots would meet the SR-3 district’s
minimum lot size and lot width requirements. Lots 1-4, located near the proposed vehicular entrance, would be slightly
larger than the 4,000-square-foot maximum lot size to account for the irregular shape of the subject site.




 View of access point location from 1500 West (Google Maps)

House Type
The applicant has provided elevation drawings
for the proposed single-family dwellings
(which can be found in Attachment B with the
applicant’s submitted materials). While simple
in exterior design, the modular nature of the
structures allows for customizable internal
configurations. The applicant has indicated
that internal ADUs are an option for those who
would purchase a unit. Garages for the units
would be located in the rear and include space
for up to two vehicles. The proposed structures’
footprints sit well within the maximum
building coverage (60%) of the proposed lots.
Street Access and Parking
The proposed private street and private alleys
within the proposed development would
provide access to each unit’s driveway and
garage. The sole connection to a public street
would be located at the north end of the
proposed development onto 1500 West. No
new vehicular access is proposed along 500
North. Parking for each unit (including any
possible ADUs) would be located within each
associated garage and driveway. Overall, 36
parking spaces are proposed for the 18 units       Rendering of a front porch design option for the proposed units.
(and 18 possible ADUs). That is a ratio of one
space per principal unit and one space per
ADU, meeting the minimum requirements for
single-family dwellings in the SR-3 district.
Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                   February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                              6
                                                              15
Open Space and Landscaping
The proposal includes just under 4,000 square feet of common area designed to be used as a community garden. The
applicant has not indicated if it is intended to be a public or private amenity. Landscaping included with this proposal
is designed to improve the experience along the midblock walkway that cuts through the middle of the development.
Landscaping on other lots would be installed according to the requirements for single-family dwellings.




                Landscaping plan for proposed midblock walkway

APPROVAL PROCESS AND COMMISSION AUTHORITY
Review Process: Planned Development
The applicant has requested Planned Development approval from the Planning Commission for modifications of the
following requirements:
1. Lot Frontage on Public Streets: 21A.36.010.C, which requires all lots to have frontage on (or touch) a public
     street.
2. Front Yard Setbacks: 21A.24.100.E.1.a, which requires the front of new buildings to project no farther than
     either the average depths of the block face or 10 feet from the front lot line (if no other buildings are present).
3. Rear Yard Setbacks: 21A.24.100.E.4, which requires 20% of a lot’s depth (not less than 15 feet and no more
     than 30 feet).
4. Driveway Width: 21A.44.060.A.6.c.(3), which limits the width of driveways in the SR-3 district to 22 feet.
The proposed project will need to meet the Planned Development standards found in section 21A.55.050 of the zoning
ordinance (An analysis of these standards can be found in Attachment E) in addition to all other relevant zoning
requirements that would not be modified by approval of this request.



Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                           7
                                                           16
KEY CONSIDERATIONS
Planning Staff identified the following Key Considerations through analysis of the proposal and from public
comment:
1. Master Plan Compatibility
2. Rezone Approval Conditions
3. Requested Modifications & Planned Development Objectives
4. Enforcement Issues
Consideration 1 – Master Plan Compatibility
The proposed development is generally consistent with the adopted policies within the following plans:
 • Housing SLC (Citywide Housing Plan, 2023)
 • Thriving in Place – Salt Lake City’s Anit-Displacement Strategy (2023)
 • Plan Salt Lake (2015)
 • Northwest Community Master Plan (1992)
A discussion of the relevant plans and policies can be found below:
Housing SLC (2023)
Goal 1: Make progress toward closing the housing gap of 5,500 units of deeply affordable housing and increase the
supply of housing at all levels of affordability. (emphasis added)
   • Entitle 10,000 new housing units throughout the city. (emphasis added)
Discussion:
The Planned Development process is a zoning tool that provides flexibility for projects that would typically not be
permitted through strict application of the zoning code. The proposed development is utilizing this process to allow
more efficient use of the subject property in a way that would otherwise be prohibited. The requested modifications to
the zoning regulations will allow for more dwelling units on otherwise underutilized parcels, assisting with the need
for additional housing within the city. Additionally, with the addition of flexible space for accessory dwelling units
(ADUs), the proposed development could provide space for a mix of household sizes and incomes.
Thriving in Place – Salt Lake City’s Anti-Displacement Strategy (2023)
Guiding Principle 3 – Increase Housing Everywhere: Create more housing overall, and more affordable
housing specifically, while minimizing displacement and countering historic patterns of segregation.
Goal 3: Produce more housing, especially affordable housing.
  • Strategy 3B – Make ADUs easier and less expensive to build.
  • Strategy 3C – Facilitate creation of more diverse housing choices.
Discussion:
As already discussed, the applicant has requested flexibility through the Planned Development process to facilitate
efficient development of the property. The property adjacent to 1500 West has a relatively narrow frontage abutting
the public way. Strict application of zoning requirements would require the applicant to either dedicate a new public
street through the site or limit the density of the site. While the proposed development would be market-rate housing,
it is still increasing supply, and Planned Development approval would enable the applicant to provide family-sized
units (defined as more than three bedrooms in the document) at this location.
The flexibility for ADUs in the units helps to fulfill strategy 3B. While more affordable than some other housing options,
the initial cost can be prohibitive for some homeowners. By integrating a flexible space at construction, the applicant
can help reduce the overhead that comes with new (internal or external) ADUs. Finally, the ADU element of the
proposed development enables a mix of different housing options within a single neighborhood. It places one-
bedroom/studio units right next to family-sized units, encouraging a mix of incomes and household sizes and
supporting Strategy 3C.
Plan Salt Lake (2015) Applicable initiatives from the plan are below:
2. Growth:
   • Locate new development in areas with existing infrastructure and amenities, such as transit and transportation
      corridors.
   • Promote infill and redevelopment of underutilized land.
   • Accommodate and promote an increase in the City’s population.
Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                  February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                            8
                                                            17
     • Provide access to opportunities for a healthy lifestyle (including parks, trails, recreation, and healthy food).
Discussion:
The proposed development takes advantage of an underutilized property and would rely on existing infrastructure
(after some possible minor improvements) without requiring significant investment from the City. The project is
located near numerous recreational amenities, including Riverside Park and the Northwest Recreation Center. Stops
for the 205 bus (taking riders downtown or towards the airport) are a five-minute walk from the site.
3. Housing:
   • Increase the number of medium-density housing types and options.
   • Direct new growth toward areas with existing infrastructure and services that have the potential to be people-
     oriented.
   • Enable moderate density increases within existing neighborhoods where appropriate.
Discussion:
Due to the narrow street frontage on 1500 West, Planned Development approval is necessary to facilitate the
development of moderate-density housing on the site. The strict application of the zoning regulations would require a
new public street and the removal of one of the single-family houses facing 500 North. The project takes advantage of
existing infrastructure to provide a moderate increase in density in the neighborhood.
Northwest Community Master Plan (1992)
The Northwest Community Master Plan was adopted in 1980 and updated in 1992. The update focused mainly on
specific areas of concern in the community, such as the airport and the state office complex along North Temple Street.
As these documents have not been recently adopted or updated, changes in the community and in city policies since
that time should be taken into consideration.
The plan recommends maintaining single-family neighborhoods and raises concerns about new development
interfering with neighborhood character. There has been significant growth across the city since 1992 but this portion
of the Fairpark Community has generally remained low-density residential. When discussing residential land uses, the
master plan states that the city should “encourage families to establish in the Northwest Community to stabilize the
community population.” As the community no longer has large tracts of developable property, infill development is
generally the only tool available to accomplish that goal. The proposed development, while denser than much of the
surrounding neighborhood, follows the direction of the Northwest Community Master Plan and maintains the single-
family character of its neighborhood. Impacts to adjacent property are mitigated by increased setbacks and the
project’s proposed midblock walkway would benefit all residents within the immediate vicinity.
Consideration 2 – Rezone Approval Conditions
When the rezone request associated with this project was approved in July 2023, the City Council included a
requirement for Planned Development approval of a project on the site. According to the Housing Loss Mitigation
requirements in Chapter 18.97 of City Code, the project would need to provide dwellings that would replace the house
slated for demolition at 552 North 1500 West. Publication of the ordinance (official document) enacting the rezone
(and the associated master plan amendment) must wait until a Planned Development is approved for the site (a draft
copy of the ordinance is included in Attachment F).
Because the ordinance has not yet been published, the subject site is not yet officially rezoned. Planning staff has
reviewed the proposal as if the new zoning is in place. Approval of this request would enable official amendment of the
zoning and future land use maps and allow the applicant to begin the subdivision process according to the plans
included with this request. Denial of the request would leave the project site, as well as its zoning and land use
designation, as they are currently.
Consideration 3 – Requested Modifications & Planned Development Objectives
The applicant is requesting several modifications to the zoning regulations as part of their development. Those are
listed in the Approval Process and Commission Authority section earlier in this report. Generally, all of the
modifications are related to meeting two Planned Development objectives involving open space and accessory dwelling
units. Specifically, these include:
• Housing: “Providing types of housing that help achieve the City’s housing goals, including housing types not
     commonly found in the neighborhood but of a scale that is typical to the neighborhood.”
• Mobility: “Creating new interior block walkway connections that connect through a block or improve connectivity
     to transit or the bicycle network.”
Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                          9
                                                          18
Housing
The dwelling units proposed with this request are all detached single-family. However, the houses on the site are closer
together than other single-family dwellings within the project’s vicinity. The project avoids possible negative impacts
due to its location within the middle of the block. Including possible ADUs only adds to the variety of housing types
within the development. The characteristics of the proposal make it a unique yet compatible moderate-density
development, achieving adopted goals that encourage missing middle (medium scale) development.
Mobility
The nature of the site requires Planned Development approval for efficient development of the space. A project of
similar scale that strictly adhered to all zoning regulations would require the installation of a public street (to ensure
all lots have public street frontage). That new street would likely require the removal of at least one of the single-family
houses facing 500 North and cause additional traffic issues by connecting Backman Elementary School traffic to 500
North—a street already dealing with excessive speeds between Catherine Street and Redwood Road (by drivers
attempting to avoid the busy intersection between 700 North and Redwood Road). Rather than creating vehicular
connections fraught with potential issues, this proposal includes a pedestrian walkway connecting residents and
students to Backman Elementary and points beyond, including Riverside Park. This type of connectivity would not be
possible without Planned Development approval, or the modifications requested by the applicant.
To ensure that the midblock walkway remains available to the public and to make it clear that it is available for public
use, Planning staff recommends that a public easement is recorded along the walkway and that signage is installed at
each side of the walkway indicating it is available for public use.
Consideration 4 – Enforcement Issues
The house at approximately 552 North 1500 West has been
under enforcement for a connection to City water that is not
buried according to adopted specifications. The property
owner, who is not the applicant, has yet to comply with
requests to correct the issue. The Attorney’s Office has asked
Planning staff to add a recommended condition to this
request requiring the submittal of a demolition permit
application for the house within six months of Planned
Development approval. That condition is listed with staff’s
recommendation.                                                   The house at 552 N 1500 W has a history of enforcement-
                                                                  related issues.
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Overall, the proposed Riverside Cottages development meets the intent of the SR-3 zoning district (as discussed in
Attachment D), the general zoning requirements, and generally meets the standards required for Planned
Development approval (as discussed in Attachment E). The applicant has made efforts to provide new housing on an
underutilized lot in a way that fulfills city plans and policies and provides a benefit to the community.
NEXT STEPS
Planned Development Approval
If the Planning Commission approves this project, they are approving the development plan for this site. The
development plan constitutes the site design in relation to building placement and design, landscaping, mobility and
circulation elements, and any elements that were approved as zoning modifications through this process. Plans for a
building permit must be consistent with the approved development plan and will need to comply with the conditions
of approval, including any of the conditions required by City departments and the Planning Commission.
The applicant would then be able to begin the subdivision process. A Preliminary Plat would need to be approved
before the issuance of any building permits. Final certificates of occupancy for the buildings will only be issued once all
conditions of approval are met and a Final Plat has been recorded.
Planned Development Tabled/Continued
If the Planning Commission tables the Planned Development application, the applicant will have the opportunity to
make changes to the design and/or further articulate details in order to return to the Planning Commission for further
review and a decision on the application.


Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                    February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                            10
                                                             19
Planned Development Denial
If the Planning Commission denies the Planned Development application, the ordinance rezoning the project site
would not be published, but the applicant could submit a new proposal that meets all of the standards required by the
Zoning Ordinance. The proposal will be subject to any relevant zoning standard or planning processes.




Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                              February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                         11
                                                         20
ATTACHMENT A: Vicinity Map




Riverside Cottages Planned Development        February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                         12
                                         21
ATTACHMENT B: Submitted Materials




                            This page is intentionally left blank.




Riverside Cottages Planned Development                               February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                              13
                                              22
         RIVERSIDE COTTAGES – PLANNED DEVELOPMENT

April 3, 2023

Introduction
Riverside Cottages consists of five parcels, each with an existing home.
One of the homes is to be demolished, while the remaining 4 are to be
fully renovated.

Riverside Cottages recently obtained SR3 and R1-5000 zoning for the
subject properties. This proposed Planned Development is for 17 new
single-family homes and 4 existing homes for a total of 21 single-family
homes.

Background

Riverside Cottages, an infill development, includes parcels 1522, 1520,
1516, 1500 West 500 North and also 552 North 1500 West.

A proposed private street from 600 North will provide vehicular access
to 17 single-family homes. The four existing homes face south and
access 500 North.

Improvements for Riverside Cottages will include new sewer, water,
curb, and gutter, gas, asphalt, etc. At the request of the neighboring
landowner, planning for utility and vehicular access for anticipated
additional phases.

Riverside Cottages totals 2.31 acres and a community garden is
designed as a common amenity for all homeowners to enjoy. The
following is a summary of what is proposed:

   1. Lot sizes. The R1-5000 lots range from 5,547 square feet to 5,684
      square feet. The SR3 lots range from 2,798 square feet to 5,000
      square feet.
   2. Homes. The homes are single-family detached with optional ADU
      or flex space. These single-family homes offer up to four
      bedrooms, three and a half bathrooms and if one chooses, a studio
      apartment or up/down flex space.



                                    14
                                    23
   3. Community garden. The community garden is conveniently
      nestled along the common paseo and is approximately 4,000
      square feet.
   4. Parking. The parking requirement for the SR3 zone is one (1)
      parking stall per dwelling. However, those choosing a garage will
      have two (2) enclosed parking stalls. Parking for units that are
      built with an ADU or flex space is located in the side yard of each
      unit with potential tandem parking. Through the Planned
      Development, the ADU parking is being requested as a
      modification in order to allow for on street parking credit. This
      request is due to the ordinance not providing credit for on street
      parking in single-family districts. However, the zoning
      administrator has made the determination that the parking
      ordinance does not define those districts clearly, and that the SR-3
      is actually defined as a medium density residential district. The
      requested modification of this provision is to ensure this clarity
      and allow for parking flexibility with this type of housing.

The purpose of the rezone was to allow for more flexibility in housing
options through development of the inner block, and changing the
zoning to a district that was created for development or interior
residential blocks.

The decision to grant the rezone was made by the Planning Commission
with the acknowledgement and expectation that any proposal for
development will meet the requirements and standards for Planned
Developments as well as the purposes of SR-3 and R1-5,000 districts.

The proposed development is consistent with the purpose statement of
the SR-3 district that calls for a medium-density zoning district that
provides “a variety of housing types, in scale with the character of
development located within the interior portions of city blocks”. This
proposal contains single-family homes with multiple floor plan options
that can and will meet the needs of the diverse population.

The Planned Development objectives and standards are being met by
promoting greater efficiency in use of the land, utility services, and
transportation systems. The proposed incremental increase in density
utilizes the land to a more efficient degree than would otherwise be


                                    15
                                    24
found in the area.

In addition, the location of the proposed development is adjacent to
Backman Elementary School, is across the street from a regional City
park, is a stones throw from the Jordan River Parkway, and from
shopping, banking, and restaurants.

Riverside Cottages housing options are consistent with the goals found
in the citywide plan: Plan Salt Lake, with the second initiative of the Plan
Salt Lake housing section being to “Increase the number of medium
density housing types and options.”

The proposed configuration is the most logical way to develop the
subject properties. These properties are narrow and deep and if they
were to be subdivided North and South, the result would be single-
family lots roughly 160’ deep. This fact provides adequate justification
for the structures to be oriented as proposed.

The proposed modifications allow the development to access the
expanse of property at the mid-block of Riverside Cottages and utilize
this asset for more housing choices in the community. Development of
the interior portions of the block would not be possible without the new
street and utility infrastructure. The applicant has created this housing
opportunity at significant cost. The ordinance that requires lots to front
a public street render most of the subject properties undevelopable
without modifications being granted through the Planned Development
process.

Planned Development Requirements

21A.55.010: Each objective includes strategies that are intended to be
used to determine if an objective has been accomplished through a
specific proposal:
A. Open Space and Natural Lands: Preserving, protecting or creating
open space and natural lands: The homes are oriented to create,
conserve, and protect open space and each home faces common green
space and a connecting paseo. A community garden is also included.

1. Inclusion of community gathering places or public recreational
opportunities, such as new trails or trails that connect to existing or


                                     16
                                     25
planned trail systems, playgrounds or other similar types of facilities. A
paseo connects Riverside homes, providing a safe environment for
walking and biking in the immediate neighborhood. In addition, the
paseo connects to the existing sidewalks and streets outside of
Riverside Cottages. These sidewalks lead to a grocery store, banking, a
school, the Jordan River, the State Fairgrounds, a recreation center,
public transportation, and more.

2. Preservation of critical lands, watershed areas, riparian corridors
and/or the urban forest. N/A

3. Development of connected greenways and/or wildlife corridors. The
greenways (common space) the homes face are connected via safe and
inviting walking and bike trails to neighbors, sidewalks, a community
garden, a neighborhood grocer, a school, public transportation, and
more.

4. Daylighting of creeks/water bodies. N/A

5. Inclusion of local food production areas, such as community gardens.
A Community garden is designed and included. In addition, grow boxes
are offered throughout.

6. Clustering of development to preserve open spaces. Clustering allows
the preservation of open spaces, green spaces, a walkable development,
great connectivity, and more.

B. Historic Preservation:

1. Preservation, restoration, or adaptive reuse of buildings or structures
that contribute to the character of the city either architecturally and/or
historically, and that contribute to the general welfare of the residents
of the city. N/A

2. Preservation of, or enhancement to, historically significant landscapes
that contribute to the character of the city and contribute to the general
welfare of the city’s residents. Native plants and grasses are used;
leading to water-wise landscaping, water conservation, low
maintenance, and more.


                                    17
                                    26
C. Housing: Providing affordable housing or types of housing that helps
achieve the city’s housing goals and policies:

1. At least 20% of the housing must be for those with incomes that are at
or below 80% of the area median income. While our focus is providing
high quality, price sensitive, work-force housing, the additional ADU’s
and or flex space can and will provide affordable housing options,
within a safe neighborhood, with direct linkages to down downtown, a
grocery store, a school, banking, restaurants, etc.

2. The proposal includes housing types that are not commonly found in
the existing neighborhood but are of a scale that is typical to the
neighborhood. We comply with the 28’ height restriction and our
homes are consistent with the size and scope of the neighborhood.
However, we have included flex spaces and accessory dwelling spaces
(ADU’s), adding more flexibility and affordability to the neighborhood.

D. Mobility: Enhances accessibility and mobility:

1. Creating new interior block walkway connections that connect
through a block or improve connectivity to transit or the bicycle
network. Our connected neighborhood sidewalks provide easy, safe,
and convenient access to a grocery store, banking, recreation, and more.

2. Improvements that encourage transportation options other than just
the automobile. Our connected sidewalks provide great access to public
transportation, biking, walking, etc.

E. Sustainability: Creation of a project that achieves exceptional
performance with regards to resource consumption and impact on
natural systems:

1. Energy Use and Generation: Design of the building, its systems,
and/or site that allow for a significant reduction in energy usage as
compared with other buildings of similar type and/or the generation of
energy from an on-site renewable resource. Our private streets require
less asphalt while providing more than the required parking. Most of
our homes are oriented east to west, with simple pitched roofs that


                                   18
                                    27
easily accommodate solar panels. Each home is wired for solar, and
every homeowner can choose to install solar panels at the time of
construction or in the future.

2. Reuse of Priority Site: Locate on a brownfield where soil or
groundwater contamination has been identified, and where the local,
state, or national authority (whichever has jurisdiction) requires its
remediation. Perform remediation to the satisfaction of that authority.
N/A

F. Master Plan Implementation: A project that helps implement portions
of an adopted master plan in instances where the master plan provides
specific guidance on the character of the immediate vicinity of the
proposal:

A project that is consistent with the guidance of the master plan related
to building scale, building orientation, site layout, or other similar
character defining features

Purpose Statement: The purpose of the SR-3 special development
pattern residential district is to provide lot, bulk and use regulations,
including a variety of housing types, in scale with the character of
development located within the interior portions of city blocks. Uses are
intended to be compatible with the existing scale, density and intensity
of the neighborhood. The standards for the district are intended to
provide for safe and comfortable places to live and play, promote
sustainable and compatible development patterns and to preserve the
existing character of the neighborhood. This is a medium density zoning
district. Off site parking facilities in this district to supply required
parking for new development may be approved as part of the
conditional use process. As previously mentioned, the properties at
Riverside Cottages underwent rezoning approval and were rezoned to
SR3 and R1-5,000.

The purpose of the rezone was to allow for more flexibility in housing
options through development of the inner block, and by changing the
zoning to a district that was created for development or interior
residential blocks. Riverside Cottages meets the intended purpose of
the re-zone by providing desperately needed housing options in Salt


                                    19
                                    28
Lake City.




             20
             29
21A.55.050: STANDARDS FOR PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:

The Planning Commission may approve, approve with conditions, or deny a planned development
based upon written findings of fact according to each of the following standards. It is the
responsibility of the applicant to provide written and graphic evidence demonstrating compliance with
the following standards:

  A. Planned Development Objectives: The planned development shall meet the purpose
statement for a planned development (section 21A.55.010 of this chapter) and will achieve at least
one of the objectives stated in said section. To determine if a planned development objective has
been achieved, the applicant shall demonstrate that at least one of the strategies associated with the
objective are included in the proposed planned development. The applicant shall also demonstrate
why modifications to the zoning regulations are necessary to meet the purpose statement for a
planned development. The Planning Commission should consider the relationship between the
proposed modifications to the zoning regulations and the purpose of a planned development, and
determine if the project will result in a more enhanced product than would be achievable through
strict application of the land use regulations.

  B. Master Plan Compatibility: The proposed planned development is generally consistent with
adopted policies set forth in the Citywide, community, and/or small area Master Plan that is
applicable to the site where the planned development will be located. We obtained a General Plan
amendment. The proposed development is consistent with the height, lot size, and scale of the
surrounding neighborhood. The proposed plan is also consistent with the wishes of the
neighborhood while balancing the city-wide plan. Although the area allows attached housing, our
plan ensures single-family homes, with flexible floor plans, that appeal to and accommodate different
sectors and meet multiple housing needs.

  C. Design And Compatibility: The proposed planned development is compatible with the area the
planned development will be located and is designed to achieve a more enhanced product than
would be achievable through strict application of land use regulations. In determining design and
compatibility, the Planning Commission should consider:

    1. Whether the scale, mass, and intensity of the proposed planned development is compatible
with the neighborhood where the planned development will be located and/or the policies stated in
an applicable Master Plan related to building and site design; The proposed development is
compatible to the neighborhood as it relates to scale, mass, and intensity. Our single-family homes
are approximately 2,000 SF and will not exceed 28' in height.

    2. Whether the building orientation and building materials in the proposed planned development
are compatible with the neighborhood where the planned development will be located and/or the
policies stated in an applicable Master Plan related to building and site design; Our homes are built
with sustainable and enduring exterior material. From metal roofs to custom windows and no stucco,
our homes maintain a fresh and timeless look. Our plan ensures single-family homes,

with flexible floor plans, that appeal to and accommodate different sectors and meet multiple housing
needs.

   3. Whether building setbacks along the perimeter of the development: Natural setbacks of
approximately 25' from the property line to the homes are built into our development.

      a. Maintain the visual character of the neighborhood or the character described in the
applicable Master Plan.



                                                  21
                                                  30
     b. Provide sufficient space for private amenities. The private amenity is a community garden.
There is adequate space and connectivity to the garden.

     c. Provide sufficient open space buffering between the proposed development and
neighboring properties to minimize impacts related to privacy and noise. Natural setbacks of
approximately 25' from the property line to the homes are built into our development.

     d. Provide adequate sight lines to streets, driveways and sidewalks. We adhere to AASHTO
standards

     e. Provide sufficient space for maintenance. N/A

     4. Whether building facades offer ground floor transparency, access, and architectural detailing
to facilitate pedestrian interest and interaction; Our homes have large windows, and porches, and
are oriented toward the open space. This is designed for safety, a sense of community, and more

    5. Whether lighting is designed for safety and visual interest while minimizing impacts on
surrounding property; We will include this in the landscape detail

    6. Whether dumpsters, loading docks and/or service areas are appropriately screened;
and Garbage cans are located at each home. Cans are to be kept in the garage or toward the rear,
on the side of the home

   7. Whether parking areas are appropriately buffered from adjacent uses. Each home has its
own parking and parking is allowed on the private street. We have gone to great care to separate
pedestrians from automobiles

  D. Landscaping: The proposed planned development preserves, maintains or provides native
landscaping where appropriate. In determining the landscaping for the proposed planned
development, the Planning Commission should consider:

    1. Whether mature native trees located along the periphery of the property and along the street
are preserved and maintained; N/A

   2. Whether existing landscaping that provides additional buffering to the abutting properties is
maintained and preserved; To be shown in the landscape detail

   3. Whether proposed landscaping is designed to lessen potential impacts created by the
proposed planned development; and. To be shown in the landscape detail

   4. Whether proposed landscaping is appropriate for the scale of the development. To be
shown in the landscape detail

  E. Mobility: The proposed planned development supports Citywide transportation goals and
promotes safe and efficient circulation within the site and surrounding neighborhood. In determining
mobility, the Planning Commission should consider:

     1. Whether drive access to local streets will negatively impact the safety, purpose and character
of the street; There is direct access onto 600 North, a State Hwy. The additional daily traffic count
will not have an adverse impact.




                                                 22
                                                  31
    2. Whether the site design considers safe circulation for a range of transportation options
including:

     a. Safe and accommodating pedestrian environment and pedestrian oriented design; Yes,
walkways connect the proposed development to its surroundings, to each home, and the community
garden.

      b. Bicycle facilities and connections where appropriate, and orientation to transit where
available; and Biking and walking are encouraged and we provide direct links to 500 South, 600
South, Bachman Elementary School, and more

     c. Minimizing conflicts between different transportation modes;

    3. Whether the site design of the proposed development promotes or enables access to
adjacent uses and amenities; Yes, we provide direct links to surrounding and adjacent amenities

    4. Whether the proposed design provides adequate emergency vehicle access; and We comply
with the International Fire Code (IFC)

    5. Whether loading access and service areas are adequate for the site and minimize impacts to
the surrounding area and public rights-of-way. N/A

  F. Existing Site Features: The proposed planned development preserves natural and built
features that significantly contribute to the character of the neighborhood and/or environment. N/A

  G. Utilities: Existing and/or planned utilities will adequately serve the development and not have a
detrimental effect on the surrounding area. (Ord. 8-18, 2018) Will coordinate utilities with the relevant
city departments




                                                   23
                                                   32
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PRELIMINARY PLANS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                            COTTAGES AT RIVERSIDE PUD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
PROJECT
LOCATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                            ATLAS PLAT 4, SALT LAKE CITY SURVEY


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            1465 WEST

           VICINITY MAP                                                                                                                                     E
                                                                                                                                       AS
                                                                                                                                   E PH
                                                                                                                          T      UR
                                                                                                                        FU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20' EASEMENT PER
                                                                         S00°00'44"W 148.95'                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ENTRY No. 939698
                                                                 36.95                                                37.00                                  46.00                               29.00

                                                                                                                                             PRIVATE ALLEY
                                                         STBK
                                                         27.5'




                                                                                  20'
                                                                                                                                                     (20' EASEMENT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S89°59'27"W 121.74'
                                                                                     S89°59'27"W




                                                                                                                                    S89°59'27"W
                                                108.74




                                                                                       108.72




                                                                                                                                      108.70




                                                                                                                                                                                      108.68
                          N89°59'38"E 153.68'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING
                                                                    1                                                  2                                        3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  HOME
                                                                 4,017 SF                                           4,022 SF                                5,000 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                             108.66
                                                                 0.09 AC                                            0.09 AC                                 0.11 AC




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      AS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           E
                                                                                                                                                                                                    20'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         R
                                                                                                                                                   STBK
                                                                                                                                                   (TYP)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TU
                                                           8' COMMON SPACE
                                                                                                                                                     20'




                                                           EASEMENT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             FU
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   EXISTING
                                                                                                                 4' WALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                 29.00                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             HOME
                                                                  36.95                                               37.00                                  46.00
                                                                                                                         N00°00'55"W 148.95'


  1500 WEST                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S00°12'40"E 297.69'                                                                              S00° 12' 40"E 113.69'
                                                                                                            PRIVATE ROAD                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        20.00                                                                         N00° 00' 09"W 31.00'
                                                33.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              36.00                  32.00                        32.00                          32.00                         32.00


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       PRIVATE ALLEY
                                                                                                                                                  STBK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            20'
                                                                                                                                                   18'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (20' EASEMENT)
                                                                                            N00°00'55"W 101.60'
                                                                                                                                                                                               FIRE LANE                                                                                                              150.00'                                                                                                                                104
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                               CURB MARKING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                5,674 SF                HOME




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50.12
                                                11.94




                                                                                                                 4' WALK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   0.13 AC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         COTTAGES
                                                                                                                                                             R=28'
                                                                                                                                                              R=15'
                                                    N4
                                                      3°                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                AT RIVERSIDE
                                                                                                                                                                                                             S89°59'27"W 211.05'




                                                        15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               98.47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              98.37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            PUD




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                98.27
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  98.18
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            98.08
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S00°00'09"E
                                                          '0                                                                                                                                       20'                                                   17                            16                            15                               14                               13
                                                            0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           198.53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           113.69




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    N89° 59' 51"E 478.35'
                                                              E                                                                                                                                                                                        3,529 SF                      3,140 SF                     3,143 SF                         3,146 SF                       3,149 SF
                                                                         52                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                               97.97




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.08 AC                       0.07 AC                      0.07 AC                          0.07 AC                        0.07 AC
                                                                           .0                                          4                                      5
                                                                             0'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             500 NORTH
                                                                                                                    4,023 SF                               3,155 SF
                                                                                                                    0.09 AC                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             PROJECT No. 1205
                                                                                                                                                           0.07 AC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           103                EXISTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             5' WALK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               HOME
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          5,547 SF
                                                                                         30.51




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       S89°59'51"W 198.88'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          0.13 AC


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4' WALK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        36.00                          32.00                          32.00                      32.00                                 32.00
                                                                                                                      37.10                                 40.99
                                                                                                                                                                       STBK
                                                                                                         STBK




                                                                                                                                                                        1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       COMMON
                                                                                                          1'




                                                                                                                                                                                                10,836 SF
                                                                                    N90°00'00"E 97.78'




                                                                                                                                                                                                 0.25 AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SPACE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                3,970 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S89°59'27"W 50.00'
                                                                                                                                                                              75.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.09 AC

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          102
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5,684 SF                 EXISTING
                                                                                                         67.27




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.13 AC                   HOME                                                                                                          Rocklin, California
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        100.00




                                                                                                                       7                                      6                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       916.778.0770




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    157.46'
                                                                                                                    2,798 SF                               3,074 SF
                                                                                                                    0.06 AC                                0.07 AC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         DRAWN:             KDC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        100.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      100.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       198.47
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            100.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  100.00




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          8                             9                            10                               11                               12                                                                                                                                                                                                CHECKED: SLK




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               50.00
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       3,600 SF                      3,200 SF                     3,200 SF                         3,200 SF                       3,200 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0.08 AC                       0.07 AC                      0.07 AC                          0.07 AC                        0.07 AC                                                                                                                                                                                                DATE:              1/4/24




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           198.53
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SCALE:             1"=20'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    S89° 59' 53"W
                                                                                    63'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHEET TITLE:
                                                                                 36.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           150.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          101                                                                                                                            PRELIMINARY
                                                                             0"E




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5,684 SF
                                                                                                                      PRIVATE ALLEY                                                                                                                                                          PRIVATE ALLEY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SITE PLAN
                                                                           .98




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.13 AC
                                                                         0'0
                                                                         27
                                                                      3°2




                                                                                                                              (20' EASEMENT)                                                                                                                                                    (20' EASEMENT)
                                                                                                                               2,207 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SHEET No.
                                                                    S6




                                                                                                                               0.05 AC                                                             33'
                                                                                                                                                   94.55



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       C-1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S00°02'12"E 425.21'

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 33                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WALNUT DR        COPYRIGHT © 2024 DELTA ENGINEERING, LLP.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. REPRODUCTION OF ANY KIND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                WITHOUT PERMISSION IS PROHIBITED.
CONSTRUCTION SET
                                                                                                                                           (OPTIONAL)
                                                                                                                    FIREPLACE EXHAUST VENT W/ SPARK
                                                                                                                          ARRESTER PER MANUFACTURER
                                                                                                                        (FIELD VERIFY EXACT LOCATION)
                                                                                                                                                                                        12                         12
                                                                                                                                                                                    9                                   9




                              27'-111 2" (28'-0" MAX. HEIGHT RESTRICTION)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6LQJOH)DPLO\
                                                                                                                                            TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                TOP OF PLATE
                                                                                                                                              EL = 118.229'                                                                                           EL = 118.229'
                                                                                                                                                                                             204

                                                                                                                            NICHIHA OR EQUAL SIDING                                                                                                        NICHIHA OR EQUAL SIDING
                                                                                                                                (COLOR / STYLE TO BE                                                                                                       (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
                                                                                                                              DETERMINED BY OWNER)                                                                                                         DETERMINED BY OWNER)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       +RPHV


                                                                                                                 8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8'-0"
                                                                                                                             12" METAL PANEL SIDING                                                                                                        12" METAL PANEL SIDING




                                                                            19'-23 4" (20'-0" MAX WALL HEIGHT)
                                                                                                                                (COLOR / STYLE TO BE                                                                                                       (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
                                                                                                                              DETERMINED BY OWNER)                                           (EGRESS)   (EGRESS)                                           DETERMINED BY OWNER)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VTIW
                                                                                                                                            TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                               TOP OF FLOOR
                                                                                                                                              EL = 110.229'                                                                                           EL = 110.229'
                                                                                                                                            TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                TOP OF PLATE
                                                                                                                                              EL = 109.00'                                                                                             EL = 109.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  5LYHUVLGH&RWWDJHV
                                                                                                                                                                                                                    100
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           HOSE BIB
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (FIELD VERIFY EXACT
                                                                                                                                            HOSE BIB                                                                                                       LOCATION)
                                                                                                                                 (FIELD VERIFY EXACT




                                                                                                                 9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       5LYHUVLGH&RWWDJHV6XEGLYLVLRQ
                                                                                                                                          LOCATION)                                                                                                        FINISHED GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Salt Lake City, UT 84116
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           10'-0" AWAY FROM




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       0HWDO3DQHOURRI
                                                                                                                                     FINISHED GRADE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR
                                                                                                                              (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           STORM WATER DRAINAGE)
                                                                                                                                    10'-0" AWAY FROM
                                                                                                                            STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1:
                                                                                                                             STORM WATER DRAINAGE)

                                                                                                                                             TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                              TOP OF FLOOR
                                                                                                                                               EL = 100.00'                                                                                            EL = 100.00'
                                                                                                                                  (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                                                                                            (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DQGPHWDOVLGLQJ
                                                                                                                                             4227.121'                                                                                                      4226.996'


                                                                                                                                              TOP OF FOOTING                                                                                        TOP OF FOOTING



                                                                                                                                   LINE OF EXISTING GRADE                                                                   GFCI/ WP OUTLET
                                                                                                                                          (SHOWN DASHED)                                                                    (FIELD VERIFY EXACT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  NOTE!




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SOXVILEHUFHPHQW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOCATION)             IN ALL CASES PERIMETER FOOTING SHALL BE CONTINUOUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AND EXTEND TO OR BELOW THE 30” FROST LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEPTH MEASURED FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE FOOTING TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THE FINISHED GRADE. R403.1.2 & 403.1.4




                                                                                                                                                   02 FRONT ELEVATION




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Project:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       VLGLQJ
                                                                                                                                                               SCALE 1/8" = 1'-0" (11 X 17 PAPER) OR                                                                                                                              CONTRACTOR & ALL SUB

                                                                                                                                                               1/4" = 1'-0" (22 X 34 PAPER)                                                                                                                                  CONTRACTORS WORKING ON THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              PROJECT TAKE FULL LIABILITY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 THESE PLANS AND SHALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             THOROUGHLY REVIEW AND VERIFY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ALL DIMENSIONS, LOCATIONS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             NOTES, ETC. PRIOR TO STARTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               ANY STAGE OF CONSTRUCTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (OPTIONAL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FIREPLACE EXHAUST VENT W/ SPARK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ARRESTER PER MANUFACTURER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           (FIELD VERIFY EXACT LOCATION)
                                                                                                                                                                                        12                         12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       2YHUDOO8QLW
                                                                                                                                                                                    9                                   9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       'HQVLW\LV
              27'-111 2" (28'-0" MAX. HEIGHT RESTRICTION)




                                                                                                                                            TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                TOP OF PLATE
                                                                                                                                              EL = 118.229'                                                                                           EL = 118.229'
                                                                                                                                                                                             208




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       DSSUR[LPDWHO\
                                                                                                                            NICHIHA OR EQUAL SIDING                                                                                                        NICHIHA OR EQUAL SIDING
                                                                                                                                (COLOR / STYLE TO BE                                                                                                       (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
                                                                                                                              DETERMINED BY OWNER)                                                                                                         DETERMINED BY OWNER)
                                                                                                                 8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Client:
                                                                                                                             12" METAL PANEL SIDING                                                                                                        12" METAL PANEL SIDING
                                                                            19'-23 4" (20'-0" MAX WALL HEIGHT)




                                                                                                                                (COLOR / STYLE TO BE                                                                                                       (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
                                                                                                                              DETERMINED BY OWNER)                                                      (EGRESS)                                           DETERMINED BY OWNER)                                             Project Info: Custom Plan




                                                                                                                                            TOP OF FLOOR
                                                                                                                                              EL = 110.229'
                                                                                                                                            TOP OF PLATE
                                                                                                                                              EL = 109.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       TOP OF FLOOR
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      EL = 110.229'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        TOP OF PLATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       EL = 109.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       XQLWVDFUH
                                                                                                                                                                              101
                                                                                                                 9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      9'-0"
                                                                                                                                     FINISHED GRADE                                                                                                        FINISHED GRADE
                                                                                                                              (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST                                                                                                      (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST
                                                                                                                                    10'-0" AWAY FROM                                                                                                       10'-0" AWAY FROM
                                                                                                                            STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR                                                                                                         STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR
                                                                                                                             STORM WATER DRAINAGE)                                                                                                         STORM WATER DRAINAGE)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Stamp:
                                                                                                                                             TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                              TOP OF FLOOR
                                                                                                                                               EL = 100.00'                                                                                            EL = 100.00'                                                         Drawing Information:
                                                                                                                                  (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                                                                                            (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                                            Project Number:                       1101-001-20

                                                                                                                                            4226.996'                                                                                                      4227.121'                                                        Project Manager:                      DLG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Project Engineer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Date:                                 03-26-2021

                                                                                                                                              TOP OF FOOTING                                                                                        TOP OF FOOTING                                                          Revision:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             MRK             DESCRIPTION                       DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       GLOBAL PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1     MODIFICATION                         03-26-21
                                                                                                                                   LINE OF EXISTING GRADE                                                                                                                                                                              CONSTRUCTION SET

                                                                                                                                          (SHOWN DASHED)                                                                                          NOTE!                                                                          2     -                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  IN ALL CASES PERIMETER FOOTING SHALL BE CONTINUOUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  AND EXTEND TO OR BELOW THE 30” FROST LINE                                      3     -                                           -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  DEPTH MEASURED FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE FOOTING TO                               4     -                                           -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  THE FINISHED GRADE. R403.1.2 & 403.1.4




                                                                                                                                                   01          REAR ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 5     -                                           -



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Sheet Title:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 A3.1
                                                                                                                                                               SCALE 1/8" = 1'-0" (11 X 17 PAPER) OR
                                                                                                                                                               1/4" = 1'-0" (22 X 34 PAPER)




                                                                                                                                                                                                           25
                                                                                                                                                                                                            34
CONSTRUCTION SET
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (OPTIONAL)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            FIREPLACE EXHAUST VENT W/ SPARK
                                                                                                                                         9:12                                                                                        9:12                   ARRESTER PER MANUFACTURER
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (FIELD VERIFY EXACT LOCATION)



                                                                                                 STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING
                                                                                                    (COLOR TO BE MEDIUM GRAY
                                                                                                             (NON-REFLECTIVE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (COLOR TO BE MEDIUM GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (NON-REFLECTIVE)
      27'-111 2" (28'-0" MAX. HEIGHT RESTRICTION)




                                                                                                                      TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                                       TOP OF PLATE
                                                                                                                        EL = 118.229'                                                                                                                  EL = 118.229'



                                                                                                                 METAL SIDING                   200        201                                          202                                                 METAL SIDING
                                                                                                          (COLOR / STYLE TO BE                                                                                                                              (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
                                                                                                        DETERMINED BY OWNER)                                                                                                                                DETERMINED BY OWNER)
                                                                                         8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8'-0"
                                                    19'-23 4" (20'-0" MAX WALL HEIGHT)




                                                                                                                      TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                                      TOP OF FLOOR                                      © COPYRIGHT 2020:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    REPRODUCTION OF ANY PORTION
                                                                                                                        EL = 110.229'                                                                                                                  EL = 110.229'                                   OF THESE PLANS FOR ANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   PURPOSE IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED
                                                                                                                      TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                                       TOP OF PLATE
                                                                                                                        EL = 109.00'                                                                                                                    EL = 109.00'

                                                                                                                  WALL FIXTURE
                                                                                                           (FIELD VERIFY EXACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         Riverside Cottages
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1:6DOW/ake City, UT 84116
                                                                                                                    LOCATION)
                                                                                                                                                           101                                          102        103         106
                                                                                                                                                105
                                                                                         9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Riverside Cottages Subdivision
                                                                                                               FINISHED GRADE                                                                                                                               FINISHED GRADE
                                                                                                        (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST                                                                                                                             (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST
                                                                                                              10'-0" AWAY FROM                                                                                                                              10'-0" AWAY FROM
                                                                                                      STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR                                                                                                                                STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR
                                                                                                       STORM WATER DRAINAGE)                                                                                                                                STORM WATER DRAINAGE)




                                                                                                                       TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                                     TOP OF FLOOR
                                                                                                                         EL = 100.00'                                                                                                                   EL = 100.00'
                                                                                                            (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                                                                                                                   (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)




                                                                                                                        TOP OF FOOTING                                                                                                               TOP OF FOOTING



                                                                                                             LINE OF EXISTING GRADE                                         HOSE BIB                                                                   LINE OF EXISTING GRADE
                                                                                                                                                      GFCI/ WP OUTLET
                                                                                                                    (SHOWN DASHED)                                          (FIELD VERIFY EXACT                                                        (SHOWN DASHED)
                                                                                                                                                      (FIELD VERIFY EXACT
                                                                                                                                                      LOCATION)             LOCATION)

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOTE!
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IN ALL CASES PERIMETER FOOTING SHALL BE CONTINUOUS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND EXTEND TO OR BELOW THE 30” FROST LINE




                                                                                                                                                      02         RIGHT ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DEPTH MEASURED FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE FOOTING TO




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Project:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE FINISHED GRADE. R403.1.2 & 403.1.4


                                                                                                                                                                 SCALE 1/8" = 1'-0" (11 X 17 PAPER) OR                                                                                                   CONTRACTOR & ALL SUB

                                                                                                                                                                 1/4" = 1'-0" (22 X 34 PAPER)                                                                                                       CONTRACTORS WORKING ON THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     PROJECT TAKE FULL LIABILITY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        THESE PLANS AND SHALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    THOROUGHLY REVIEW AND VERIFY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ALL DIMENSIONS, LOCATIONS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    NOTES, ETC. PRIOR TO STARTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      ANY STAGE OF CONSTRUCTION.




                                                                                                                                         9:12                                                                                        9:12




                                                                                                 STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING
                                                                                                    (COLOR TO BE MEDIUM GRAY
                                                                                                             (NON-REFLECTIVE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (COLOR TO BE MEDIUM GRAY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (NON-REFLECTIVE)
      27'-111 2" (28'-0" MAX. HEIGHT RESTRICTION)




                                                                                                                      TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                                       TOP OF PLATE
                                                                                                                        EL = 118.229'                                                                                                                  EL = 118.229'



                                                                                                                 METAL SIDING                                                205                  206                    207
                                                                                                          (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
                                                                                                        DETERMINED BY OWNER)                                                                                                                                METAL SIDING
                                                                                         8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Client:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DETERMINED BY OWNER)
                                                    19'-23 4" (20'-0" MAX WALL HEIGHT)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Project Info: Custom Plan




                                                                                                                      TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                                      TOP OF FLOOR
                                                                                                                        EL = 110.229'                                                                                                                  EL = 110.229'
                                                                                                                      TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                                       TOP OF PLATE
                                                                                                                        EL = 109.00'                                                                                                                    EL = 109.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                  104
                                                                                         9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           9'-0"
                                                                                                               FINISHED GRADE                                                                                                                               FINISHED GRADE
                                                                                                        (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST                                                                                                                             (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST
                                                                                                              10'-0" AWAY FROM                                                                                                                              10'-0" AWAY FROM
                                                                                                      STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR                                                                                                                                STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR
                                                                                                       STORM WATER DRAINAGE)                                                                                                                                STORM WATER DRAINAGE)



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Stamp:
                                                                                                                       TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                                     TOP OF FLOOR
                                                                                                                         EL = 100.00'                                                                                                                   EL = 100.00'                               Drawing Information:
                                                                                                            (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                                                                                                                   (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                  Project Number:                                1101-001-20
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Project Manager:                               DLG
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Project Engineer
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Date:                                          03-26-2021

                                                                                                                        TOP OF FOOTING                                                                                                               TOP OF FOOTING                                Revision:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    MRK             DESCRIPTION                                        DATE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              GLOBAL PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        1     MODIFICATION                                         03-26-21
                                                                                                             LINE OF EXISTING GRADE                                                                                                                    LINE OF EXISTING GRADE                                 CONSTRUCTION SET

                                                                                                                    (SHOWN DASHED)                                                                                                                     (SHOWN DASHED)                                   2     -                                                         -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        3     -                                                         -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        4     -                                                         -
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            NOTE!



                                                                                                                                                      01         LEFT ELEVATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            IN ALL CASES PERIMETER FOOTING SHALL BE CONTINUOUS          5     -                                                         -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            AND EXTEND TO OR BELOW THE 30” FROST LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DEPTH MEASURED FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE FOOTING TO       Sheet Title:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       A3.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            THE FINISHED GRADE. R403.1.2 & 403.1.4
                                                                                                                                                                 SCALE 1/8" = 1'-0" (11 X 17 PAPER) OR
                                                                                                                                                                 1/4" = 1'-0" (22 X 34 PAPER)




                                                                                                                                                                                                              26
                                                                                                                                                                                                              35
27
36
28
37
29
38
ATTACHMENT C: Property and Vicinity Photos




1522 West 500 North



1520 West 500 North




Riverside Cottages Planned Development        February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                         30
                                         39
1516 West 500 North



1500 West 500 North




Riverside Cottages Planned Development        February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                         31
                                         40
552 North 1500 West

Rear yard of 1500 West 500 N




Riverside Cottages Planned Development        February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                         32
                                         41
Rear yard of 1500 West 500 N

Rear yard of 1500 West 500 N




Riverside Cottages Planned Development        February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                         33
                                         42
Views of 1516 West 500 N rear yard




Riverside Cottages Planned Development        February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                         34
                                         43
Rear yards of 1516 & 1520 West 500 N

Rear yard of 1522 West 500 N




Riverside Cottages Planned Development        February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                         35
                                         44
ATTACHMENT D: Zoning Standards Review
The tables below illustrate how the proposed lots will comply with relevant zoning standards. Because the
development plan submitted with this request is missing some details, some standards will not be reviewed until
the Building Permit review stage of the development process.
21A.24.100: SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential District
The purpose of the SR-3 special development pattern residential district is to provide lot, bulk and use
regulations, including a variety of housing types, in scale with the character of development located within the
interior portions of city blocks. Uses are intended to be compatible with the existing scale, density and intensity
of the neighborhood. The standards for the district are intended to provide for safe and comfortable places to
live and play, promote sustainable and compatible development patterns and to preserve the existing character
of the neighborhood. This is a medium density zoning district. Off site parking facilities in this district to supply
required parking for new development may be approved as part of the conditional use process.
Standard                                        Proposed                                                          Finding
21A.24.010 – General Provisions for Residential Districts
21A.24.010.I – Front Façade Controls            The proposed elevations for each unit type                        Complies
10% of the front façade of each building must   includes more than 10% coverage from the
have an entry, windows, balconies, porches, or  features listed in this standard.
something similar (garage does not count)
21A.24.010.N – Landscaping within               The established yards of each lot are proposed                    Complies
Front/Corner Side Yard                          to be landscaped.
Front and Corner side yards must be maintained
as landscape yards (see Landscaping section for
requirements)
21A.24.010.V – Entrance Landing                 Landings are present at each entry.                               Complies
Each exit door must have at least 36” x 36” concrete
pad (uniform building code)
 21A.24.100 – Provisions for SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential District
21A.24.100.C – Minimum Lot Area:                       All proposed buildings are single-family detached. All     Complies
Single-family detached: 2,000 sq. ft.                  proposed lots are larger than 2,000 square feet.

21A.24.100.C – Minimum Lot Width:                      All proposed lots are considered interior and are          Complies
Single-family detached:                                wider than 30 feet
Interior lot: 30 ft
Corner lot: 40 ft
21A.24.100.D – Maximum Building Height:                Elevation plans show all proposed buildings within         Complies
Pitched roofs: 28 feet (slope of 2:12 or steeper)      maximum height.
Flat roofs: 20 feet
Measured from established grade
21A.24.100.D.3 – Exterior Wall Height:                  Elevation plans show all walls adjacent to interior       Complies
20 feet                                                 side yards to be shorter than 20 feet.
21A.24.100.E.1 – Front Yard Setback:                   Lots 4 and 5 have a proposed front yard setback of 7       Complies
 1. 10 feet or                                         feet.                                                      with PD
 2. Average setback of block, or                                                                                  approval
 3. Established by subdivision plat
21A.24.100.E.2 – Corner Side Yard Setback:             No proposed lots are adjacent to a public street so no     n/a
10 feet or established setback line                    corner side yards are present.
21A.24.100.E.3 – Interior Side Setback:                 All proposed units are set back at least 5 feet from side Complies
Single-family detached: 4 ft                            lot lines.

21A.24.100.E.4 – Rear Yard Setback:                    Lot 7 has a proposed rear yard setback of 5 feet and       Complies
 • 25% of lot depth                                    lot 6 has a proposed rear yard setback of 9 feet.          with PD
 • Not less than 15 feet                                                                                          approval
 • Not greater than 30 feet
Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                          February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                             36
                                                             45
21A.24.100.F – Maximum Building Coverage:              No proposed building covers more than 53% of a             Complies
60% for detached single-family dwellings               given lot
(includes primary and accessory buildings)
21A.24.100.G – Maximum Lot Size                        Lots 1-4 are slightly larger than 4,000 square feet.       Complies
Detached single-family lots cannot be larger than      They have been designed to accommodate the
4000 square feet                                       irregular geometry of the subject site.
21A.24.100.H – Attached Garage Standards:              All proposed garages are accessed from a lot’s rear        Complies
  • Garage width cannot exceed 50% of building         yard.
  • Behind or in line with front of building
 21A.36 – General Provisions
21A.36.010.B – One Principal Building                  One building proposed per lot                              Complies
No more than one principal building may be located
on a single lot in SR-3 district
21A.36.010.C. – Frontage on Public Street              Not all lots face public streets.                          Complies
All lots shall face a public street                                                                               with PD
                                                                                                                  approval
 21A.44 – Off Street Parking, Mobility, and Loading
21A.44.040.A – Required Parking                        Each proposed unit would include a two-car garage.         Complies
1 spaces per principal dwelling unit                   36 spaces proposed, excluding spaces along
No ADU space required, project site is within ¼ mile   private road.
of a transit stop
21A.44.040.E – Bicycle Parking                         -                                                          n/a
Single-family and twin homes are exempt from
bicycle parking regulations
21A.44.060.A.6.c – Driveways                           In order to accommodate traffic coming in and out of       Complies
• At least 20 ft from street corner property line      the development, the proposed private street               with PD
• At least 5’ from utility infrastructure              accessing 1500 West is proposed to be wider than the       approval
• At least 8 ft wide                                   22-foot maximum. Some driveways within the
• No more than 22 feet wide                            development are also proposed to be wider than the
• Shared driveway entry allowed if approved by         22-foot maximum. The applicant is requesting
   transportation division                             Planned Development approval for a modification to
                                                       this standard.

Accessory Dwelling Unit Review
Standard                                               Proposed                                                   Finding
 21A.40.200 – Accessory Dwelling Units
21A.40.200.D – Number of Allowed ADUs                  There would only be up to one ADU per proposed lot.        Complies
21A.40.200.E.1 – Location on property                  Any ADU on the site would be located within the            Complies
Internal ADUs shall be located within the buildable    buildable area.
area of a lot
21A.40.200.G – ADU Parking                             The subject site is located within ¼ mile of a transit     Complies
One space per ADU unless the property is:              stop, so ADU parking is not required.
    • Within a district with no parking
         requirement.
    • already parked beyond what is required.
    • Within ¼ mile of a transit stop
    • Within ½ mile of a bike lane
21A.40.200.J – Gross Floor Area                        None of the proposed potential interior ADU spaces         Complies
There is no maximum gross floor area for internal      would be larger than the structure in which they are
ADUs, but they cannot exceed 50% of a structure’s      located.
gross floor area.
21A.40.200.N – Admin Regulations                       The proposal complies with this standard.                  Complies
No minimum lot size for ADUs
ADUs do not count toward lot density




Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                          February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                             37
                                                             46
ATTACHMENT E: Planned Development Standards
21A.55.050: Standards for Planned Developments: The planning commission may approve, approve with
conditions, or deny a planned development based upon written findings of fact according to each of the following
standards. It is the responsibility of the applicant to provide written and graphic evidence demonstrating compliance
with the following standards.
The Finding for each standard is the recommendation of the Planning Division based on the facts associated with
the proposal, the discussion that follows, and the input received during the engagement process. Input received after
the staff report is published has not been considered in this report.

  A. Planned Development Objectives: The planned development shall meet the purpose statement for a
     planned development (section 21A.55.010 of this chapter) and will achieve at least one of the objectives stated
     in said section. To determine if a planned development objective has been achieved, the applicant shall
     demonstrate that at least one of the strategies associated with the objective are included in the proposed
     planned development. The applicant shall also demonstrate why modifications to the zoning regulations are
     necessary to meet the purpose statement for a planned development. The Planning Commission should
     consider the relationship between the proposed modifications to the zoning regulations and the purpose of a
     planned development, and determine if the project will result in a more enhanced product than would be
     achievable through strict application of the land use regulations.
 Planned Development Purpose Statement: A planned development is intended to encourage the efficient
 use of land and resources, promoting greater efficiency in public and utility services and encouraging innovation
 in the planning and building of all types of development. Further, a planned development implements the purpose
 statement of the zoning district in which the project is located, utilizing an alternative approach to the design of
 the property and related physical facilities. A planned development incorporates special development
 characteristics that help to achieve City goals identified in adopted Master Plans and that provide an overall
 benefit to the community as determined by the planned development objectives. A planned development will
 result in a more enhanced product than would be achievable through strict application of land use regulations,
 while enabling the development to be compatible with adjacent and nearby land developments.
 Discussion:
 The proposed development efficiently uses the site in a way that would otherwise be difficult without Planned
 Development approval. Since the subject property only abuts a public street on one side, strict application of zoning
 requirements would require redundant and expensive public improvements, including new streets. As mentioned
 in Key Consideration 3, the requested modifications to the zoning standards enable new infill lots without the
 removal of existing units. The modifications also allow for pedestrian-focused infrastructure with the addition of a
 midblock walkway. They also allow for development that fulfills adopted plans and policies in a way that would not
 be possible otherwise. This is further discussed under Key Consideration 1.

 Finding: ☒ Meets Planned Development Purpose Statement
          ☐ Does Not Meet Planned Development Purpose Statement
  SR-3 Purpose Statement: The purpose of the SR-3 special development pattern residential district is to
  provide lot, bulk and use regulations, including a variety of housing types, in scale with the character of
  development located within the interior portions of city blocks. Uses are intended to be compatible with the
  existing scale, density and intensity of the neighborhood. The standards for the district are intended to provide
  for safe and comfortable places to live and play, promote sustainable and compatible development patterns and
  to preserve the existing character of the neighborhood. This is a medium density zoning district. Off site parking
  facilities in this district to supply required parking for new development may be approved as part of the
  conditional use process.
 Discussion:
 The proposed development would bring new housing into an established neighborhood while improving pedestrian
 mobility. The proposal is located within the interior portion of a city block. The detached single-family nature of the

Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                  February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                           38
                                                           47
 development reflects the character of the neighborhood, albeit at a moderate density. The requested modifications
 help to avoid removing an existing house on 500 North, further maintaining the neighborhood’s existing character.
 The midblock walkway would add pedestrian connections to the block, potentially encouraging walkability in the
 neighborhood.

 Finding: ☒ Meets SR-3 Purpose Statement ☐ Does Not Meet SR-3 Purpose Statement

  R-1/5,000 Purpose Statement: The purpose of the R-1/5,000 Single-Family Residential District is to provide
  for conventional single-family residential neighborhoods on lots not less than five thousand (5,000) square feet
  in size. This district is appropriate in areas of the City as identified in the applicable community Master Plan.
  Uses are intended to be compatible with the existing scale and intensity of the neighborhood. The standards for
  the district are intended to provide for safe and comfortable places to live and play, promote sustainable and
  compatible development patterns and to preserve the existing character of the neighborhood.
 Discussion:
 The four existing single-family houses are located within the R-1/5,000 zoning district. Planned Development
 approval would allow for the efficient development of the site without losing these units. The character of 500 North
 would remain, maintaining the neighborhood as a “safe and comfortable place to live and play.”

 Finding: ☒ Meets R-1/5,000 Purpose Statement ☐ Does Not Meet R-1/5,000 Purpose Statement

 A. Open Space And Natural Lands: Preserving, protecting or creating open space and natural lands:
    1. Inclusion of community gathering places or public recreational opportunities, such as new trails or trails
       that connect to existing or planned trail systems, playgrounds or other similar types of facilities.
    2. Preservation of critical lands, watershed areas, riparian corridors and/or the urban forest.
    3. Development of connected greenways and/or wildlife corridors.
    4. Daylighting of creeks/water bodies.
    5. Inclusion of local food production areas, such as community gardens.
    6. Clustering of development to preserve open spaces.
 Discussion:
 The proposal includes community space for residents to congregate and garden. However, this request did
 not include details regarding programming at the site, so staff finds that it only partially meets this objective.
 This proposal has met other objectives, and only one must be met to meet this standard.
 Finding: ☐ Objective Satisfied          ☒ Objective Not Satisfied
 B. Historic Preservation:
    1. Preservation, restoration, or adaptive reuse of buildings or structures that contribute to the character of the
       City either architecturally and/or historically, and that contribute to the general welfare of the residents of
       the City.
    2. Preservation of, or enhancement to, historically significant landscapes that contribute to the character of
       the City and contribute to the general welfare of the City's residents.
 Discussion: The applicant is not proposing to meet this objective. Only one objective must be met.
 C. Housing: Providing affordable housing or types of housing that helps achieve the City's housing goals and
    policies:
    1. At least twenty percent (20%) of the housing must be for those with incomes that are at or below eighty
        percent (80%) of the area median income.
    2. The proposal includes housing types that are not commonly found in the existing
        neighborhood but are of a scale that is typical to the neighborhood.
 Discussion:
 As discussed under Key Consideration 3, This request proposes detached single-family dwelling units but with a
 higher density than other single-family homes nearby. The project's location in the middle of the block helps
 mitigate potential adverse effects. Additionally, considering the possibility of adding accessory dwelling units

Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                          39
                                                          48
 (ADUs) increases the variety of housing types available within the development. These features make the proposal
 a distinctive yet harmonious moderate-density development, aligning with City goals to promote "missing middle"
 (medium-scale) development.

 Finding: ☒ Objective Satisfied           ☐ Objective Not Satisfied
 D. Mobility: Enhances accessibility and mobility:
   1. Creating new interior block walkway connections that connect through a block or improve
       connectivity to transit or the bicycle network.
   2. Improvements that encourage transportation options other than just the automobile.
 Discussion:
 The site's characteristics make Planned Development approval necessary to develop it effectively. If the applicant
 were to strictly follow all zoning regulations, it would require a public street (likely an extension of 1500 West).
 However, a new street through the site would require removing at least one of the single-family houses facing 500
 North. This new street would also would worsen traffic in the area by connecting Backman Elementary School traffic
 drop-off traffic to 500 North, which already has speeding issues between Catherine Street and Redwood Road (as
 drivers try to avoid the busy intersection between 700 North and Redwood Road). Instead of creating potentially
 problematic vehicular connections, the proposal includes a pedestrian walkway linking residents and students to
 Backman Elementary and beyond, including Riverside Park. Achieving this kind of connectivity is only possible
 with Planned Development approval and the changes requested by the applicant.
 To ensure that the midblock walkway remains available to the public and to make it clear that it is available for
 public use, Planning staff recommends that a public easement is recorded along the walkway and that signage is
 installed at each side of the walkway indicating it is available for public use.
 Finding: ☒ Objective Satisfied           ☐ Objective Not Satisfied
 E.      Sustainability: Creation of a project that achieves exceptional performance with regards to resource
       consumption and impact on natural systems:
      1. Energy Use And Generation: Design of the building, its systems, and/or site that allow for a significant
          reduction in energy usage as compared with other buildings of similar type and/or the generation of energy
          from an on-site renewable resource.
      2. Reuse Of Priority Site: Locate on a brownfield where soil or groundwater contamination has been identified,
          and where the local, State, or national authority (whichever has jurisdiction) requires its remediation.
          Perform remediation to the satisfaction of that authority.
 Discussion: The applicant is not proposing to meet this objective. Only one objective must be met.
 F.     Master Plan Implementation: A project that helps implement portions of an adopted Master Plan in
       instances where the Master Plan provides specific guidance on the character of the immediate vicinity of the
       proposal:
      1. A project that is consistent with the guidance of the Master Plan related to building scale, building orientation,
          site layout, or other similar character-defining features.
 Discussion: The applicant is not proposing to meet this objective. Only one objective must be met.
  B. Master Plan Compatibility: The proposed planned development is generally consistent with adopted
     policies set forth in the Citywide, community, and/or small area Master Plan that is applicable to the site where
     the planned development will be located.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 Master Plan Compatibility was discussed in Key Consideration 1 of the staff report. The proposed
 development is appropriate for the SR-3 and R-1/5,000 zoning districts and does not run contrary to the
 applicable master plans for this neighborhood.

Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                     February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                             40
                                                             49
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  C. Design And Compatibility: The proposed planned development is compatible with the area the planned
     development will be located and is designed to achieve a more enhanced product than would be achievable
     through strict application of land use regulations. In determining design and compatibility, the Planning
     Commission should consider:
  1. Whether the scale, mass, and intensity of the proposed planned development is compatible with the
     neighborhood where the planned development will be located and/or the policies stated in an applicable Master
     Plan related to building and site design;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 The proposal’s compatibility with adopted policies is discussed under Key Consideration 1. This proposal is for
 detached, single-family dwellings at a moderately dense scale. It manages to satisfy the Northwest Community
 Plan’s call for sustaining neighborhood character while introducing the moderate density recommended by Plan
 Salt Lake and Housing SLC. The proposed units, while simple in design, are intended to maintain the scale of
 buildings in the neighborhood. It provides a transition between the duplexes on 1500 West and the single-family
 dwellings on the site that face 500 North.

 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  2. Whether the building orientation and building materials in the proposed planned development are compatible
     with the neighborhood where the planned development will be located and/or the policies stated in an
     applicable Master Plan related to building and site design;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 Buildings within the proposed development are oriented within the block, in line with the stated purpose of the SR-
 3 district to encourage mid-block infill. The units align with the Northwest Community Master Plan and more
 recently adopted plans by providing moderate density within established neighborhoods with detached single-
 family dwellings.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
 3. Whether building setbacks along the perimeter of the development:
    a. Maintain the visual character of the neighborhood or the character described in the applicable Master Plan.
    b. Provide sufficient space for private amenities.
    c. Provide sufficient open space buffering between the proposed development and neighboring properties to
       minimize impacts related to privacy and noise.
    d. Provide adequate sight lines to streets, driveways and sidewalks.
    e. Provide sufficient space for maintenance.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
    a. The Northwest Community Master Plan suggests that the single-family character of neighborhoods in the
       area should be preserved as much as possible, yet more recently adopted plans call for increases in density.
       This proposal threads the needle by providing detached single-family dwellings at a moderately denser scale
       than surrounding development.
    b. The proposed plans include a community space for gathering and gardening.
    c. The proposed units have been set back from adjacent residential property.
    d. The proposed access point from 1500 West would be sufficiently clear enough to facilitate driver and
       pedestrian visibility. The proposed development does not appear to crowd any existing/proposed streets,
       driveways, or sidewalks.


Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                              February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                         41
                                                         50
     e. The private street provides ample space for large fire trucks to turn around within the site. Maintenance
        vehicles should not have any issues entering or exiting the site.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  4. Whether building facades offer ground floor transparency, access, and architectural detailing to facilitate
     pedestrian interest and interaction;
 Finding: Complies With Conditions
 Discussion:
 Excluding the existing dwellings along 500 North, buildings in the development would not front a public street.
 Houses lining the midblock walkway will face inward, along their porches to line each side of the path. The units
 are designed to have large windows on their front facades. With the addition of the proposed landscaping, areas
 that may have the greatest amount of pedestrian traffic are designed to facilitate interest and interaction.
 Condition(s): To ensure that the midblock walkway remains available to the public and to make it clear that it is
 available for public use, Planning staff recommends that a public easement is recorded along the walkway and that
 signage is installed at each side of the walkway indicating it is available for public use.
  5. Whether lighting is designed for safety and visual interest while minimizing impacts on surrounding property;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 This is a low-scale residential development where significant lighting is not expected. Lighting at garages and
 doorways of the units will provide sufficient lighting for development at this scale.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  6. Whether dumpsters, loading docks and/or service areas are appropriately screened;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 All proposed uses are single-family dwellings; each unit will have private garbage cans. No dumpsters, loading
 docks, or service areas are proposed with this development.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  7. Whether parking areas are appropriately buffered from adjacent uses.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 Parking on the site will be similar in character to surrounding properties (within garages and on driveways), and
 negative impacts are expected to be minimal.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  D. Landscaping: The proposed planned development preserves, maintains or provides native landscaping
     where appropriate. In determining the landscaping for the proposed planned development, the Planning
     Commission should consider:
  1. Whether mature native trees located along the periphery of the property and along the street are preserved and
     maintained;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:


Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                              February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                         42
                                                         51
 Trees on the site were not identified as native by the Urban Forestry Division. The trees found at the site’s periphery
 are weeds typically found along fence lines of properties that have gone through periods of limited maintenance. It
 is common to find weedy tree varieties (including Siberian Elms and Trees of Heaven) in areas where windswept
 seeds may be caught, like along a fence.
 The Urban Forestry Division takes a closer look at development projects during building permit review. If they find
 that any tree on the site meets their definition of a specimen tree, removal would require adherence to the Private
 Lands Tree Preservation requirements in section 21.48.135 of the zoning ordinance.

 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  2. Whether existing landscaping that provides additional buffering to the abutting properties is maintained and
     preserved;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 No existing landscaping buffers the site from adjacent properties to the north and west. The proposed units are set
 back from all property lines abutting property outside the project area, reducing potential impacts.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  3. Whether proposed landscaping is designed to lessen potential impacts created by the proposed planned
     development;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 The proposed development would be single-family in character, not wildly different from the neighborhood’s
 existing character. Staff finds that landscaping required by zoning regulations will be sufficient in lessening any
 potential impacts from the proposal.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  4. Whether proposed landscaping is appropriate for the scale of the development.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 Proposed landscaping along the midblock walkway would enhance the experience of pedestrians using the pathway
 and maintain privacy for occupants of the houses lining the path. The proposed landscaping includes a significant
 number of large shrubs, ornamental grasses, and perennials. The proposed plant material's scale and variety will
 match the development's low-density residential scale.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  E. Mobility: The proposed planned development supports Citywide transportation goals and promotes safe and
     efficient circulation within the site and surrounding neighborhood. In determining mobility, the Planning
     Commission should consider:
  1. Whether drive access to local streets will negatively impact the safety, purpose and character of the street;

 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 Staff from the Transportation division has indicated that the proposed development would not significantly
 impact traffic on 1500 West. They noted that any overload caused by school traffic would need to be mitigated
 by the school district and not by the applicants of this proposal.



Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                  February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                           43
                                                           52
 The applicant has intentionally avoided a connection to 500 North, where impacts from traffic are more likely
 to be felt by the community. Avoiding a connection to 500 North also prevents the need to demolish any of
 the four existing single-family houses on the site.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  2. Whether the site design considers safe circulation for a range of transportation options including:
     a. Safe and accommodating pedestrian environment and pedestrian oriented design;
     b. Bicycle facilities and connections where appropriate, and orientation to transit where available; and
     c. Minimizing conflicts between different transportation modes;
 Finding: Complies With Conditions
 Discussion:
    a. The proposal includes a midblock walkway for pedestrians and cyclists. It would provide a pedestrian
       connection previously only available to students at Backman Elementary (via the walkway adjacent to the
       Mackland PUD).
    b. The midblock walkway would be open to cyclists, connecting 500 North to the 600 S/700 S arterial. The
       walkway also provides a pathway from 500 North to stops for the 205 bus.
    c. The proposal is a low-scale, low-density development on streets with relatively low traffic. Only one
       vehicular access point is proposed via 1500 West. Sidewalks within the proposed development are proposed
       to connect with the existing network, keeping pedestrians and vehicles separated and reducing conflicts.
 Condition(s): To ensure that the midblock walkway remains available to the public and to make it clear that it is
 available for public use, Planning staff recommends that a public easement is recorded along the walkway and that
 signage is installed at each side of the walkway indicating it is available for public use.
  3. Whether the site design of the proposed development promotes or enables access to adjacent uses and
     amenities;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 All proposed units would have access to nearby uses and amenities via the private street’s connections to 1500 West
 and the midblock walkway.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  4. Whether the proposed design provides adequate emergency vehicle access; and
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 The proposal must comply with all relevant fire code regulations, including emergency vehicle access. The applicant
 has worked closely with fire reviewers to ensure the private streets and alleys meet all fire access road requirements.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  5. Whether loading access and service areas are adequate for the site and minimize impacts to the surrounding
     area and public rights-of-way.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 The proposed development consists of single-family dwellings where dedicated “loading or “service” areas are not
 typically necessary. The proposal does, however, funnel all vehicular traffic (including any loading, delivery,
 emergency, or service vehicles) to the private street, keeping it off 1500 West.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.


Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                  February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                           44
                                                           53
  F. Existing Site Features: The proposed planned development preserves natural and built features that
     significantly contribute to the character of the neighborhood and/or environment.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 This standard is intended to preserve features officially recognized as contributing to a historic district or particular
 place. While the house on the site slated for demolition is in disrepair and under enforcement for building code
 violations, the houses facing 500 North are in good repair and contribute to the character of the surrounding
 neighborhood. The configuration of this proposal and modifications requested by the applicant allow efficient use
 of the site without the unnecessary removal of any of the four houses on 500 North.
 Urban Forestry’s review of the project did not identify any trees on the site that would contribute to the
 neighborhood’s character. Because of that assessment, removing trees from the property to accommodate the
 proposed development does not conflict with this standard.

 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  G. Utilities: Existing and/or planned utilities will adequately serve the development and not have a detrimental
     effect on the surrounding area.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 Public Utilities has not identified any significant off-site improvements necessary to preserve the level of
 service for surrounding properties. However, Public Utilities has the legal authority to require upgrades if any
 detrimental impacts on utility service are identified through more detailed construction plan review.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.




Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                   February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                            45
                                                            54
ATTACHMENT F: Supplementary Materials




                            This page is intentionally left blank.




Riverside Cottages Planned Development                               February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                              46
                                              55
                               SALT LAKE CITY ORDINANCE

                                       No. _____ of 2023

(Amending the zoning of property located at 1500, 1516, 1520, & 1522 West 500 North from R-
  1/7,000 Single Family Residential District to R-1/5,000 Single Family Residential District,
amending the zoning of property located at 552 North 1500 West from R-1/7,000 Single Family
Residential District to SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential District, and amending the




                             FT
                   Northwest Community Master Plan Future Land Use Map)

         An ordinance pertaining to property located at 1500, 1516, 1520, & 1522 West 500 North

and 552 North 1500 West (the “Property”) as legally described in Exhibit A, attached hereto,

amending the zoning map from R-1/7,000 Single Family Residential District to R-1/5,000 Single

Family Residential District, for portions of the Property located at 1500, 1516, 1520, & 1522

West 500 North (the “Southern Portion”) as legally described in Exhibit A, attached hereto

pursuant to Petition No. PLNPCM2021-01203; and amending the zoning map from R-1/7,000
      A
Single Family Residential District to SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential District for

the portion of the Property located at 552 North 1500 West and the northerly portions of the

properties located at 1500, 1516, 1520, & 1522 West 500 North (the “Northern Portion”) as

legally described in Exhibit A pursuant to Petition No. PLNPCM2021-01075; and amending the
R
Northwest Community Master Plan Future Land Use Map from Low Density Residential to

Medium Density Residential as to the Northern Portion pursuant to Petition No. PLNPCM2022-

00674.

         WHEREAS, the Salt Lake City Planning Commission (“Planning Commission”) held a
D

public hearing on September 28, 2022, on an application submitted by Bert Holland of Hoyt

Place Development LLC (“Applicant”) to rezone the Southern Portion from R-1/7,000 Single

Family Residential District to R-1/5,000 Single Family Residential District pursuant to Petition

No. PLNPCM2021-01203, to rezone the Northern Portion from R-1/7,000 Single Family




                                               47
                                                56
Residential District to SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential District pursuant to

Petition No. PLNPCM2021-01075, and amend the Northwest Community Master Plan Future

Land Use Map with respect to the Northern Portion from Low Density Residential to Medium

Density Residential pursuant to Petition No. PLNPCM2022-00674; and




                              FT
        WHEREAS, at its September 28, 2022, meeting, the Planning Commission voted in favor

of forwarding a positive recommendation to the Salt Lake City Council (“City Council”) on said

applications; and

        WHEREAS, after a public hearing on this matter, the City Council has determined that

adopting this ordinance is in the city’s best interests.

        NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the City Council of Salt Lake City, Utah:

        SECTION 1. Amending the Zoning Map. The Salt Lake City zoning map, as adopted
      A
by the Salt Lake City Code, relating to the fixing of boundaries and zoning districts, shall be and

hereby is amended to reflect that the area identified as the Southern Portion in Exhibit A attached

hereto shall be and hereby is rezoned from R-1/7,000 Single Family Residential District to R-

1/5,000 Single Family Residential; and that the area identified as the Northern Portion in Exhibit
R
A attached hereto shall be and hereby is rezoned from R-1/7,000 Single Family Residential

District to SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential District.

        SECTION 2. Amending the Northwest Community Master Plan. The Future Land Use

Map of the Northwest Community Master Plan shall be and hereby is amended to change the
D

future land use designation of the area identified as “the Northern Portion” in Exhibit A attached

hereto from Low Density Residential to Medium Density Residential.




                                                  48
                                                   57
          SECTION 3. Condition. Approval of this ordinance is conditioned upon the Applicant

replacing any dwellings demolished on the Property by the Applicant and by obtaining approval

of a Planned Development in accordance with City Code § 21A.55 or its successor.

          SECTION 4. Effective Date. This ordinance shall take effect immediately after it has




                                       FT
been published in accordance with Utah Code Section 10-3-711 and recorded in accordance with

Utah Code Section 10-3-713. The Salt Lake City Recorder is instructed not to publish or record

this ordinance until the condition set forth in Section 3 is satisfied as certified by the Salt Lake

City Planning Director or his designee.



          Passed by the City Council of Salt Lake City, Utah, this ______ day of ______________,

2023.
        A
ATTEST AND COUNTERSIGN:
                                                                          ______________________________
                                                                          CHAIRPERSON


______________________________
CITY RECORDER
R
          Transmitted to Mayor on _______________________.


          Mayor's Action:           _______Approved.               _______Vetoed.

                                                             ______________________________
                                                             MAYOR
______________________________
D

CITY RECORDER                                                                            APPROVED AS TO FORM
                                                                                         Salt Lake City Attorney’s Office
(SEAL)
                                                                                                 March 14, 2023
                                                                                         Date:__________________________________
Bill No. ________ of 2023.                                                               By: ___________________________________
Published: ______________.                                                                   Katherine D. Pasker, Senior City Attorney
Rezone 552 North 1500 West, and 1500, 1516, 1520, & 1522 West 500 North




                                                                49
                                                                 58
EXHIBIT “A”
Affects properties located at
552 North 1500 West                                1520 West 500 North
Tax ID No. 08-34-230-026-0000                      Tax ID No. 08-34-230-004-0000
1500 West 500 North                                1522 West 500 North
Tax ID No. 08-34-230-023-0000                      Tax ID No. 08-34-230-003-0000




                            FT
1516 West 500 North
Tax ID No. 08-34-230-025-0000
Legal Description of “the Property” containing 1500, 1516, 1520, 1522 West 500 North, and
552 North 1500 West:
Beginning at a point on North Right-of-Way Line of 500 North Street, said point being 1359.7
feet South and 1103.91 feet West from the Northeast corner of Section 34, Township 1 North,
Range 1 West, Salt Lake Meridian; thence along the said North Right-of-Way Line
S89°59'51"W 198.88 feet; thence N00°02'12"W 425.21 feet; thence S63°20'00"E 36.63 feet;
thence East 97.78 feet; thence N43°15'00"E 52.00 feet; thence N89°59'38"E 153.68 feet; thence
S00°00'44"W 148.95 feet; thence S89°59'27"W 121.74 feet; thence S00°12'40"E 297.69 feet to
the point of beginning.
Contains 2.327 acres, more or less.
      A
Legal Description of “the Southern Portion” to be rezoned from R-1/7,000 to R-1/5,000:
Beginning at a point on North Right-of-Way Line of 500 North Street, said point being 1359.7
feet South and 1103.91 feet West from the Northeast corner of Section 34, Township 1 North,
Range 1 West, Salt Lake Meridian; thence along the said North Right-of-Way Line
S89°59'51"W 198.88 feet; thence N00°02'12"W 113.67 feet; thence N89°59'27"E 198.53 feet;
thence S00°12'40"E 113.69 feet to the Point of Beginning.
Contains 0.519 acres, more or less.
R
Legal Description of “the Northern Portion” to be rezoned from R-1/7,000 to SR-3 and
subject to the Northwest Community Master Plan Future Land Use Map Amendment from
Low Density Residential to Medium Density Residential:
Beginning at a point 1359.7 feet South and 1103.91 feet West and N00°12'40"W 113.69 feet
from the Northeast corner of Section 34, ; thence S89°59'27"W 198.53 feet; thence
N00°02'12"W 311.55 feet; thence S63°20'00"E 36.63 feet; thence East 97.78 feet; thence
N43°15'00"E 52.00 feet; thence N89°59'38"E 153.68 feet; thence S00°00'44"W 148.95 feet;
D

thence S89°59'27"W 121.74 feet; thence S00°12'40"E 184.00 feet to the point of beginning.
Contains 1.808 acres, more or less.




                                              50
                                              59
ATTACHMENT G: Public Process & Comments
Public Notice, Meetings, Comments
The following is a list of all public meetings and other public input opportunities, related to the proposed project since
of the proposed development was submitted to the City.
• June 20, 2023 – Planning staff sent the 45-day required notice for recognized community organizations to
    the chairs of the Fairpark, Rose Park, and Jordan Meadows Community Councils.
• June 20, 2023 – Property owners and residents within 300 feet of the development were provided early
    notification of the proposal.
Notice of the public hearing for the proposal included:
• February 2, 2024
   o Public hearing notice sign posted on the property
• February 1, 2024
   o Public hearing notice mailed
   o Public notice posted on City and State websites and Planning Division list serve
Public Input:
Planning staff received one comment from the public regarding the proposal. The comment suggested fewer parking
spaces and provided material about pocket parks. It is included with this attachment.




Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                  February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                           51
                                                           60
Barlow, Aaron

From:                 Joshua Stewart
Sent:                 Tuesday, July 25, 2023 7:28 PM
To:                   Barlow, Aaron
Subject:              (EXTERNAL) PLNPCM2023-00251 comments

Follow Up Flag:       Follow up
Flag Status:          Flagged



I   Caution: This is an external email. Please be cautious when clicking links or opening attachments.

Aaron,
I would suggest that the developers look at the pocket park developments by Ross Chapin architect.

They do amazing beautiful work that builds a sense of community for these type of developments.

Here is a video of his projects.

https://m.youtube.com/watch?time continue=l&v=i7TnrbMCLGY&embeds referring euri=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.goo
gle.com%2F&source ve path=Mjg2NjY&feature=emb logo

His website

https://rosschapin.com



I would encourage less parking at this site.

Thanks,

Josh Stewart
Architect




                                                            1
                                                            52
                                                            61
ATTACHMENT H: Department Review Comments
The following departments reviewed this proposal. Any requirement identified by a City Department is required
to be complied with.
Engineering (Scott Weiler):
No comments or objections

Fire (Seth Hutchinson):
Dead-end fire apparatus access roads in excess of 150 feet in length shall be provided with an approved area for turning
around fire apparatus. FD turnarounds must meet SLC Fire Department requirements, and requirements in Appendix D
Section D103.4 and Table D103.4 in the IFC. SLC Fire Department requires that hammer head turnarounds measure 160
feet (80-foot Y) with a minimum of 26 foot wide roadway.
Approved fire apparatus access roads shall be provided for every facility, building or portion of a building hereafter
constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction. The fire apparatus access road shall comply with the requirements of
IFC section 503 and shall extend to within 150 feet of all portions of the facility and all portions of the exterior walls of the
first story of the building as measured by an approved route around the exterior of the building or facility. Fire apparatus
access roads shall have an unobstructed width of not less than 20 feet, exclusive of shoulders, and an unobstructed vertical
clearance of not less than 13 feet 6 inches. Fire apparatus access roads shall not be obstructed in any manner, including the
parking of vehicles, or medians.
If private alley's are to be utilized, they must meet the requirements for FD access roads as described in Section 503 and
Appendix D in the IFC. These must be able to support the largest fire truck that SLC Fire Department has, and be surfaced
and maintained to provide all-weather driving capabilities and have approved FD turnarounds where measured over 150
feet, as described above.

Transportation (Jena Carver):
The existing traffic issues due to the school should not be significantly affected by the addition of 17 additional residential
units. The street has enough capacity for the additional units and a traffic study will likely show that the added cars from
the development are insignificant compared to the existing traffic. Have residents brought up concerns with the
intersections at 700 North? A traffic study could also look at the safety of those intersections. I’ve sent a request for accident
data but have not yet received a response. But again, if it’s an existing problem, the traffic study will only show that the
development is not responsible for the problem and, therefore, is not required to provide mitigation. I hope this makes
sense. In short, I do not recommend a traffic study, but if you would like to require one or if the planning commission does,
then I will work with them on the requirements for the study.

Public Utilities (Andrea Osojnak):
Comments have been provided to assist in the future development of the property. The following comments are provided for
information only and do not provide official project review or approval. Comments are provided to assist in design and
development by providing guidance for project requirements.
•   Public Utility permit, connection, survey, and inspection fees will apply.
•   All utility design and construction must comply with APWA Standards and SLCPU Standard Practices.
•   All utilities must meet horizontal and vertical clearance requirements. Water and sewer lines require 10 ft minimum
    horizontal separation and 18” minimum vertical separation. Sewer must maintain 5 ft minimum horizontal separation and
    12” vertical separation from any non-water utilities. Water must maintain 3 ft minimum horizontal separation and 12”
    vertical separation from any non-sewer utilities.
•   Contact SLCPU Street Light Program Manager, Dave Pearson (801-483-6738), for information regarding streetlights.
•   CC&R’s must address utility service ownership and maintenance responsibility from the public main to each individual unit.
•   Site utility and grading plans will be required for building permit review. Site utility plans should include all existing and
    proposed utilities, including water, irrigation, fire, sewer, stormwater, street lighting, power, gas, and communications.
    Grading plans should include arrows directing stormwater away from neighboring property. Please refer to APWA, SLCDPU
    Standard Practices, and the SLC Design Process Guide for utility design requirements. Other plans such as erosion control
    plans and plumbing plans may also be required, depending on the scope of work. Submit supporting documents and
    calculations along with the plans.
•   Applicant must provide fire flow, culinary water, and sewer demand calculations to SLCDPU for review. The public sewer and
    water system will be modeled with these demands. If the demand is not adequately delivered or if one or more reaches of the
    sewer system reach capacity as a result of the development, a water/sewer main upsizing will be required at the property


Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                         February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                               53
                                                               62
    owner’s expense. Required improvements on the public water and sewer system will be determined by the Development
    Review Engineer and may be downstream of the project.
•   Only one culinary water meter will be allowed for this entire development. A master meter will be required.
•   If a hydrant is required on property upsizing of the water main will be required. No hydrants are allowed on 6” mains.
•   A detector check meter is required if any private fire hydrants are proposed.
•   A minimum of one sewer lateral is required per building. Shared sewer laterals require a Request for Variance.
•   Private sewer services larger than 6" require a Request for Variance.
•   Site stormwater must be collected on site and routed to the public storm drain system. Stormwater cannot discharge across
    property lines or public sidewalks.
•   As this project disturbance is over one acre, stormwater treatment is required prior to discharge to the public storm drain.
    Utilize stormwater Best Management Practices (BMP's) to remove solids and oils. Green Infrastructure should be used
    whenever possible. Green Infrastructure and LID treatment of stormwater is a design requirement and required by the Salt
    Lake City UPDES permit for Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4). The applicant will need to provide options for
    stormwater treatment and retention for the 80th percentile storm. If additional property is not available, there are other
    options such as green roof or other BMP's. Lack of room or cost is generally not an exception for this requirement. If green
    infrastructure is not used, then applicant must provide documentation of what green infrastructure measures were
    considered and why these were not deemed feasible. Please verify that plans include appropriate treatment measures. Please
    visit the following websites for guidance with Low Impact Development: https://deq.utah.gov/water-quality/low-impact-
    development?form=MY01SV&OCID=MY01SV and https://documents.deq.utah.gov/water-
    quality/stormwater/updes/DWQ-2019-000161.pdf?form=MY01SV&OCID=MY01SV.
•   Stormwater detention is required for this project. The allowable release rate is 0.2 cfs per acre. Detention must be sized using
    the 100-year 3-hour design storm using the farmer Fletcher rainfall distribution. Provide a complete Technical Drainage
    Study including all calculations, figures, model output, certification, summary, and discussion.
•   Projects larger than one acre require that a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and Technical Drainage Study
    are submitted for review

Urban Forestry (Rick Nelson)
Urban Forestry has no concern with this plan.

Building (William Warlick)
No comments.




Riverside Cottages Planned Development                                                                           February 14, 2024
PLNPCM2023-00251
                                                                54
                                                                 63
