                                       PLANNING DIVISION

                       PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA

                                 Wednesday, May 27, 2026 at 5:30 PM
                                       City & County Building
                                  451 South State Street, Room 326
                                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84111



MEETING PARTICIPATION

To comment during the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, please join us in person:

•   Individuals: Each person gets two (2) minutes.
•   Recognized Community Organizations: Representative gets ﬁve (5) minutes.

Note: Speakers cannot transfer their time to another person.



SUBMITTING WRITTEN COMMENTS

If you are unable to attend the meeting in person but would like to submit comments on an
agenda item, please email the staff contact listed for that speciﬁc item.

Submission Deadlines:

•   Comments must be received by 12:00 PM on the Wednesday the week before the
    meeting to be included in the Staff Report.

•   Comments received between 12:01 PM on the Wednesday the week before the
    meeting and 12:00 PM on the day of the meeting will be forwarded to the Commission
    (but not included in the Staff Report).

Note: Comments and materials received after the deadlines may not be reviewed prior to
the meeting but will be added to the ofﬁcial record. Emails received will not be read aloud
during the meeting.




SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                          1
MEETING LIVESTREAMS

The Planning Commission meeting livestream will be available on the following platform
the day of the meeting:

•   YouTube – SLC Live Meetings



BEFORE THE MEETING

DINNER – Dinner will be provided for Commissioners and Staff at 5:00 PM in Room 326.
During this time, the Commission may also receive training related to their roles and city
planning topics.



MEETING OPENING

CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL
REPORT OF THE CHAIR & VICE-CHAIR
REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR

OPEN FORUM – Commissioners may discuss general planning, zoning, or land use topics
not listed on the agenda. This discussion is limited to 10 minutes and does not include
public input.

Note: The order of agenda items may be changed at the Commission’s discretion.



CONSENT AGENDA

1. Approval of the Minutes for May 13, 2026.



REGULAR AGENDA

2. Zoning Map Amendment and General Plan Amendment at Approximately 140 B St
   & 272 E 3rd Ave – Tyler and Kara Alden, the property owners, are seeking approval of a
   zoning map amendment and general plan amendment petitions for the above listed
   properties. The property at 140 N B St is the current site of Ellerbeck Bed and Breakfast
   and Café 140 B. The property at 272 E 3rd Avenue is currently a single-family home. No
   new construction or modiﬁcations of the historic buildings on the properties are
   proposed as part of this petition.



SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                           2
    A. Zoning Map Amendment: To allow the house at 272 E 3rd Avenue to operate as a
        retail space and coffee/pastry shop, the applicant is requesting a zoning map
        amendment from RMF-35 to MU-2. Although the property is being proposed for the
        MU-2 zoning district, consideration may be given to rezoning the property to
        another zoning district with similar characteristics. The Ellerbeck B&B and Cafe 140
        B are legal nonconforming uses, and although they are included in this proposal, no
        change to the use or structures on this property is proposed as part of this petition.
        Petition Number: PLNPCM2026-00034
    B. General Plan Amendment: As the proposed zoning map amendment is not aligned
        with the adopted Avenues future land use map, changing the zoning designation
        also requires the general plan to be amended. Petition Number: PLNPCM2026-
        00008
    The subject properties are within Council District 3, represented by Chris Wharton.
    (Staff Contact: Alicia Seeley at 801-535-7922 or Alicia.Seeley@slc.gov)

3. Zoning Text Amendment for Maximum Daily Water Use – Mayor Erin Mendenhall
   has initiated a Zoning Text Amendment to modify the daily maximum water
   consumption allowed by limiting the exemptions to the daily maximum to include only
   agriculture, schools, government owned or operated facilities that primarily provide
   social services, places of worship, and hospitals. The zoning code currently places a
   maximum daily water use of 200,000 gallons per day with exemptions for all
   institutional uses. This proposal applies to all zoning districts and all property in the
   city. (Staff Contact: Nick Norris at 801-535-6173 or nick.norris@slc.gov) Petition
   Number: PLNPCM2026-00274

4. Avenues Community Plan Update – Mayor Mendenhall has initiated a petition to
   complete a comprehensive update to the Avenues Community Plan. The Avenues
   Community Plan is a land use plan for the Avenues community, located in the
   northeastern part of the city, between City Creek to the west, University of Utah to the
   east, Downtown and Central City to the south, and the city's northern border. The
   Avenues Community Plan was originally adopted in 1987. The updated plan will provide
   guidance on existing and anticipated development in the neighborhood for the next 15
   years. The Avenues community is located in Council District 3, represented by Chris
   Wharton. (Staff Contact: Rylee Hall at 801-535-6308 or rylee.hall@slc.gov) Petition
   Number: PLNCPM2026-00200



WORK SESSIONS

5. Climate Forward SLC – Salt Lake City's Sustainability Department will introduce
   Climate Forward SLC, a plan which will update the City's climate strategy originally
   outlined in Climate Positive 2040. While Climate Positive 2040 was not formally
   adopted, the intent is to adopt Climate Forward SLC as part of the city's general plan.
   Climate Forward SLC will identify the challenges and opportunities the community and
   municipal government will face because of climate change, focus on actionable



SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                             3
    strategies, and establish metrics to evaluate progress toward our climate goals. Staff
    will present the ﬁndings from the recently completed Existing Conditions Report and
    discuss next steps with the Commission. The plan will be presented to the Commission
    for a formal recommendation once a draft plan is ﬁnalized and after the required public
    engagement, later this year. (Staff Contact: Catherine Wyffels at 801-535-6540
    or catherine.wyffels@slc.gov)



RECORDS: For Planning Commission agendas, minutes, staff reports, and YouTube recordings, visit
www.slc.gov/pc. Staff Reports will be posted the Friday prior to the meeting and minutes will be posted
two days after they are approved, which usually occurs at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Planning Commission.

ACCESSIBILITY: The City & County Building is an accessible facility. You may make requests for
reasonable accommodations, which may include alternate formats, interpreters, and other auxiliary aids
and services. Please make requests at least two business days in advance. To make a request, please
contact the Planning Division Office at planningadmin@slc.gov or (801) 535-7757.

ACCESIBILIDAD: El edificio de la Ciudad y el Condado es una instalación accesible. Puede solicitar
adaptaciones razonables, que pueden incluir formatos alternativos, intérpretes y otras ayudas y servicios
auxiliares. Por favor, realice su solicitud con al menos dos días hábiles de anticipación. Para hacer una
solicitud, comuníquese con la Oficina de la División de Planificación en planningadmin@slc.gov o al (801)
535-7757.




SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                        4
