                                       PLANNING DIVISION
              PLANNING COMMISSION AMENDED AGENDA

                                 Wednesday, April 8, 2026 at 5:30 PM
                                       City & County Building
                                  451 South State Street, Room 326
                                      Salt Lake City, Utah 84111



MEETING PARTICIPATION

To comment during the Public Hearing portion of the meeting, please join us in person:

    •   Individuals: Each person gets two (2) minutes.
    •   Recognized Community Organizations: Representative gets five (5) minutes.

Note: Speakers cannot transfer their time to another person.



SUBMITTING WRITTEN COMMENTS

If you are unable to attend the meeting in person but would like to submit comments on an
agenda item, please email the staff contact listed for that specific item.

Submission Deadlines:

    •   To be included in the Staff Report: Comments must be received by 12:00 PM on the
        Wednesday the week before the meeting.

    •   To be forwarded to the Commission (but not included in the Staff Report):
        Comments received between 12:01 PM on the Wednesday the week before the
        meeting and 12:00 PM on the day of the meeting.

Note: Comments and materials received after the deadlines may not be reviewed prior to
the meeting but will be added to the official record. Emails received will not be read aloud
during the meeting.




SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                           1
MEETING LIVESTREAMS

The Planning Commission meeting livestream will be available on the following platform
the day of the meeting:

    •   Youtube – SLC Live Meetings



BEFORE THE MEETING

DINNER – Dinner will be provided for Commissioners and Staff at 5:00 PM in Room 326.
During this time, the Commission may also receive training related to their roles and city
planning topics.



MEETING OPENING

CALL TO ORDER
ROLL CALL
REPORT OF THE CHAIR & VICE-CHAIR
REPORT OF THE DIRECTOR

OPEN FORUM – Commissioners may discuss general planning, zoning, or land use topics
not listed on the agenda. This discussion is limited to 10 minutes and does not include
public input.

Note: The order of agenda items may be changed at the Commission’s discretion.



CONSENT AGENDA

1. Approval of the Minutes for March 25, 2026

2. Planned Development and Design Review Modification & Time Extension Request for
   District North at Approximately 523 W 200 N (Public Hearing) – Nicolai Lazarev,
   property owner representative, is requesting a modification to the Design Review
   approval. The Planning Commission approved the project on March 26, 2025. The
   applicant is proposing to change the building materials on the upper two levels of the
   northeast corner from brick and plaster to concrete and to remove private balconies at
   the same location. The applicant is also requesting a one-year extension for the project.
   The project is vested under the former TSA-UC-T zoning regulations that are no longer
   in effect. The subject property is located within Council District 3, represented by Chris
   Wharton. (Staff Contact: Amanda Roman at 801-535-7660 or amanda.roman@slc.gov)
   Case Numbers: PLNPCM2024-01232 & PLNPCM2025-00021


SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                            2
REGULAR AGENDA

3. POSTPONED - Text Amendment Regarding Affordable Housing Incentives Fines -
   Mayor Erin Mendenhall has initiated a petition for a Text Amendment to add the fine of
   $100 per day for violation of the City’s Affordable Housing Incentives (AHI) program into
   the City’s Zoning Code. Currently, the Zoning Code refers to the City’s “Consolidated
   Fee Schedule” (CFS) for the fine, but that document legally cannot list fines. This text
   amendment will remove reference to the CFS and add a line directly into Chapter
   21A.20 “Enforcement” of the city zoning code. (Staff Contact: Jason Berntson at 801-
   535-6247 or jason.berntson@slc.gov) Case Number: PLNPCM2025-01180



WORK SESSIONS

4. Community Plan Update Schedule – Planning staff will go over the schedule to update
   all existing community plans over the next five years. Salt Lake City has adopted 10
   community plans, with the most recent comprehensive update adopted in 2017. The
   schedule includes adopting, updating or reporting on station area plans, which the city
   is required to adopt for all fixed rail transit stations in the city and for stations outside
   of the city where a portion of the ½ mile radius is within Salt Lake City. To date, the city
   has certified 14 station area plans and has approved exemptions for six other stations.
   The Planning Commission recently recommended adopting the Northwest Community
   Plan, which includes a station area plan for the four stations located on North Temple.
   (Staff contact: Nick Norris at 801-535-6173 or nick.norris@slc.gov)



OTHER BUSINESS

5. Petition Initiation Regarding Community Correctional Facilities – The commission
   will consider initiating a text amendment to update the land use tables to remove
   community correctional facilities as an allowed use. The commission is authorized to
   initiate text amendments under Title 21A.50.030. If initiated by the commission, this
   petition would not impact lands owned by the United States or lands owned by the
   State of Utah.



RECORDS: For Planning Commission agendas, minutes, staff reports, and YouTube recordings, visit
www.slc.gov/pc. Staff Reports will be posted the Friday prior to the meeting and minutes will be posted
two days after they are approved, which usually occurs at the next regularly scheduled meeting of the
Planning Commission.




SALT LAKE CITY | PLANNING COMMISSION                                                                      3
