                                                       Staff Report        PLANNING DIVISION
                                                  DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY and NEIGHBORHOODS



To:                 Salt Lake City Planning Commission
From:               Diana Martinez, Senior Planner, diana.martinez@slcgov.com, 801-535-7215
Date:               April 22, 2026
Re:                 PLNPCM2026-00073 Chadwick Avenue Alley Vacation

                                                ALLEY VACATION
PROPERTY ADDRESSES: The alley abuts six properties: 2553 S. Chadwick St., 2554 S. Dearborn
St., and 1407, 1433, 1439, 1445 E. Stratford Avenue.
MASTER PLAN: Sugar House Master Plan
ZONING DISTRICT: 21A.24.060: R-1/7,000 SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT:
COUNCIL DISTRICT: District #7, represented by Sarah Young

REQUEST:
Anne and Zach Taylor, the applicants, are requesting approval to vacate (or to give up public ownership
of) two portions of public alleyways. The first is approximately 12' x 262' for the portion running from
Chadwick Street to Dearborn Street, and the second is approximately 12' x 51' for the portion running
along the east property line of the applicant's property. If approved, these sections of the two
alleys would be divided and allocated to the property owners abutting the vacated portions of the
alleyways. This property is zoned R-1-7,000 (Residential) and is located within Council 7, represented
by Sarah Young.


RECOMMENDATION:

Based on the findings and analysis in this report, the Planning Staff recommends that the Planning
Commission forward a favorable recommendation to the City Council.


ATTACHMENTS:
A. Vicinity Map
B. Property & Vicinity Photos
C. Historic Photos
D. Applicant Narrative
E. Analysis of Standards
F. Public Process and Comments
G. Department Review


SALT LAKE CITY CORPORATION
451 SOUTH STATE STREET, ROOM 406                                                          WWW.SLCGOV.COM
PO BOX 145480 SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84114-5480                                   TEL 801.535.7700 FAX 801.535.6174
BACKGROUND AND PROJECT DESCRIPTION:




                        Applicant’s property is shown with an X.
           The portion of the alleys requested to be vacated is shown in yellow


Anne and Zach, the applicants requesting the alley vacation, live to the north and east of the alleyways
in question. They would like to build a new garage (possibly with an accessory dwelling unit on the
second level) in their rear yard; however, because a platted alley runs along their south and east
property lines, they are limited in where they can place an accessory structure.




                                                                                                           2
There is currently an accessory structure on the applicant’s property that encroaches the alleyway to
the south and the one to the east. This could be the original structure, as seen in historic aerial
photographs from 1958. The large, wide horizontal wood slats are indicative of early materials used in
the mid-1900s construction. The garage most likely was expanded to the east and north a few decades
later, as evidenced by additions with large, wide vertical wood siding, which was used in the 1960s and
1970s. These additions are visible in the 1999 historical aerial.




                     Existing garage -most likely built in the mid-1950s.

The property to the east of the applicant’s property, which also has both alleys running along its south
and west property lines, also has a garage that encroaches the East-to-West alleyway (see last photo in
Attachment B). It is not clear whether this is the original garage shown in the 1958 historic aerial
photograph, but a structure has been in the same location since the 1950s. Likewise, the neighbors who
abut this alleyway portion from their rear yards and front onto Stratford Avenue all have accessory
structures (garages or sheds) that encroach on the alleyway.




     Alleyways are shown in red. The rooftops of the accessory buildings currently
                        impeding the alley are quite visible.
                                                                                                       3
The East-to-West alleyway, which runs between Chadwick Street and Dearborn Street, has served as
the driveways for 2553 S. Chadwick St. and 2554 S. Dearborn St. for at least 68 years, as shown in the
Utah Geological Survey 1958 aerial.




                       The East-to-West alleyway is shown in orange.
                               UGS Historic Aerial from 1958

Both the East-to-West alleyway and the North-to-South alleyway which abuts the properties 2553 S.
Chadwick St. and 2554 S. Dearborn St. along the South, and east/west property lines respectively, have
been “paper alleys” (meaning an alley that appears on maps, and that was platted on a subdivision
plat, but has never been physically constructed or developed) possibly since they were platted in 1909.
For sure, since 1958.
The alley was platted as part of the Highland Park Subdivision:




                                                                                                         4
The Highland Park Plat A was recorded in 1909 and contains hundreds of lots. This subdivision is
quite large, running from Highland Drive (1300 East) to Preston Street to the East (0.94 miles), and
from Parkway Avenue to Stratford Avenue (0.39 miles). Within each block of lots, an alleyway was
platted to run between the lots, providing street frontage and rear access to each lot. In past years,
many of these alleys have been vacated within the subdivision, and many have remained undeveloped
as “paper alleys”.
The North-to-South alley between Chadwick Street and Dearborn Street block is only accessible from
the North side, by way of Parkway Avenue. Only five properties have access to the alleyway from
Parkway Avenue. All the other lots that abut the alleyways in this block have been blocked by a fence
across the alley (located at the five properties that access it) and by private fences that have gone up in
the middle of the alley, used by the properties that abut it. This proposed alley vacation would not
impact on those five properties that access and use the alley from Parkway Avenue.




  View of the northern portion of the alley between the block of Chadwick Street and
 Dearborn Street. The only accessible portion of the alleyway is noted in yellow. The
           rest of the alley to the South is blocked by a fence -shown in red.




                                                                                                              5
The applicants are requesting that the alley between Chadwick Street and Dearborn Street, which is
approximately 262 feet in length and 12 feet in width, be vacated, and the alley portion that touches the
first alley and then runs along the applicant’s east property line, which is approximately 51 feet in length
and 12 feet in width, be vacated.
The East-to-West alley abuts six properties:
   •   2553 S. Chadwick St.
   •   2554 S. Dearborn St.
   •   1407 E. Stratford Avenue
   •   1433 E. Stratford Avenue
   •   1439 E. Stratford Avenue
   •   1445 E. Stratford Avenue

Five of the property owners have signed the petition in support of this vacation request.

Powerlines typically run along alleyways and rear lot lines; therefore, easements for them are quite
common for accessibility. Access to these power lines will need to remain available if the alley request
is approved.


APPLICABLE REVIEW PROCESSES AND STANDARDS:

Review Processes: Alley Vacation

Alley Vacation requests must fulfill one of four policy considerations in section 14.52.020 of the City
Code: Lack of Use, Public Safety, Urban Design, or Community Purpose. Requests are also reviewed
against the factors found in 14.52.030.B. Staff’s analysis of the policy considerations, and other factors
can be found in Attachment E – Analysis of Standards.
Alley Vacation requests are ultimately up to the City Council’s discretion and are not controlled by any
one standard. If the Alley Vacation is approved, the City will convey half of the alley to the abutting
property owners on each side.



KEY CONSIDERATIONS:
The key considerations and concerns below have been identified through the analysis of the project,
neighbor & community input, and department reviews:
    1. Property Owner Consent
    2. Policy Considerations
    3. Master Plan Considerations


Consideration 1: Property Owner Consent
Section 14.52.030.A.1 of the City Code specifies that “the petition must bear the signatures of no less
than seventy-five percent (75%) of the neighbors owning property which abuts the subject alley
property.” Five properties abut the portion of the alley requested to be vacated. All five abutting property
owners (100% of the property owners abutting the portion of the alley in the request) have signed the
petition in support of the vacation. This issue is also addressed in Attachment C – Analysis of Standards.

                                                                                                          6
Consideration 2: Policy Considerations
The request satisfies policy consideration A) Lack of Use outlined in section 14.52.020. This is outlined
in Attachment E – Analysis of Standards.


Consideration 3: Master plan Considerations

Sugar House Master Plan:
In Sugar House, alleys have traditionally been incorporated into development patterns, and many
alleyways currently serve both residential and commercial use. This is one of the factors that contribute
to the pedestrian orientation that many well-established neighborhoods embody. However, due to
maintenance issues, the abutting property owners of an alley frequently request that the City vacate the
property. It has been the practice of the City that if approved, the alley is divided equally, and ownership
is transferred to the adjacent property owners.
Plan Salt Lake
Initiative 8.8 echoes this sentiment, recommending “increased connectivity through mid-block
connections” (p.31). However, since this alley does not run through from Parkway Avenue to Stratford
Avenue, it is only a beneficial right-of-way for the neighbors who live along it.


DISCUSSION:
The alley closure has been reviewed against the standards for alley vacations in Attachment C. In
compliance with the applicable policies, the alley is not being used for public purposes, and adjacent
property owners support the closure. Further, the proposed vacation does not conflict with City policies
in the Sugar House Master Plan or Plan Salt Lake. Planning Staff recommends that the Planning
Commission forward a positive recommendation for this Alley Vacation request to the City Council.



NEXT STEPS:
Chapter 14.52 of the Salt Lake City Code regulates the disposition of City-owned alleys. When evaluating
requests to close or vacate public alleys, the City considers whether the continued use of the property as
a public alley is in the City’s best interest. Public hearings are being held before the Planning Commission
and City Council to consider the potential adverse impacts of a proposal. Once the Planning Commission
has reviewed the request, it forwards its recommendation to the City Council for consideration. The City
Council has final decision authority regarding alley vacations and closures.




                                                                                                          7
ATTACHMENT A – Vicinity Map




                              8
ATTACHMENT B – Property & Vicinity Photos




View looking East - alleyway that serves as the driveway to 2553 S. Chadwick Street.




   View looking East- showing accessory structures impeding into the alleyway



                                                                                       9
        View looking East- showing power lines aligned within the alley




View looking East- showing power lines and accessory structures impeding on the
                      alley portion requested to be vacated




                                                                                  10
View looking East from 2553 S. Chadwick to the property to the East 2554 S. Dearborn
                St. Both accessory structures impede the alleyway




  View looking West – 2554 S. Dearborn St. on the right of the photo. The accessory
   structure on the left and the garage behind the vehicles are all impeding on the
         alleyway that comes through from the West (2553 S. Chadwick St.)




                                                                                      11
View looking West – close up of accessory structure and garage impeding on alleyway




View looking to the South from Parkway Avenue, showing the fence blocking the rest
 of the alleyway from use. Only 5 properties have access to this section of the alley.




                                                                                     12
ATTACHMENT C – Historic Photos

Historic Aerials from the Utah Geological Survey




                                            1958 Aerial




                                                          13
1999 Aerial




              14
ATTACHMENT D – Applicant Narrative & Petition




                                                15
16
17
ATTACHMENT E – Analysis of Standards
14.52.020: Policy Considerations for Closure, Vacation, or Abandonment of City-Owned
Alleys
The City will not consider disposing of its interest in an alley, in whole or in part unless it receives a
petition in writing which demonstrates that the disposition satisfies at least one of the following policy
considerations:
 Factor                                        Discussion                                           Finding
 14.52.020: The City will not consider         The proposed alley vacation is consistent with
 disposing of its interest in an alley, in     policy consideration A. Lack of Use and C.           Complies
 whole or in part, unless it receives a        Urban Design
 petition in writing which demonstrates
 that the disposition satisfies at least one   The alleyways were created in 1909 within the
 of the following policy considerations:       Highland Park Subdivision Plat and have always
                                               been “paper alleys,” never developing into a
 A.   Lack of Use: The City’s legal            right-of-way to serve any of the abutting
      interest in the property appears of      properties.
      record or is reflected on an
      applicable plat; however, it is          Since before 1958, historic aerials have shown
      evident from an on-site inspection       the East-to-West alleyway has served as the
      that the alley does not physically       driveway for 2553 S. Chadwick and 2554 S.
      exist or has been materially             Dearborn St. The alley and the one platted
      blocked in a way that renders it         North-to-South has never been used for either
      unusable as a public right-of-way.       vehicular or pedestrian passage.

 B.   Public Safety: The existence of          This property will most likely not serve as an
      the alley is substantially               urban design element for the city, due to it being
      contributing to crime, unlawful          used as two driveways and the North-to-South
      activity or unsafe conditions,           alley not connecting to the northern portion of
      public health problems, or blight in     the platted alley.
      the surrounding area.

 C.   Urban Design: The continuation
      of the alley does not serve as a
      positive urban design element.

 D. Community Purpose: The
    Petitioners are proposing to
    restrict the general public from
    using the alley in favor of
    community use, such as a
    neighborhood play area or garden.




                                                                                                               18
14.52.030.B: Processing Petitions – Public Hearing and Recommendation from the
Planning Commission.
Upon receipt of a complete petition, a public hearing shall be scheduled before the Planning Commission
to consider the proposed disposition of the City-owned alley property. Following the conclusion of the
public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make a report and recommendation to the City Council
on the proposed disposition of the subject alley property. A positive recommendation should include an
analysis of the following factors:
 Factor                                      Discussion                                                Finding
 1. The City Police Department, Fire         Staff requested input from pertinent City                 Does not
    Department, Transportation               Departments and Divisions. Only the Engineering           comply
    Division, and all other relevant City    Division denied the application with the following
    Departments and Divisions have no        reasons:
    objection to the proposed disposition    1. There is what looks to be aerial overhead
    of the property;                         distribution power lines running the length of the
                                             alleyway which would does not support access for
                                             RMP to their facilities due to the existing garages
                                             built in the alley that appear to be unpermitted.
                                             2. The proposal of the petitioner is to tear down the
                                             existing garage and build a new ADU that continues
                                             to encroach into the alleyway. This would continue
                                             to block access for RMP to access their facilities and
                                             provide service to neighbors.
                                             3. There is a RMP pole approximately halfway down
                                             the alley to support aerial power connections to
                                             residents along the N-S alley/easement located
                                             between the rear boundary limits of two properties.
                                             4. The primary reason for proposing denial of the
                                             alley vacation is to protect the continued aerial
                                             power lines and intermediate poles half way down
                                             the alleys.
 2. The petition meets at least one of the   The alley meets policy consideration A. Lack of           Complies
    policy considerations stated above;      Use and C. Urban Design. After an in-person
                                             inspection of the alley and reviewing historical aerial
                                             photographs, it appears that there are several
                                             accessory structures that have been built into the
                                             alleyway since as early as 1958. It also appears that
                                             the alley has never gone from Chadwick Street to
                                             Dearborn Street, or had access to the North-to-
                                             South alleyway that runs along the east property line
                                             of 2553 S. Chadwick Street.

 3. The petition must not deny sole          The petition, if approved, would not prevent any of       Complies
    access or required off-street parking    the properties abutting the alley from accessing
    to any adjacent property;                their properties.


 4. The petition will not result in any      All lots abutting the subject alley have access to a      Complies
    property being landlocked;               public street. No property would be landlocked as a
                                             result of this Alley Vacation request.




                                                                                                                  19
5. The disposition of the alley property    Vacating the subject alley will not create or result in   Complies
   will not result in a use that is         any use contrary to City policies. Therefore, the
   otherwise contrary to the policies of    residential character of the block would remain
   the City, including applicable master
                                            essentially the same.
   plans and other adopted statements
   of policy that address, but are not
   limited to, mid-block walkways,
   pedestrian paths, trails, and
   alternative transportation uses;


6. No opposing abutting property            There has been no opposition to this alley vacation       Complies
   owner intends to build a garage          request.
   requiring access from the property or
   has made an application for a
   building permit, or if such a permit
   has been issued, construction has
   been completed within 12 months of
   issuance of the building permit;



7. The petition furthers the City’s         Only a portion of the alley is being requested to be      Does   not
   preference for disposing of an entire    vacated. The rest of the alley, currently used as an      comply
   alley rather than a small segment of     alleyway to the North off of Parkway Avenue, would
   it; and                                  continue to serve as an alley and accessway for some
                                            of the abutting residential properties.

8. The alley is optional for actual or      The portion of alley requested to be vacated has not      Complies
   potential rear access to residences or   been used for actual or potential rear access to
   accessory uses.                          residences and accessory uses in approximately 68
                                            years.




                                                                                                                 20
ATTACHMENT F – Public Process and Comments
The following attachment lists the public meetings that have been held and other public input
opportunities related to the proposed project. In addition, all written comments received throughout
this process are included in this attachment.

•   Notice of the Alley Vacation request was sent to the Sugar House Community Council Chair on
    February 2, 2026. The Chair send this response:

    We have read the petition, and visited the site. It appears that this is too narrow to ever
    become a real driveway, and there is no other parcel that
    has any access And we see the signatures fro all the neighbors, we have no objection and
    you can consider this our approval letter.


    Judi Short, First-Vice Chair and Land Use Chair
    Sugar House Community Council




•   An early notification announcement was sent to all abutting property owners of the subject portion
    of the alley requesting to be vacated on February 3, 2026, with information about how to provide
    public comments.

•   Notice of the public hearing for the proposal included:
    o Public hearing notice mailed on April 16, 2026
    o Public notice posted on City and State websites and Planning Division listserv on April 16, 2026
    o Public notice was posted on the property on April 10, 2026

•   Planning Staff has received three phone calls inquiring about the application. No one opposed.
•   Planning Staff has received one email in support of the application:




                                                                                                     21
22
ATTACHMENT G – City Department Review

Transportation: Jena Carver // 801-535-6694:
No issues.


Engineering: Peter Murphy // 801-535-6276
1. There is what looks to be aerial overhead distribution power lines running the length of the alleyway
which would does not support access for RMP to their facilities due to the existing garages built in the
alley that appear to be unpermitted.
2. The proposal of the petitioner is to tear down the existing garage and build a new ADU that
continues to encroach into the alleyway. This would continue to block access for RMP to access their
facilities and provide service to neighbors.
3. There is a RMP pole approximately halfway down the alley to support aerial power connections to
residents along the N-S alley/easement located between the rear boundary limits of two properties.
4. The primary reason for proposing denial of the alley vacation is to protect the continued aerial
power lines and intermediate poles half way down the alleys.


Public Utilities: Kristeen Beitel // 801-483-6733
Public Utilities has no issues with the proposed vacation.


Building Services – Fire: Seth Hutchinson// 801-535-7164
3-30-2026- The proposed Alley Vacation is acceptable to Fire; however, any future development or
building permit application shall meet the minimum construction and life safety codes adopted by the
State of Utah.


Police : Andrew Cluff:
No comment

Real Estate Services: Trevor Ovenden // trevor.ovenden@slc.gov // 801-535-7168
No comments from Real Estate Services




                                                                                                      23
