                                 Staff Report                                     PLANNING DIVISION
                                               DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY and NEIGHBORHOODS


To:         Salt Lake City Planning Commission
From:       Nick Norris, Planning Director
Date:       April 8, 2026
Re:         Petition Initiation regarding removing “Community Correctional Facilities” as an
            allowed land use in Title 21A Zoning



                         Petition Initiation
REQUEST:
A request by the Planning Commission to initiate a text amendment removing community
correction facilities as an allowed use in Title 21A Zoning.

PROJECT DESCRIPTION
In February the Planning Commission voted to add a petition initiation to a future agenda to
address detention centers located in Salt Lake City. At the March 25, 2026 meeting, planning
staff were asked about the status of doing research on the scope of such a text amendment and its
application to federal and state-owned lands. The discussion focused on the “community
Correctional Facility land use as defined in Title 21A Zoning. The commission specifically asked
about addressing this land use in a potential text amendment.
A community correctional facility is defined as:
        An institutional facility licensed by or contracted by the state of Utah to provide
        temporary occupancy for previously incarcerated persons or parole violators, which
        assists such persons in making a transition from a correctional institution environment
        to independent living. Such facility may also provide ancillary, temporary occupancy
        for individuals placed as part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment
        in a correctional institution. A community correctional facility may include a halfway
        house, work release center or any other domiciliary facility for persons released from
        any penal or correctional facility but still in the custody of the city, county or public
        agency and youth care centers or other facilities authorized to accept youth offenders.
        A community correctional facility includes a facility for the judicially required detention
        or incarceration of people who are under twenty four (24) hour supervision by sworn
        officers except when on an approved leave, confinement of offenders where force may
        be used to restrain them if they attempt to leave the institution without authorization,
        twenty four (24) hour supervision and confinement for youth offenders committed to
        the division for custody and rehabilitation, or services for parole violating offenders
        and/or noncompliant probationers.
The land use is categorized as either a small facility, with 30 beds or less, or a large facility with
more than 30 beds. The land use is only allowed in the MU-11 and M-1 zoning districts. The use

                                                     1                                       March 27, 2026
is further restricted by not being allowed within ½ mile of any residential zoning district. This
prohibition eliminates the land use in most MU-11 zoning districts, with about a two block area
near 400 South and 400 West and some areas between 1-15 and 900 West that are south of 1700
South being more than ½ mile from a residential zone.
State code 10-20-305 states that nothing in 10-20 (Municipal Land Use, Development, and
Management Act) may be construed as giving a municipality jurisdiction over property owned by
the state of Utah or the United States. This means that unless specifically stated, local zoning
regulations do not apply to lands owned by the state or the United States. Based on the definition
in city code and this provision in Utah Code, the city’s zoning regulations would apply to any non-
state or non-federal government entity operating a community correction facility in Utah.
Utah Code 64-13d regulates private correction facilities in Utah. It authorizes the Utah
Department of Corrections to enter private contracts for a private correction facility. However,
before entering a contract it requires the department to:
   •   Hold a public hearing in the city or county where the facility is proposed to be located;
   •   Considers public input received during the public hearing prior to finalizing the contract;
       and
   •   Requires the department to receive written notification from the legislative body of the
       city stating that the city has agreed to the establishment of the facility within the city
       boundaries.
Given the requirement that the City Council agree to the establishment of a private correction
facility, having the land use as an allowed land use in the land use tables could be viewed as the
city council having already agreed to the establishment of a private prison in the city by adopting
the land use tables with the use listed as an allowed use. Removing the use as an allowed use in
the land use tables would eliminate that possibility.
There are currently no private correctional facilities in Utah. The Utah Department of Corrections
operates two prisons in Utah and six community correction facilities, three of which are in Salt
Lake City. The three facilities in SLC are:
   •   Fortitude Treatment Center; located at 1747 South 900 West with a capacity of up to 300
       beds.
   •   Bonneville Correction Center; located at 1141 South 2475 West with a capacity of 74 beds.
   •   Orange Street Community Correctional Facility; located at 80 South Orange Street (1900
       West) with a capacity of 60 beds for women.
These three community correctional facilities account for about 60% of all the community
correctional beds in the state that are operated by the Utah Department of Corrections. In
addition, the Utah State Prison accounts for 2/3rds of all state prison beds in Utah.
To initiate the petition, a commissioner must make a motion and that motion than must be seconded
by another commissioner. After that, a majority of the commission members present must vote to
initiate the petition.




                                                2                                     March 27, 2026
