                            Memorandum                                          PLANNING DIVISION
                                                      DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY and NEIGHBORHOODS



  To:       Salt Lake City Planning Commission
  From: Aaron Barlow, Senior Planner
        aaron.barlow@slcgov.com, 801-535-6182
  Date: June 24, 2026
  Re:       PLNPCM2023-00900 – Extension Request for Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development

Extension Request: Planned Development
 PROPERTY ADDRESS: 843 & 845 W Hoyt Pl (851 & 853 W Hoyt Pl in some records)
 PARCEL ID: 08-35-406-008-0000 & 08-35-406-007-0000
 MASTER PLAN: Northwest & North Temple Boulevard
 ZONING DISTRICT: SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential District
 COUNCIL DISTRICT: District 2, Alejandro Puy
 ACTION REQUIRED
 Vote on granting a one-year time extension of Planned Development approval for Hoyt Place
 Phase II at approximately 843 & 845 West Hoyt Place.
 RECOMMENDATION:
 Grant a one-year time extension for Planned Development approval.
 BACKGROUND/DISCUSSION:
 On April 10, 2024, the Salt Lake City Planning Commission reviewed and granted Planned
 Development approval for the following project:
    Bert Holland, representing the property owner, is requesting Planned Development
    approval for a five-lot development consisting of detached single-family houses
    accessed by a private road at the above-listed address. This application is required to
    allow new lots without street frontage, reduced setbacks, and other necessary
    modifications to relevant zoning regulations.
 The commission applied the following conditions to their approval of the proposal:
    1. Provide access easements for parking pads that cross property lines and reference such
       easements on the associated final plat.
    2. To ensure additional pedestrian interest along Hoyt Place, add an entry feature around
       the north door (“Left Elevation”) of unit 201. Final approval would be delegated to staff.
 Planned Development approvals expire in one year “unless a building permit has been issued or
 complete building plans have been submitted to the division of building services and licensing.”
 On April 9, 2025, the Planning Commission granted an extension to maintain the original
 approval for one year.
 The applicant has not submitted complete building plans to the Building Services Division and
 has not obtained any building permits for work on the development at this time. As such, in an
 email dated January 20, 2026, they requested an extension to maintain the original approval for
 an additional year.

 Time Extension: Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Devleopment                                  June 24, 2026
 PLNPCM2023-00900
                                                           1
The Planning Commission may grant extensions for Planned Development approvals for up to
one additional year. An extension would push the expiration date to April 10, 2027. If the
extension is approved, the applicant will need to obtain a building permit or submit complete
building plans to Building Services before that date or request another extension.
ATTACHMENTS:
1. Time Extension Request Letter
2. Original Record of Decision Letters
3. Original Staff Report
NEXT STEPS
Approval of the Request
If the extension is approved, the applicant will need to obtain a building permit or submit
complete building plans to Building Services before April 10, 2027, or request another extension.
Denial of the Request
If the extension is denied, the applicant would need to resubmit a Planned Development
application for the original project or develop an entirely new proposal.




Time Extension: Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Devleopment                               April 9, 2025
PLNPCM2023-00900
                                                          2
Attachment 1: Time Extension Request




                  This page is intentionally left blank.




Time Extension: Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Devleopment       April 9, 2025
PLNPCM2023-00900
                                                          3
Barlow, Aaron

From:             dave robinson <dave.ssconsulting@gmail.com>
Sent:             Tuesday, January 20, 2026 10:57 AM
To:               Bert Holland
Cc:               Barlow, Aaron
Subject:          (EXTERNAL) Re: Hoyt Place Phase II Record of Decision Letter

Follow Up Flag:   Follow up
Flag Status:      Flagged



   Caution: This is an external email. Please be cautious when clicking links or opening attachments.

Aaron,

We will need the same with this one at Hoyt Place; one year extension

Hopefully, we can have the private road, utilities, and fire issues worked out soon, but in the meantime,
we are requesting a one year extension

best

dave

On Thu, Feb 27, 2025 at 12:14 PM Bert Holland <bert.theaiconsult@gmail.com> wrote:
 Aaron,

 I am early on this one, but I should request an extension on it now.

 Let me know what I need to do.

 Regards,

 Bert

 ---------- Forwarded message ---------
 From: Barlow, Aaron <Aaron.Barlow@slcgov.com>
 Date: Tue, Apr 16, 2024 at 1:44 PM
 Subject: Hoyt Place Phase II Record of Decision Letter
 To: bert.theaiconsult@gmail.com <bert.theaiconsult@gmail.com>
 Cc: Dave C <dave.ssconsulting@gmail.com>, Bert Holland <getms.x@gmail.com>


 Hi Bert and Dave,

 I’ve attached the Record of Decision letter for the Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development. Let me
 know if you have any questions or notice any errors or issues with the letter. Thank you!
                                                        1
                                                        4
Sincerely,


                      AARON BARLOW, AICP | (He/Him/His)

                      Principal Planner
                      PLANNING DIVISION | SALT LAKE CITY CORPORATION
                      Office: 801-535-6182


                      Cell: 801-872-8389
                      Email: aaron.barlow@slcgov.com
                      SLC.GOV/PLANNING   WWW.SLC.GOV




Disclaimer: The Planning Division strives to give the best customer service possible and to respond to questions as accurately as
possible based upon the information provided. However, answers given at the counter and/or prior to application are not binding and
they are not a substitute for formal Final Action, which may only occur in response to a complete application to the Planning Division.
Those relying on verbal input or preliminary written feedback do so at their own risk and do not vest any property with development
rights.




                                                                  2
                                                                  5
Attachment 2: Record of Decision Letters




                  This page is intentionally left blank.




Time Extension: Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Devleopment       April 9, 2025
PLNPCM2023-00900
                                                          6
ERIN MENDENHALL                                                   DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY
Mayor                                                                   and NEIGHBORHOODS
                                                                            PLANNING DIVISION



April 16, 2024
Bert Holland
The AI Consult
1415 South 1000 East
Salt Lake City, UT, 84103

RE: Record of Decision for Petition PLNPCM2023-00900 Hoyt Place Phase II
Planned Development at 843 West Hoyt Place
Dear Mr. Holland:
On October April 10, 2024, the Salt Lake City Planning Commission granted Planned
Development approval for the property at approximately 843 West Hoyt Place.
This Record of Decision is provided to you as a record of the date action was taken, the decision
of the Planning Commission, including any approval conditions, the one-year time limit on the
approval, the limitations on modifications to the plans, and the 10-day appeal period.
Project Description
The Planning Commission reviewed and approved the following project:
   Bert Holland, representing the property owner, is requesting Planned Development
   approval for a five-lot development consisting of detached single-family houses
   accessed by a private road at the above-listed address. This application is required to
   allow new lots without street frontage, reduced setbacks, and other necessary
   modifications to relevant zoning regulations.
Conditions of Approval
The following conditions were applied to the approval of the proposal:
    1. Provide access easements for parking pads that cross property lines and reference
       such easements on the associated final plat.
    2. To ensure additional pedestrian interest along Hoyt Place, add an entry feature
       around the north door (“Left Elevation”) of unit 201. Final approval would be
       delegated to staff.
Review Process Standards and Findings of Fact
The Planning Commission made specific findings related to the review standards for Planned
Developments as stated in Chapter 21A.55 of the Zoning Ordinance. The decision was also based
on the purpose of the zoning ordinance, the purpose of the zoning district where the project is
located, the information contained in the staff report, the project details provided by you,
testimony from the public, and the discussion of the Planning Commission. Copies of this
information will be made available online here: https://www.slc.gov/planning/planning-
commission-agendas-minutes/.
Modifications to the Approved Plans
To obtain a building permit, all plans must be consistent with those reviewed and approved by the
Planning Commission. The plan approved by the Planning Commission constitutes the site design
concerning building placement and design, landscaping, mobility and circulation elements, and
any elements approved as zoning modifications through the Planned Development process.
Modifications to the plan require an application to the Planning Division, and the Planning
Director can only approve narrowly defined minor modifications as listed in 21A.55.100B of the
SALT LAKE CITY CORPORATION
451 SOUTH STATE STREET, ROOM 406                                                   WWW.SLC.GOV
P.O. BOX 1580, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH 84114                                         TEL 801.535.7757
                                                7
Zoning Ordinance. Any modification not listed as a minor modification requires approval by the
Planning Commission.
One Year Time Limit on Approval
No planned development approval shall be valid for a period longer than one year from the
approval date unless a building permit is issued or complete building plans and building permit
applications have been submitted to the Division of Building Services and Licensing. The Planning
Commission may grant an extension of one year. Extension requests must be submitted in writing
before the planned development approval expires.
10-Day Appeal Process
Any affected party can appeal the Planning Commission’s decision within the ten days required
by the city's zoning ordinance. This appeal period allows time for any affected party to protest the
decision if they so choose. The Appeals Hearing Officer would hear the appeal. Any appeal,
including the filing fee, must be submitted by the close of business on Friday, April 26, 2024.
The summary of action for the Planning Commission meeting is located on the Planning Division’s
website at: https://www.slc.gov/planning/public-meetings/planning-commission-agendas-
minutes/.
If you have any questions, please don’t hesitate to contact me at 801-535-6182 or
aaron.barlow@slcgov.com.
Sincerely,




Aaron Barlow, AICP
Principal Planner

cc:    File




                                                 8
Attachment 3: Original Staff Report




                  This page is intentionally left blank.




Time Extension: Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Devleopment       April 9, 2025
PLNPCM2023-00900
                                                          9
                                   Staff Report                       PLANNING DIVISION
                                            DEPARTMENT of COMMUNITY and NEIGHBORHOODS



 To:         Salt Lake City Planning Commission
 From:       Aaron Barlow, Principal Planner
             aaron.barlow@slcgov.com, 801-535-6182
 Date:       April 10, 2024
 Re:         PLNPCM2023-00900 – Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development– 843 W Hoyt Pl

                          Planned Development
PROPERTY ADDRESS: 843 & 845 W Hoyt Pl (851 & 853 W Hoyt Pl in some records)
PARCEL ID: 08-35-406-008-0000 & 08-35-406-007-0000
MASTER PLAN: Northwest & North Temple Boulevard
ZONING DISTRICT: SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential District
COUNCIL DISTRICT: District 2, Alejandro Puy
REQUEST
Bert Holland, representing the property owner, is requesting Planned Development approval for
a five-lot development consisting of detached single-family houses that would be accessed by a
private road at the above-listed address This application is required to allow new lots without
street frontage, reduced setbacks, and other necessary modifications to relevant zoning
regulations.
If the Planning Commission approves this request, they would approve the development plan
for this site. The development plan constitutes the site design in relation to building placement
and design, landscaping, mobility and circulation elements, and any aspects that were
approved as zoning modifications through this process, including:
     • Lots without street frontage                • Minimum lot width
     • Minimum lot size                            • Minimum rear yard setback
RECOMMENDATION:
Based on the information and findings listed in the staff report, Planning Staff finds, with the
recommended conditions, that the proposal generally meets the Planned Development Standards.
Therefore, staff recommends that the Planning Commission approve the request with the
following conditions:
    1. Provide access easements for parking pads that cross property lines and reference such
       easements on the associated final plat. (see Key Consideration 2)
    2. To ensure additional pedestrian interest along Hoyt Place, add an entry feature around
       the north door (“Left Elevation”) of unit 201. Final approval of the porch design would be
       delegated to staff. (see Key Consideration 3)
ATTACHMENTS:
    A. Vicinity Map                                    E. Planned Development Standards
    B. Submitted Materials                             F. Public Process & Comments
    C. Property & Vicinity Photos                      G. Department Review Comments
    D. Zoning Standards Review

PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                     April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development           1
                                               10
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This proposal is to construct five new single-
family houses on five new lots on roughly 0.33
acres (14374.8 square feet) at approximately 843     Quick Facts
& 845 West Hoyt Place (see map below). The new
houses would share a private alley served by Hoyt    Number of Units: 5 new units
Place, a private street. The project’s orientation   Building Type: Detached (stand-alone)
and location on a private street necessitate
Planned Development approval from the                single-family dwellings
Planning Commission. As part of this request,        Parking: 10 tandem spaces (2 per lot)
the applicant has requested modifications to a
                                                     and up to 10 additional garage spaces
handful of applicable zoning regulations,
including lots without street frontage, minimum      Max Building Height: 28 feet
lot size, minimum lot width, rear yard setbacks,
and parking location. A complete list of all         Review Process & Standards: Planned
requested modifications can be found in the          Development review, SR-3 zoning
Approval Process and Commission Authority            Standards, general zoning standards
Section of this report. The proposed dwellings
are designed with a flexible configuration that
can include up to four bedrooms.




Current Conditions & Neighborhood Context
Project Site
The subject site consists of two properties that have been vacant since at least 2007. Both abut
Hoyt Place, a private street recently improved with new utilities, asphalt, curbs, and gutters,
financed by the applicant. Abutting properties to the west and to the south contain single-family
dwellings. Vegetation on much of the site appears to be torn up by traffic from machinery used to
PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                     April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development         2
                                                11
construct the improvements along Hoyt Place. The remainder is primarily covered with brush,
weeds, and grass. There are a few trees along the south end of the site where it meets adjacent
properties.
Neighborhood Character
Across the street, the Hoyt Place Phase I development is currently under construction by a
different developer and property owner. Immediately east is the site of the Nielsen Estates
Development, which the Planning Commission approved as a Planned Development in late 2022.
The perimeter of the block where the subject site is located consists of existing single-family
houses. The North Temple Boulevard Master Plan has identified the block as a “Stable Area,”
meaning that little changes are expected or desired for future land use or intensity (see Key
Consideration 1 for further discussion on this topic). Single-family dwellings line both sides of
800 West, 900 West, and 300 North. The south side of 200 North has seen significant changes
with the Solis at Jackson Station development next to the Rancho Market grocery store.




Hoyt Place (the street) from 900 West
Streets and Transit
Hoyt Place is a private street with access to 900 West,
a city-owned arterial street. On 900 West, there are
stops for the recently created UTA bus route 1, a
Frequent Transit Network (FTN) route arriving every
15 minutes. Southbound/eastbound buses can take
passengers to the nearby TRAX Green Line,
Downtown, ending at the University of Utah Medical
Center.    Northbound/westbound          buses    carry
passengers through the Rose Park neighborhood to the
south.
Amenities and Schools
Jackson Park, located at the intersection of 500 North
and 800 West, is the nearest public open space (just
over a half-mile away). Amenities at the park include a
playground, picnic areas, and a field. The Northwest      Northbound bus stop for Route 1 at 900 W
PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                        April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development         3
                                               12
Community, Recreation, and Senior Centers campus (along the Jordan River Trail) is
approximately ¾ of a mile from the site. The Northwest Center's amenities include an indoor
pool, childcare, reservable space, and programmed activities for seniors and children. The subject
site is currently located within the boundaries of Mary W. Jackson Elementary School (located
one block east of the site). However, that school is slated to close before next school year.
Elementary school boundaries for the site may shift to either Backman or Rose Park Elementary.
Bryant Middle and West High Schools also serve the site.




Jackson Park
Utilities
Representatives from the Public Utilities Department did not
express any concerns about the proposal’s impact on the
capacity of existing water, sewer, and storm sewer systems. They
noted that calculations would need to be provided for building
permit review and that the cost of any necessary upgrades to
public facilities would need to be covered by the applicants.
Project Details
Lot Layout
The Hoyt Place Phase II development proposal would consist of
five new single-family dwellings on five new lots. Due to the
subject site's deep and narrow shape (roughly 61.5 feet wide and
165 feet deep), development entirely oriented toward Hoyt Place
would require inefficient narrow and deep lots. To better use the
site, the proposal orients units perpendicularly to Hoyt Place
with a shared private alley for vehicle access along the site's east
side. The development also includes a pedestrian pathway along
the west edge of the site that provides access to the units’ front
doors.
House Type
The applicant has provided elevation drawings for the proposed
single-family dwellings (which can be found in Attachment B with
the applicant’s submitted materials). While simple in exterior
design, the modular nature of the structures allows for
customizable internal configurations. The applicant has indicated      Proposed unit configuration
that those who would purchase a unit have the option of up to four
PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                            April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development            4
                                                  13
bedrooms or three bedrooms
with a garage. The proposed
structures’ footprints sit well
within the maximum building
coverage (60%) of the proposed
lots.

Street Access and Parking
As mentioned earlier, a 21-foot-
wide shared private alley would
provide access to Hoyt Place for
all five units. Two tandem
parking spaces would be
provided to the south of each
unit. These parking stalls would
straddle the proposed lot lines,
so access easements for the
parking pads would need to be
established and referenced on
the associated final plat (a
condition       of     approval
discussed further under Key
Consideration 2). If potential
tenants opt for a three-
bedroom unit, then two                    Rendering of a design option for the proposed units
additional spaces within a
garage would also be available
for that house.

APPROVAL PROCESS AND COMMISSION AUTHORITY
Review Process: Planned Development
The applicant has requested Planned Development approval from the Planning Commission for
modifications of the following requirements:
1. Lot Frontage on Public Streets: 21A.36.010.C, which requires all lots to have frontage on (or
   touch) a public street.
2. Minimum Lot Area: 21A.24.100.C, which requires 2,000 square feet per single-family lot.
3. Minimum Lot Width: 21A.24.100.C, which requires 30 feet for an interior-lot single-family
   dwelling.
4. Rear Yard Setbacks: 21A.24.100.E.4, which requires 20% of a lot’s depth (not less than 15 feet
   and no more than 30 feet).
5. Parking Located on Same Lot: 21A.44.060.A.1, which requires all necessary parking spaces to
   be located on the same lot as the building in which they serve.
The proposed project will need to meet the Planned Development standards found in section
21A.55.050 of the zoning ordinance (An analysis of these standards can be found in Attachment
E) in addition to all other relevant zoning requirements that would not be modified by approval
of this request.




PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                                April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development                   5
                                                          14
KEY CONSIDERATIONS
Planning Staff identified the following Key Considerations through analysis of the proposal and
from public comment:
1. Master Plan Compatibility
2. Required Parking
3. Engagement with Hoyt Place
4. Requested Modifications & Planned Development Objectives
Consideration 1 – Master Plan Compatibility
The proposed development is generally consistent with the adopted policies within the following plans:
 • Housing SLC (Citywide Housing Plan, 2023)
 • Thriving in Place – Salt Lake City’s Anit-Displacement Strategy (2023)
 • Plan Salt Lake (2015)
 • North Temple Boulevard Plan (2010)
 • Northwest Community Master Plan (1992)
Housing SLC (2023)
Goal 1: Make progress toward closing the housing gap of 5,500 units of deeply affordable housing and
increase the supply of housing at all levels of affordability. (emphasis added)
     • Entitle 10,000 new housing units throughout the city. (emphasis added)
Discussion:
The Planned Development process is a zoning tool that provides flexibility for projects that would
typically not be permitted through strict application of the zoning code. The proposed development is
utilizing this process to allow more efficient use of the subject property in a way that would otherwise
be prohibited. The requested modifications to the zoning regulations will allow for more dwelling units
on otherwise underutilized parcels, assisting with the need for additional housing within the city.
Thriving in Place – Salt Lake City’s Anti-Displacement Strategy (2023)
Guiding Principle 3 – Increase Housing Everywhere: Create more housing overall, and more
affordable housing specifically, while minimizing displacement and countering historic patterns of
segregation.
Goal 3: Produce more housing, especially affordable housing.
    • Strategy 3C – Facilitate creation of more diverse housing choices.
Discussion:
As already discussed, the applicant has requested flexibility through the Planned Development process
to facilitate efficient development of the property. The subject site has a relatively narrow frontage
along Hoyt Place. Additionally, strict application of zoning requirements would only allow two units on
the site. While the proposed development would be market-rate housing, it is still increasing supply.
Planned Development approval would enable the applicant to provide family-sized units (defined as
three or more bedrooms in the document) at this location.
Plan Salt Lake (2015) Applicable initiatives from the plan are below:
2. Growth:
    • Locate new development in areas with existing infrastructure and amenities, such as transit
        and transportation corridors.
    • Promote infill and redevelopment of underutilized land.
    • Accommodate and promote an increase in the City’s population.
    • Provide access to opportunities for a healthy lifestyle (including parks, trails, recreation, and
        healthy food).
Discussion:
The proposed development takes advantage of an underutilized property and would rely on existing
infrastructure (put in place by the applicant) without requiring significant investment from the City.
The project is located within a five-minute walk from UTA’s Route 1 bus and the TRAX Green Line.
PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                            April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development            6
                                                   15
Additionally, a handful of recreational amenities are nearby, including Jackson Park and the Northwest
Recreation and Senior Center Campus.
3. Housing:
     • Increase the number of medium-density housing types and options.
     • Direct new growth toward areas with
         existing infrastructure and services
         that have the potential to be people-
         oriented.
     • Enable moderate density increases
         within existing neighborhoods where
         appropriate.
Discussion:
Due to the site's deep and narrow shape,
Planned Development approval is necessary to
facilitate the efficient development of
moderate-density housing at this location. The
strict application of the zoning regulations
limits development of the site to only two units.
The project takes advantage of existing
infrastructure to provide a moderate increase
in density in the neighborhood.
North Temple Boulevard Plan (2010)
The subject property is within the 800 West
Station Area of the North Temple Boulevard
Plan and includes two neighborhoods:                Location of the project site’s block in relation to the 800
Jackson and Euclid. These neighborhoods             West TRAX Station.
are described as having block patterns and




 Blocks with opportunities for infill development as identified by the North Temple Boulevard Plan
PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                                  April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development              7
                                                     16
street networks that support walking and bicycling but need more residential density to support
the intensity of commercial uses desired by the community.
Policy 4 for the 800 West Station, Residential Density, recommends increasing residential density
around the 800 West Station area, including appropriate residential development in undeveloped
mid-block parcels. The housing options proposed by the project are identified in the plan as
examples of infill within Stable areas in the plan area. In addition, the interior blocks of the
Jackson neighborhood (including the project site’s block) are specifically identified as areas with
opportunities for infill development (see map below from Page 52 of the North Temple Boulevard
Master Plan).
Northwest Community Master Plan (1992)
The Northwest Community Master Plan was adopted in 1980 and updated in 1992. The update
focused mainly on specific areas of concern in the community, such as the airport and the state
office complex along North Temple Street. As these documents have not been recently adopted or
updated, changes in the community and in city policies since that time should be taken into
consideration.
The plan recommends maintaining single-family neighborhoods and raises concerns about new
development interfering with neighborhood character. Significant growth has occurred across the city
since 1992, including the Jackson Neighborhood where the subject site is located. When discussing
residential land uses, the master plan states that the city should “encourage families to establish in the
Northwest Community to stabilize the community population.” As the community no longer has large
tracts of developable property, infill development is generally the only tool available to accomplish that
goal. The proposed development, while denser than much of the surrounding neighborhood, follows
the direction of the Northwest Community Master Plan and maintains the single-family character of
its neighborhood.

Consideration 2 – Required Parking
The proposal’s required parking spaces would be provided as tandem spaces to the south of each
unit. Unfortunately, the proposed spaces also straddle the lot lines for each unit. Regulations for
Parking Location and Design within The Salt Lake City Zoning Ordinance states that all required
parking spaces “shall be located on the same lots as the building or use served” (see section
21A.44.060.A.1). Off-site parking is only allowed if it is listed as a permitted or conditional use in
a given district, which is not the case in SR-3. Therefore, the applicant has requested relief from
the above-listed standard limiting required parking to its associated lot.
To ensure that all required parking spaces are clearly assigned to their associated single-family
dwelling, Planning staff recommends establishing access easements for every parking space that
crosses property lines and referencing such easements on the associated final plat.
Consideration 3 – Engagement with Hoyt Place
According to the submitted plans, each of the five units are proposed to be oriented to the west,
towards the shared pedestrian pathway. Unit 201 is located adjacent to Hoyt Place and does not
include a porch element to frame the door facing the street. To help the development better meet
Planned Development Standards C.2 and C.4, which asks “Whether building facades offer ground
floor transparency, access, and architectural detailing to facilitate pedestrian interest and
interaction,” Planning staff recommends that additional porch details be installed around the
entry found on unit 201’s “Left Elevation” (as provided in Attachment B) and that the Planning
Commission delegate final approval of the design to staff. Elements may include (but are not
limited to) the following:
 • A covered, raised porch structure with or without railings spanning a section of the front
     building façade.
 • A structure with a roof protruding over the building entry supported by columns over a
     landing or walkway.

PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                             April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development             8
                                                    17
 •   A cover suspended above the building entry over a landing or walkway where the wall(s)
     around the entry project out or recess in by at least one foot from the building façade.
 •   A doorway that is slightly recessed and architecturally emphasized with a doorframe of a
     different material than the front façade.
Consideration 4 – Requested Modifications & Planned Development Objectives
The applicant is requesting several modifications to the zoning regulations as part of their
development. Those are listed in the Approval Process and Commission Authority section earlier
in this report. Generally, all of the modifications are related to meeting two Planned Development
objectives met by this proposal. Specifically, these include:
• Housing: “Providing types of housing that help achieve the City’s housing goals, including
    housing types not commonly found in the neighborhood but of a scale that is typical to the
    neighborhood.”
• Master Plan Implementation: “A project that helps implement portions of an adopted Master
    Plan in instances where the Master Plan provides specific guidance on the character of the
    immediate vicinity of the proposal.”
Housing
The dwelling units proposed with this request are all detached single-family. However, the houses
on the site are closer together than other single-family dwellings along the outer perimeter of the
block, and the project’s location within the block’s interior assists in mitigating possible negative
impacts from the development. The characteristics of the proposal make it a fitting and
compatible moderate-density development, achieving adopted goals that encourage missing
middle (medium scale) development.
Master Plan Implementation
As discussed under Key Consideration 1, the proposed development fulfills policies within the
North Temple Boulevard Master Plan. Specifically, the proposal follows strategy 4-D of the plan
by providing “appropriate residential development on undeveloped mid-block parcels” (pg. 64).
In addition, the plan specifically calls out the block where the project site is located as an
opportunity for infill development (noted in the map under Key Consideration 1).
STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Overall, the proposed Hoyt Place Phase II development generally meets the intent of the SR-3
zoning district (as discussed in Attachment D), other applicable zoning requirements, and the
standards required for Planned Development approval (as discussed in Attachment E). The
applicant has made efforts to provide new housing on an underutilized lot in a way that fulfills
city plans and policies and benefits the community.
NEXT STEPS:
Planned Development Approval
If the Planning Commission approves this project, they would approve the development plan for
this site. The development plan constitutes the site design in relation to building placement and
design, landscaping, mobility and circulation elements, and any aspects that were approved as
zoning modifications through this process. Plans for a building permit must be consistent with
the approved development plan. They will need to comply with the conditions of approval,
including any of the conditions required by City departments and the Planning Commission.
The applicant would then be able to begin the subdivision process. A Preliminary Plat would need
to be approved before any building permits could be issued. Final certificates of occupancy for the
buildings will only be issued once all conditions of approval are met and a Final Plat has been
recorded.



PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                         April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development          9
                                                 18
Planned Development Tabled/Continued
If the Planning Commission tables the Planned Development application, the applicant will have
the opportunity to make changes to the design and/or further articulate details in order to return
to the Planning Commission for further review and a decision on the application.
Planned Development Denial
If the Planning Commission denies the Planned Development application, the applicant could
submit a new proposal that meets all of the standards required by the Zoning Ordinance. The
proposal will be subject to any relevant zoning standard or planning processes.




PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                      April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development        10
                                                19
ATTACHMENT A: Vicinity Map




PLNPCM2023-00900                               April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development   11
                                          20
PLNPCM2023-00900                               April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development   12
                                          21
ATTACHMENT B: Submitted Materials




                           This page is intentionally left blank.




PLNPCM2023-00900                                                    April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development      13
                                             22
                         HOYT PLACE PHASE 2

Introduction
Hoyt Place Phase 2 consists of two vacant parcels.

Phase 1 at Hoyt Place has already been approved and obtained its Final
Plat. It consists of 10 residential building lots (4 single family detached
and 6 single family attached), a 32’ private street, and a 20’ alley.

Background

Hoyt Place Phase 2 includes parcels 851 and 853 West Hoyt Place and is
a continuation of the infill development. The private street provides
access to approximately 30 individual parcels; four of which contain
occupied single-family dwellings. The remaining parcels are vacant or
the vacant portions of long narrow lots.

The improvements for Phases 1 and 2 are installed and or “stubbed” to
the subject properties. The private street (Hoyt Place) is currently
improved with new sewer, water, curb, and gutter, gas, and asphalt.
Utility access to all vacant parcels on Hoyt Place has been stubbed and
or planned for.

Several of the properties at Hoyt Place were rezoned to SR-3 Special
Development Pattern Residential in 2016 to accommodate the type of
development being proposed.

Phase 2 parcels total approximately .33 acres. These parcels will be
subdivided into 5 single-family lots. The following is a summary of what
is proposed:

   1. Lot sizes. The lots range from 1,784 square feet to 2,461 square
      feet for an average of 2,031 square feet.
   2. Homes. The homes are single-family detached with optional flex
      space. These single-family homes offer up to four bedrooms,
      three and a half bathrooms.
   3. Parking. The parking requirement for the SR3 zone is one (1)
      parking stall per dwelling. However, those choosing a garage will
      have two (2) enclosed parking stalls. Parking for units that are


                                     14
                                     23
      built with flex space is located in the side yard of each unit with
      potential tandem parking. Through the Planned Development, the
      flex space parking is being requested as a modification in order to
      allow for on street parking credit. This request is due to the
      ordinance not providing credit for on street parking in single-
      family districts. However, the zoning administrator has made the
      determination that the parking ordinance does not define those
      districts clearly, and that the SR-3 is actually defined as a medium
      density residential district. The requested modification of this
      provision is to ensure this clarity and allow for parking flexibility
      with this type of housing.

As previously mentioned, the properties at Hoyt Place have been
rezoned from R1-5,000 and R1-7,000 to SR-3.

The purpose of the rezone was to allow for more flexibility in housing
options through development of the inner block, and to implement the
guidance found in the 800 West Station Area Plan by changing the
zoning to a district that was created for development or interior
residential blocks.

The decision to grant the rezone was made by the City Council with the
acknowledgement and expectation that the Planning Commission would
review any proposal for development and meet the requirements and
standards for Planned Developments as well as the purposes of SR-3
districts.

The proposed development is consistent with the purpose statement of
the SR-3 district that calls for a medium-density zoning district that
provides “a variety of housing types, in scale with the character of
development located within the interior portions of city blocks”. This
proposal contains single-family homes with multiple floor plan options
that can and will meet the needs of the diverse population.

The Planned Development objectives and standards are being met by
promoting greater efficiency in use of the land, utility services, and
transportation systems. The proposed incremental increase in density
utilizes the land to a more efficient degree than would otherwise be
found in the area. In addition, the location of the proposed development


                                    15
                                    24
is approximately 1,600 feet legal walking distance from the
Jackson/Euclid TRAX station and provides access to bicycle lanes on
900 West that connect to 300 North bike lanes that lead to downtown.

The rezoning and current development proposal on Hoyt Place
directly follows the direction set in the North Temple Boulevard/800
West Station Plan. The housing options proposed by the project are
identified as examples in the plan for infill of stable areas in the plan
area.

In addition, the guidance of the 800 West Station Area Plan calls for infill
development at the proposed location specifically. That plan includes
language that calls for increases in density at an increment that is meant
to be compatible with the surrounding neighborhood. In addition, these
housing options are also consistent with the goals found in the citywide
plan: Plan Salt Lake, with the second initiative of the Plan Salt Lake
housing section being to “Increase the number of medium density
housing types and options.”

Not only does the proposed development meet the guidance of these
plans closely, it is also important to note that the project is one block
North of the Jackson Euclid TRAX station, bicycle lanes on 900 West that
connect to downtown, and multiple shopping amenities, schools,
recreation opportunities within one half mile.

The proposed configuration is the most logical way to develop the
subject properties. These properties are narrow and deep and if they
were to be subdivided North and South, the result would be single-
family lots roughly 160’ deep. This fact provides adequate justification
for the structures to be oriented as proposed.

The proposed modifications allow the development to access the
expanse of property at the mid-block of Hoyt Place and utilize this asset
for more housing choices in the community. Development of the interior
portions of the block would not be possible without the new street and
utility infrastructure. The applicant has created this housing
opportunity at significant cost. The ordinance that requires lots to front
a public street render the subject properties undevelopable without
modifications being granted through the Planned Development process.


                                     16
                                     25
Planned Development Requirements

21A.55.010: Each objective includes strategies that are intended to be
used to determine if an objective has been accomplished through a
specific proposal:
A. Open Space and Natural Lands: Preserving, protecting or creating
open space and natural lands: The single family homes are oriented to
create, conserve, and protect open space and each home faces common
green space and a connecting paseo.

1. Inclusion of community gathering places or public recreational
opportunities, such as new trails or trails that connect to existing or
planned trail systems, playgrounds or other similar types of facilities. A
paseo connects all of Hoyt Place homes, providing a safe environment
for walking and biking in the immediate neighborhood. In addition, the
paseo connects to the existing sidewalks and streets outside of Hoyt
Place. These sidewalks lead to a grocery store, a bank, schools, the State
Fairground, a recreation center, public transportation, and more.

2. Preservation of critical lands, watershed areas, riparian corridors
and/or the urban forest. N/A

3. Development of connected greenways and/or wildlife corridors. The
greenways (common space) the homes face are connected via safe and
inviting walking and bike trails to neighbors, sidewalks, a future
community garden, a neighborhood grocer, schools, public
transportation, and more.

4. Daylighting of creeks/water bodies. N/A

5. Inclusion of local food production areas, such as community gardens.
A community garden is designed in a future phase and grow boxes are
offered throughout all phases.

6. Clustering of development to preserve open spaces. Clustering allows
the preservation of open spaces, green spaces, a walkable development,
great connectivity, and more.

B. Historic Preservation:


                                    17
                                    26
1. Preservation, restoration, or adaptive reuse of buildings or structures
that contribute to the character of the city either architecturally and/or
historically, and that contribute to the general welfare of the residents
of the city. N/A

2. Preservation of, or enhancement to, historically significant landscapes
that contribute to the character of the city and contribute to the general
welfare of the city’s residents. Native plants and grasses are used;
leading to water-wise landscaping, water conservation, low
maintenance, and more.

C. Housing: Providing affordable housing or types of housing that helps
achieve the city’s housing goals and policies:

1. At least 20% of the housing must be for those with incomes that are at
or below 80% of the area median income. While our focus is providing
high quality, price sensitive, work-force housing, the additional flex
space can and will provide affordable housing options, within a safe
neighborhood, near public transportation, downtown, a grocery store,
schools, etc.

2. The proposal includes housing types that are not commonly found in
the existing neighborhood but are of a scale that is typical to the
neighborhood. We comply with the 28’ height restriction and our
homes are consistent with the size and scope of the neighborhood.
However, we have included flex spaces, adding more flexibility and
affordability to the neighborhood.

D. Mobility: Enhances accessibility and mobility:

1. Creating new interior block walkway connections that connect
through a block or improve connectivity to transit or the bicycle
network. Our connected neighborhood sidewalks provide easy, safe,
and convenient access to grocery stores, banking, public transportation,
and more.




                                    18
                                    27
2. Improvements that encourage transportation options other than just
the automobile. Our connected sidewalks provide great access to public
transportation, biking, walking, etc.

E. Sustainability: Creation of a project that achieves exceptional
performance with regards to resource consumption and impact on
natural systems:

1. Energy Use and Generation: Design of the building, its systems,
and/or site that allow for a significant reduction in energy usage as
compared with other buildings of similar type and/or the generation of
energy from an on-site renewable resource. Our private streets require
less asphalt while providing more than the required parking. Most of
our homes are oriented east to west, with simple pitched roofs that
easily accommodate solar panels. Each home is wired for solar, and
every homeowner can choose to install solar panels at the time of
construction or in the future.

2. Reuse of Priority Site: Locate on a brownfield where soil or
groundwater contamination has been identified, and where the local,
state, or national authority (whichever has jurisdiction) requires its
remediation. Perform remediation to the satisfaction of that authority.
N/A

F. Master Plan Implementation: A project that helps implement portions
of an adopted master plan in instances where the master plan provides
specific guidance on the character of the immediate vicinity of the
proposal:

A project that is consistent with the guidance of the master plan related
to building scale, building orientation, site layout, or other similar
character defining features

Purpose Statement: The purpose of the SR-3 special development
pattern residential district is to provide lot, bulk and use regulations,
including a variety of housing types, in scale with the character of
development located within the interior portions of city blocks. Uses are
intended to be compatible with the existing scale, density and intensity
of the neighborhood. The standards for the district are intended to

                                    19
                                    28
provide for safe and comfortable places to live and play, promote
sustainable and compatible development patterns and to preserve the
existing character of the neighborhood. This is a medium density zoning
district. Off site parking facilities in this district to supply required
parking for new development may be approved as part of the
conditional use process. As previously mentioned, the properties at
Hoyt Place, underwent rezoning approval and were rezoned from R1-
5,000 and R1-7,000 to SR-3.

The purpose of the rezone was to allow for more flexibility in housing
options through development of the inner block, and to implement the
guidance found in the 800 West Station Area Plan by changing the
zoning to a district that was created for development or interior
residential blocks. Phase 2 at Hoyt Place continues to meet the
intended purpose of the re-zone by providing desperately needed
housing options.




                                   20
                                   29
Barlow, Aaron

From:               dave robinson <dave.ssconsulting@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, November 6, 2023 3:41 PM
To:                 Barlow, Aaron; Wendy Racine
Subject:            (EXTERNAL) Additional answers to Planned Development....



   Caution: This is an external email. Please be cautious when clicking links or opening attachments.

Aaron, please see Wendy's responses to the questions below.


21A.55.050: Standards for Planned Developments:

A. Open Space And Natural Lands: Preserving, protecting, or creating open space and natural
lands:
1. Inclusion of community gathering places or public recreational opportunities, such as new
trails or trails that connect to existing or planned trail systems, playgrounds or other similar
types of facilities. Each home faces a common area and paseo that ensures a sense of community and safety.
2. Preservation of critical lands, watershed areas, riparian corridors and/or the urban forest. N/A
3. Development of connected greenways and/or wildlife corridors. This multi‐phased development is designed with
interconnected walkways and greenways
4. Daylighting of creeks/water bodies. N/A
5. Inclusion of local food production areas, such as community gardens. Yes, a community garden is designed in a future
phase
6. Clustering of development to preserve open spaces. Yes, long, narrow, difficult‐to‐develop parcels have been
combined and utilized so that each home faces community open space.
B. Historic Preservation:
1. Preservation, restoration, or adaptive reuse of buildings or structures that contribute to the
character of the City either architecturally and/or historically, and that contribute to the
general welfare of the residents of the City. N/A. The subject property is vacant land that has never been built on.
2. Preservation of, or enhancement to, historically significant landscapes that contribute to the
character of the City and contribute to the general welfare of the City&#39;s residents. N/A
C. Housing: Providing affordable housing or types of housing that helps achieve the City&#39;s housing
goals and policies:
1. At least twenty percent (20%) of the housing must be for those with incomes that are at or
below eighty percent (80%) of the area median income. This might be an impossible threshold to meet. I would need
more data and details from the City
2. The proposal includes housing types that are not commonly found in the existing
neighborhood but are of a scale that is typical to the neighborhood. Each home is a single family, which is desperately
needed in Salt Lake City. Much of the surrounding neighborhood is single‐family, but much of what is currently approved
and built in Salt Lake City is attached townhomes and apartments. The proposal provides single‐family, for‐sale homes to
Salt Lake residents or hope‐to‐be residents.
D. Mobility: Enhances accessibility and mobility:
1. Creating new interior block walkway connections that connect through a block or improve
connectivity to transit or the bicycle network. Yes, this phase builds another section of the interior block walkway
connections for walking and biking
2. Improvements that encourage transportation options other than just the automobile. Phase 2 links walkways to mass
transit, grocery stores, banks, the Jordan River Parkway, the State Fairgrounds, schools, and more.

                                                           21
                                                           1
                                                           30
E. Sustainability: Creation of a project that achieves exceptional performance with regards to
resource consumption and impact on natural systems:
1. Energy Use And Generation: Design of the building, its systems, and/or site that allow for a
significant reduction in energy usage as compared with other buildings of similar type and/or
the generation of energy from an on‐site renewable resource. Each home runs east to west, providing excellent
coverage and opportunity for solar panels.
2. Reuse Of Priority Site: Locate on a brownfield where soil or groundwater contamination has
been identified, and where the local, State, or national authority (whichever has jurisdiction)
requires its remediation. Perform remediation to the satisfaction of that authority. This site has never been developed
and is not a brownfield
F. Master Plan Implementation: A project that helps implement portions of an adopted Master Plan
in instances where the Master Plan provides specific guidance on the character of the immediate
vicinity of the proposal:
1. A project that is consistent with the guidance of the Master Plan related to building scale,
building orientation, site layout, or other similar character‐defining features. (Ord. 8‐18,
2018) Yes, this site was previously identified by the City Council/Planning Commission as in inner‐block development for
the SR3 zone
2. Whether the building orientation and building materials in the proposed planned development
are compatible with the neighborhood where the planned development will be located and/or the
policies stated in an applicable Master Plan related to building and site design;
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
3. Whether building setbacks along the perimeter of the development:
a. Maintain the visual character of the neighborhood or the character described in the
applicable Master Plan. Yes, we meet setback requirements for the SR3 zone
b. Provide sufficient space for private amenities. Yes, the common space is very natural for walking, bicycles, visiting
neighbors, etc. We do not provide a swimming pool or heavy, costly amenities due to the nearby County fitness center
(Northwest), the Jordan River Parkway, and more.
c. Provide sufficient open space buffering between the proposed development and
neighboring properties to minimize impacts related to privacy and noise. Yes, we meet setback requirements for the SR3
zone
d. Provide adequate sight lines to streets, driveways and sidewalks. Yes, we comply with AASHTO site requirements and
city ordinances.
e. Provide sufficient space for maintenance. Yes, each home has adequate space for yard and home maintenance tools.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
4. Whether building facades offer ground floor transparency, access, and architectural detailing to
facilitate pedestrian interest and interaction; Yes, each home is designed with interest, safety, and connectivity. Each
home has a front porch, substantial glass, and is well‐lit. This provides built‐in interest and interaction.
5. Whether the lighting is designed for safety and visual interest while minimizing impacts on
surrounding property; Yes, both the individual home and the paseo are well‐lit for safety and interest.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
6. Whether dumpsters, loading docks and/or service areas are appropriately screened; Each home will have its trash and
recycle cans stored in the garages or tucked away between the homes.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
7. Whether parking areas are appropriately buffered from adjacent uses. There will be on‐street guest parking on the 32'
wide street (Hoyt Place) while each home has on‐site, alley fed, parking.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
D. Landscaping: The proposed planned development preserves, maintains or provides native

                                                          22
                                                           2
                                                           31
landscaping where appropriate. In determining the landscaping for the proposed planned
development, the Planning Commission should consider:
1. Whether mature native trees located along the periphery of the property and along the street are
preserved and maintained;
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
2. Whether existing landscaping that provides additional buffering to the abutting properties is
maintained and preserved; There are no trees on the subject property other than a few "junk", non‐native bushes.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
3. Whether proposed landscaping is designed to lessen potential impacts created by the proposed
planned development; Native trees and native, water‐wise landscaping will be installed
Discussion:
Fill out this section..
4. Whether proposed landscaping is appropriate for the scale of the development. Yes. To be shown on landscape detail
E. Mobility: The proposed planned development supports Citywide transportation goals and
promotes safe and efficient circulation within the site and surrounding neighborhood. In
determining mobility, the Planning Commission should consider:
1. Whether drive access to local streets will negatively impact the safety, purpose and character of
the street; Hoyt Place is a quiet, dead‐end street. Traffic will enter and exit on 900 West, which easily accommodates
this amount of added traffic
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
2. Whether the site design considers safe circulation for a range of transportation options
including:
a. Safe and accommodating pedestrian environment and pedestrian oriented design; Yes, via connected sidewalks and
paseos.
b. Bicycle facilities and connections where appropriate, and orientation to transit where
available; and. Yes, each home has adequate bike storage and the subject site has excelled bicycle and walking linkages
to mass transit, retail, regional trails, etc.
c. Minimizing conflicts between different transportation modes; Yes, public safety is prominently featured in the design.
Cars are separated from pedestrians and bicycles.
Discussion:
Fill out this section..
3. Whether the site design of the proposed development promotes or enables access to adjacent
uses and amenities; Yes, walkways and travelways provide direct and easy access to grocery, schools, banks, rec center,
state fairground, regional trails, and more.
Discussion:
Fill out this section..
4. Whether the proposed design provides adequate emergency vehicle access; Yes, we meet the standards for the IFC
(International Fire Code) and other applicable city ordinances.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
5. Whether loading access and service areas are adequate for the site and minimize impacts to the
surrounding area and public rights‐of‐way. Yes, we meet the private street dimensions, the IFC, and AASHTO
Discussion:
Fill out this section..

F. Existing Site Features: The proposed planned development preserves natural and built
features that significantly contribute to the character of the neighborhood and/or
environment. N/A. It is a vacant parcel
Discussion:

                                                           23
                                                            3
                                                           32
Fill out this section..
G. Utilities: Existing and/or planned utilities will adequately serve the development and not
have a detrimental effect on the surrounding area. New utilities and road have been installed next to the subject parcel
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
Please provide a Disclosure of Private Infrastructure Costs according to
the requirements below:
21A.55.110: DISCLOSURE OF PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS FOR
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
Planned developments, approved under this title after January 1, 1997, shall include provisions for disclosure
of future private infrastructure maintenance and placement costs to unit owners.
A. Infrastructure Maintenance Estimates: Using generally accepted accounting principles, the developer of
any planned development shall calculate an initial estimate of the costs for maintenance and capital
improvements of all infrastructure for the planned development including roads, sidewalks, curbs, gutters,
water and sewer pipes and related facilities, drainage systems, landscaped or paved common areas and
other similar facilities (&quot;infrastructure&quot;), for a period of sixty (60) years following the recording of the
subdivision plat or the estimated date of first unit occupancy of the planned development, whichever is
later. In process
B. Initial Estimate Disclosure: The following measures shall be incorporated in planned developments to
assure that owners and future owners have received adequate disclosure of potential infrastructure
maintenance and replacement costs:
1. the cost estimate shall be recorded with and referenced on the recorded plat for any planned
development. The initial disclosure estimate shall cover all private infrastructure items and shall be
prepared for six (6) increments of ten (10) years each. In process
2. The recorded plat shall also contain a statement entitled &quot;notice to purchasers&quot; disclosing that the
infrastructure is privately owned and that the maintenance, repair, replacement and operation of the
infrastructure is the responsibility of the property owners and will not be assumed by the City. In process
3. The cost estimate shall be specifically and separately disclosed to the purchaser of any property in the
planned development, upon initial purchase and also upon all future purchases for the duration of the
sixty (60) year period. In process
C. Yearly Maintenance Statements: The entity responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
infrastructure shall, at least once each calendar year, notify all property owners in the planned
development of the estimated yearly expenditures for maintenance, repair, operation or replacement of
infrastructure, and at least once each calendar year shall notify all property owners of the actual
expenditures incurred, and shall specify the reason(s) for any variance between the estimated
expenditures and the actual expenditures. In process
D. Maintenance Responsibilities: The property owners in a planned development shall be collectively and
individually responsible, on a pro rata basis, for operating, maintaining, repairing and replacing
infrastructure to the extent necessary to ensure that access to the planned development is available to the
City for emergency and other services and to ensure that the condition of the private infrastructure allows
for the City&#39;s continued and uninterrupted operation of public facilities to which the private infrastructure
may be connected or to which it may be adjacent. In process




                                                           24
                                                            4
                                                           33
Barlow, Aaron

From:               dave robinson <dave.ssconsulting@gmail.com>
Sent:               Monday, November 6, 2023 3:41 PM
To:                 Barlow, Aaron; Wendy Racine
Subject:            (EXTERNAL) Additional answers to Planned Development....



   Caution: This is an external email. Please be cautious when clicking links or opening attachments.

Aaron, please see Wendy's responses to the questions below.


21A.55.050: Standards for Planned Developments:

A. Open Space And Natural Lands: Preserving, protecting, or creating open space and natural
lands:
1. Inclusion of community gathering places or public recreational opportunities, such as new
trails or trails that connect to existing or planned trail systems, playgrounds or other similar
types of facilities. Each home faces a common area and paseo that ensures a sense of community and safety.
2. Preservation of critical lands, watershed areas, riparian corridors and/or the urban forest. N/A
3. Development of connected greenways and/or wildlife corridors. This multi‐phased development is designed with
interconnected walkways and greenways
4. Daylighting of creeks/water bodies. N/A
5. Inclusion of local food production areas, such as community gardens. Yes, a community garden is designed in a future
phase
6. Clustering of development to preserve open spaces. Yes, long, narrow, difficult‐to‐develop parcels have been
combined and utilized so that each home faces community open space.
B. Historic Preservation:
1. Preservation, restoration, or adaptive reuse of buildings or structures that contribute to the
character of the City either architecturally and/or historically, and that contribute to the
general welfare of the residents of the City. N/A. The subject property is vacant land that has never been built on.
2. Preservation of, or enhancement to, historically significant landscapes that contribute to the
character of the City and contribute to the general welfare of the City&#39;s residents. N/A
C. Housing: Providing affordable housing or types of housing that helps achieve the City&#39;s housing
goals and policies:
1. At least twenty percent (20%) of the housing must be for those with incomes that are at or
below eighty percent (80%) of the area median income. This might be an impossible threshold to meet. I would need
more data and details from the City
2. The proposal includes housing types that are not commonly found in the existing
neighborhood but are of a scale that is typical to the neighborhood. Each home is a single family, which is desperately
needed in Salt Lake City. Much of the surrounding neighborhood is single‐family, but much of what is currently approved
and built in Salt Lake City is attached townhomes and apartments. The proposal provides single‐family, for‐sale homes to
Salt Lake residents or hope‐to‐be residents.
D. Mobility: Enhances accessibility and mobility:
1. Creating new interior block walkway connections that connect through a block or improve
connectivity to transit or the bicycle network. Yes, this phase builds another section of the interior block walkway
connections for walking and biking
2. Improvements that encourage transportation options other than just the automobile. Phase 2 links walkways to mass
transit, grocery stores, banks, the Jordan River Parkway, the State Fairgrounds, schools, and more.

                                                           25
                                                            1
                                                           34
E. Sustainability: Creation of a project that achieves exceptional performance with regards to
resource consumption and impact on natural systems:
1. Energy Use And Generation: Design of the building, its systems, and/or site that allow for a
significant reduction in energy usage as compared with other buildings of similar type and/or
the generation of energy from an on‐site renewable resource. Each home runs east to west, providing excellent
coverage and opportunity for solar panels.
2. Reuse Of Priority Site: Locate on a brownfield where soil or groundwater contamination has
been identified, and where the local, State, or national authority (whichever has jurisdiction)
requires its remediation. Perform remediation to the satisfaction of that authority. This site has never been developed
and is not a brownfield
F. Master Plan Implementation: A project that helps implement portions of an adopted Master Plan
in instances where the Master Plan provides specific guidance on the character of the immediate
vicinity of the proposal:
1. A project that is consistent with the guidance of the Master Plan related to building scale,
building orientation, site layout, or other similar character‐defining features. (Ord. 8‐18,
2018) Yes, this site was previously identified by the City Council/Planning Commission as in inner‐block development for
the SR3 zone
2. Whether the building orientation and building materials in the proposed planned development
are compatible with the neighborhood where the planned development will be located and/or the
policies stated in an applicable Master Plan related to building and site design;
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
3. Whether building setbacks along the perimeter of the development:
a. Maintain the visual character of the neighborhood or the character described in the
applicable Master Plan. Yes, we meet setback requirements for the SR3 zone
b. Provide sufficient space for private amenities. Yes, the common space is very natural for walking, bicycles, visiting
neighbors, etc. We do not provide a swimming pool or heavy, costly amenities due to the nearby County fitness center
(Northwest), the Jordan River Parkway, and more.
c. Provide sufficient open space buffering between the proposed development and
neighboring properties to minimize impacts related to privacy and noise. Yes, we meet setback requirements for the SR3
zone
d. Provide adequate sight lines to streets, driveways and sidewalks. Yes, we comply with AASHTO site requirements and
city ordinances.
e. Provide sufficient space for maintenance. Yes, each home has adequate space for yard and home maintenance tools.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
4. Whether building facades offer ground floor transparency, access, and architectural detailing to
facilitate pedestrian interest and interaction; Yes, each home is designed with interest, safety, and connectivity. Each
home has a front porch, substantial glass, and is well‐lit. This provides built‐in interest and interaction.
5. Whether the lighting is designed for safety and visual interest while minimizing impacts on
surrounding property; Yes, both the individual home and the paseo are well‐lit for safety and interest.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
6. Whether dumpsters, loading docks and/or service areas are appropriately screened; Each home will have its trash and
recycle cans stored in the garages or tucked away between the homes.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
7. Whether parking areas are appropriately buffered from adjacent uses. There will be on‐street guest parking on the 32'
wide street (Hoyt Place) while each home has on‐site, alley fed, parking.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
D. Landscaping: The proposed planned development preserves, maintains or provides native

                                                          26
                                                           2
                                                           35
landscaping where appropriate. In determining the landscaping for the proposed planned
development, the Planning Commission should consider:
1. Whether mature native trees located along the periphery of the property and along the street are
preserved and maintained;
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
2. Whether existing landscaping that provides additional buffering to the abutting properties is
maintained and preserved; There are no trees on the subject property other than a few "junk", non‐native bushes.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
3. Whether proposed landscaping is designed to lessen potential impacts created by the proposed
planned development; Native trees and native, water‐wise landscaping will be installed
Discussion:
Fill out this section..
4. Whether proposed landscaping is appropriate for the scale of the development. Yes. To be shown on landscape detail
E. Mobility: The proposed planned development supports Citywide transportation goals and
promotes safe and efficient circulation within the site and surrounding neighborhood. In
determining mobility, the Planning Commission should consider:
1. Whether drive access to local streets will negatively impact the safety, purpose and character of
the street; Hoyt Place is a quiet, dead‐end street. Traffic will enter and exit on 900 West, which easily accommodates
this amount of added traffic
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
2. Whether the site design considers safe circulation for a range of transportation options
including:
a. Safe and accommodating pedestrian environment and pedestrian oriented design; Yes, via connected sidewalks and
paseos.
b. Bicycle facilities and connections where appropriate, and orientation to transit where
available; and. Yes, each home has adequate bike storage and the subject site has excelled bicycle and walking linkages
to mass transit, retail, regional trails, etc.
c. Minimizing conflicts between different transportation modes; Yes, public safety is prominently featured in the design.
Cars are separated from pedestrians and bicycles.
Discussion:
Fill out this section..
3. Whether the site design of the proposed development promotes or enables access to adjacent
uses and amenities; Yes, walkways and travelways provide direct and easy access to grocery, schools, banks, rec center,
state fairground, regional trails, and more.
Discussion:
Fill out this section..
4. Whether the proposed design provides adequate emergency vehicle access; Yes, we meet the standards for the IFC
(International Fire Code) and other applicable city ordinances.
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
5. Whether loading access and service areas are adequate for the site and minimize impacts to the
surrounding area and public rights‐of‐way. Yes, we meet the private street dimensions, the IFC, and AASHTO
Discussion:
Fill out this section..

F. Existing Site Features: The proposed planned development preserves natural and built
features that significantly contribute to the character of the neighborhood and/or
environment. N/A. It is a vacant parcel
Discussion:

                                                           27
                                                            3
                                                           36
Fill out this section..
G. Utilities: Existing and/or planned utilities will adequately serve the development and not
have a detrimental effect on the surrounding area. New utilities and road have been installed next to the subject parcel
Discussion:
Fill out this section.
Please provide a Disclosure of Private Infrastructure Costs according to
the requirements below:
21A.55.110: DISCLOSURE OF PRIVATE INFRASTRUCTURE COSTS FOR
PLANNED DEVELOPMENTS:
Planned developments, approved under this title after January 1, 1997, shall include provisions for disclosure
of future private infrastructure maintenance and placement costs to unit owners.
A. Infrastructure Maintenance Estimates: Using generally accepted accounting principles, the developer of
any planned development shall calculate an initial estimate of the costs for maintenance and capital
improvements of all infrastructure for the planned development including roads, sidewalks, curbs, gutters,
water and sewer pipes and related facilities, drainage systems, landscaped or paved common areas and
other similar facilities (&quot;infrastructure&quot;), for a period of sixty (60) years following the recording of the
subdivision plat or the estimated date of first unit occupancy of the planned development, whichever is
later. In process
B. Initial Estimate Disclosure: The following measures shall be incorporated in planned developments to
assure that owners and future owners have received adequate disclosure of potential infrastructure
maintenance and replacement costs:
1. the cost estimate shall be recorded with and referenced on the recorded plat for any planned
development. The initial disclosure estimate shall cover all private infrastructure items and shall be
prepared for six (6) increments of ten (10) years each. In process
2. The recorded plat shall also contain a statement entitled &quot;notice to purchasers&quot; disclosing that the
infrastructure is privately owned and that the maintenance, repair, replacement and operation of the
infrastructure is the responsibility of the property owners and will not be assumed by the City. In process
3. The cost estimate shall be specifically and separately disclosed to the purchaser of any property in the
planned development, upon initial purchase and also upon all future purchases for the duration of the
sixty (60) year period. In process
C. Yearly Maintenance Statements: The entity responsible for the operation and maintenance of the
infrastructure shall, at least once each calendar year, notify all property owners in the planned
development of the estimated yearly expenditures for maintenance, repair, operation or replacement of
infrastructure, and at least once each calendar year shall notify all property owners of the actual
expenditures incurred, and shall specify the reason(s) for any variance between the estimated
expenditures and the actual expenditures. In process
D. Maintenance Responsibilities: The property owners in a planned development shall be collectively and
individually responsible, on a pro rata basis, for operating, maintaining, repairing and replacing
infrastructure to the extent necessary to ensure that access to the planned development is available to the
City for emergency and other services and to ensure that the condition of the private infrastructure allows
for the City&#39;s continued and uninterrupted operation of public facilities to which the private infrastructure
may be connected or to which it may be adjacent. In process




                                                           28
                                                            4
                                                           37
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION PLANS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                      HOYT PLACE SUBDIVISION - PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST 1/4 OF SECTION 35,
                                                                                                                  INTERSECTION 900 WEST & 300 NORTH                                                                                                   TOWNSHIP 1N, RANGE 1W,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            INTERSECTION 800 WEST
          PROJECT                                                                                                 2" BRASS DISC                         (N89°59'11"E 792.00) N89°59'09"E 792.46                                                     SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           & 300 NORTH
         LOCATION                                                                                                 ELEV: 4225.00                                   BASIS OF BEARING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      2" BRASS DISC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH




               VICINITY MAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             08-35-426-004
                                                                                                                                                      08-35-405-001




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              08-35-405-008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                08-35-405-009
                              INDEX TO SHEETS                                                                                                                                                    08-35-405-002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    08-35-405-006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PERRY E. & MERGARET SPIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               08-35-405-003                                 08-35-405-004                                                                   08-35-405-005                                                                                                08-35-405-007
                       SHEET NAME                                          SHEET No.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       08-35-426-022
SITE PLAN                                                                     C-1
NOTES, SECTIONS & DETAILS                                                     C-2
GRADING PLAN                                                                  C-3
UTILITY PLAN                                                                  C-4                                                                     08-35-405-010

PLAN & PROFILE                                                              C-5 - C-6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N89° 59' 03.04"E 112.58'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      08-35-426-010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5'                     92.58'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             OPEN SPACE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               32.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            32.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          YD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALLEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              304                                                                                                                                                                  3,228 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,971 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                              08-35-405-011                                                                                                3,012 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               92.58'                                                                                               105                                                                                                          110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,286 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,428 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S00° 00' 55.63"E 148.56'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               32.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 N00° 00' 55.16"W 148.56'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    104




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5' STBK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            32.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              303




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (TYP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 109




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
      LEGEND                                                                                                                                                  08-35-405-012                                                  C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2,962 SF                                                                                                             1,364 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               1,224 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               92.58'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            08-35-426-011




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        68.58'                                                    24.00'                                                                            103




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                           EX PAVEMENT EDGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    23.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               23.03'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 108




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                           NEW CONCRETE WALK, CURB & GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                1,650 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GARDEN                                                                                                                                                                                            1,513 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WW
                           NEW AC PAVEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    553 SF                                                                                                                                    ALLEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                22.00'            24.00'                                                                                                                                2,570 SF
                           NEW CONCRETE PAVEMENT                                                                                                              08-35-405-013                                                                                                                      46.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    102                                                                                                          107




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                           EX BUILDING TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            84.03'
                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                  N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             2,332 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               2,023 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     MARICRUZ L. VARGAS
                           EX BUILDING TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                            302




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       08-35-426-023
                           NEW BUILDING ENEVELOPE                                                                                                                                                                                                       4,420 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               61.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        301                                                                                                                                                                E1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      61.00'
                           PROJECT/PHASE BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         MARICRUZ L. VARGAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PHA
                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          08-35-426-012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2,806 SF
                           NEW PARCEL LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                              08-35-405-014                                                                                                                                                                                                                         101                                                                                                          106




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                           EXISTING PARCEL LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S                                                                                                                                                                  2,733 SF                                                                                       Y               2,550 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WWW                                   S                           S            W
                           EASEMENT LINE
                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       46.56'                                      46.02'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            68.00'
                           ROADWAY CENTERLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Salt Lake City • Sacramento
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S89° 59' 04.37"W 112.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                     10' SIGHT TRIANGLE                                                                                                                                                                                                HOYT PLACE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    801.709.0799                                         916.778.0770
                                                                                                                  8''W        8''W        8''W        8''W
                                                                    30             0     15   30                                                                     8''W             8''W                                   8''W                    8''W                  8''W                     8''W                            8''W                                                     8''W            8''W                                       8''W                                       8''W                         8''W


                                                                             SCALE: 1"=30'                                                                                                                                                  S               SS                             SS                                  SS                                                                   SS                              SS                   S                                         SS                                               SS                            SS                                            SS                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                08-35-426-013
                                                                                                   900 WEST




                                                                                                                                                             SS                 SS
     PROJECT NOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N89° 59' 04.37"E 82.56'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                         SS
     OWNER /                 DAVE ROBINSON                                                                                                             65.55'                                54.54'
                                                                                                                                                                                             W                                          W        S             WWW                                      W                       W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               61.52'                                     21.04'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S S S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          165.07'
                                                                                                                                                                            S S S S
     DEVELOPER               CITYBLOCK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10'                  5'
                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          40.00'
                             801-476-5696
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                201
                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        40.00' S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.5'
     ZONING                  SR-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,461 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N00°00'56"W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                              D                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               61.52'
     APNS                    08-35-405-015; 08-35-405-016;
                                                                                                                             Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S89°59'04"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        08-35-426-014
                                                                                                                             H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                HOYT PLACE SUBDIVISION
                             08-35-406-007; 08-35-406-008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   795 WASATCH PROPERTIES LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          29.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        29.00'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                MICHAEL P. & ELIZABETH M. NIELSEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MICHELLE FAHMY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                202




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               08-35-406-006
     PROJECT AREA            0.70 ACRES
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,784 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    TAX ID NO. 08-35-406-019




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         08-35-406-022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               61.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  08-35-426-002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
     PARKING                 REQUIRED: SR3 - 1 SPACE / DWELLING
                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                             PROVIDED: 9 SPACES - 2.25 / DWELLING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          29.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S00° 00' 55.63"E 165.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   ALLEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        29.00' S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                203




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N00° 00' 55.00"W 165.07'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3,473 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,784 SF
                                                                                                                                                                  08-35-406-002                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               08-35-426-015




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               61.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        30.02'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30.02'
                                     This application (PLNPCM2023-00900)                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        204




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             1,847 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                     is only for these properties, the proposal                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               61.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          WW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           S89°59'06"W

                                     across the street will be submitted at a                                                                                      08-35-406-003                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             08-35-426-016




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        37.05' S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          37.05'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                205                                                      S

                                     later date.


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7' ESMT                                                                       2,279 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               61.52'                                     21.04'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S89° 59' 06.20"W 82.56'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             08-35-426-021
                                                                                                                                                                  08-35-406-004

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT No:                                                       1701c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION
NOTES
1.   SEE SHEET C-2 FOR PROJECT NOTES AND TYPICAL SECTIONS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             08-35-406-018                                                                                                                                                                                                                            DRAWN:                                                                  KDC
2.   PROVIDE 10' EASEMENTS TO PROPERTY OWNERS FOR SEWER AND WATER CONNECTIONS CROSSING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          CHECKED:                                                                SLK
     PROPERTY LINES.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    08-35-406-012                                                                                                                                     08-35-406-015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              08-35-406-023                                                                                                                  08-35-426-019                      DATE:                                                       2/13/2023
3.   ALLEY AND COMMON AREAS TO BE MAINTAINED BY HOA.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      08-35-426-003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            08-35-406-014                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       SCALE:                                                            1"=30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 08-35-406-013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                SHEET No.




                                                                                                                  INTERSECTION 900 WEST & 200 NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              C-1
                                                                                                                  MONUMENT NOT FOUND                                                                                                                                                                         29                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     COPYRIGHT © 2023 DELTA ENGINEERING, LLC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             38                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. REPRODUCTION OF ANY KIND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       WITHOUT PERMISSION IS PROHIBITED.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            CONSTRUCTION PLANS FOR
                                                                                                                                                                                      HOYT PLACE SUBDIVISION - PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            LOCATED IN THE SOUTHEAST 1/4 OF SECTION 35,
                                                                                                                  INTERSECTION 900 WEST & 300 NORTH                                                                                                   TOWNSHIP 1N, RANGE 1W,                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  INTERSECTION 800 WEST
          PROJECT                                                                                                 2" BRASS DISC                         (N89°59'11"E 792.00) N89°59'09"E 792.46                                                     SALT LAKE BASE & MERIDIAN                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 & 300 NORTH
         LOCATION                                                                                                 ELEV: 4225.00                                   BASIS OF BEARING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2" BRASS DISC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH




               VICINITY MAP




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   08-35-426-004
                                                                                                                                                      08-35-405-001




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    08-35-405-008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      08-35-405-009
                              INDEX TO SHEETS                                                                                                                                                    08-35-405-002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    08-35-405-006




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PERRY E. & MERGARET SPIGHT
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               08-35-405-003                                 08-35-405-004                                                                          08-35-405-005                                                                                                              08-35-405-007
                       SHEET NAME                                          SHEET No.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             08-35-426-022
SITE PLAN                                                                     C-1
NOTES, SECTIONS & DETAILS                                                     C-2
GRADING PLAN                                                                  C-3
UTILITY PLAN                                                                  C-4                                                                     08-35-405-010

PLAN & PROFILE                                                              C-5 - C-6




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       6'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                N89° 59' 03.04"E 112.58'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            08-35-426-010
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      5'                     92.58'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            10'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            OPEN SPACE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        32.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            32.53'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             YD
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALLEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              304                                                                                                                                                                                  3,228 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            2,971 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W
                                                                                                                                                              08-35-405-011                                                                                                3,012 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               92.58'                                                                                                         105                                                                                                                      110
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,286 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,428 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          S00° 00' 55.63"E 148.56'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        32.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                 N00° 00' 55.16"W 148.56'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              104




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     5' STBK
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            32.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              303




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      (TYP)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       109




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
      LEGEND                                                                                                                                                  08-35-405-012                                                  C



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           2,962 SF                                                                                                                    1,364 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,224 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               92.58'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  08-35-426-011




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        68.58'                                                    24.00'                                                                                      103




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                           EX PAVEMENT EDGE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    23.03'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        23.03'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       108




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                           NEW CONCRETE WALK, CURB & GUTTER




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       1,650 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             C
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             GARDEN                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1,513 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WW
                           NEW AC PAVEMENT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    553 SF                                                                                                                                                    ALLEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                22.00'            24.00'                                                                                                                                                2,570 SF
                           NEW CONCRETE PAVEMENT                                                                                                              08-35-405-013                                                                                                                      46.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              102                                                                                                                      107




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                           EX BUILDING TO BE REMOVED




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            84.03'
                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                  N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2,332 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    2,023 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MARICRUZ L. VARGAS
                           EX BUILDING TO REMAIN                                                                                                                                                                                                            302




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WW




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             08-35-426-023
                           NEW BUILDING ENEVELOPE                                                                                                                                                                                                       4,420 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        61.00'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        301                                                                                                                                                                                   E1




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      61.00'
                           PROJECT/PHASE BOUNDARY                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  S                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MARICRUZ L. VARGAS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PHA
                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  20'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                08-35-426-012
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2,806 SF
                           NEW PARCEL LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                              08-35-405-014                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   101                                                                                                                      106




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S
                           EXISTING PARCEL LINE




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                             S                                                                                                                                                                          2,733 SF                                                                                                  Y                 2,550 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            WWW                                   S                           S            W
                           EASEMENT LINE
                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       46.56'                                      46.02'                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  68.00'
                           ROADWAY CENTERLINE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Salt Lake City • Sacramento
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 S89° 59' 04.37"W 112.58'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        SS
                                                                                                                                                                     10' SIGHT TRIANGLE                                                                                                                                                                                                HOYT PLACE                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          801.709.0799                                         916.778.0770
                                                                                                                  8''W        8''W        8''W        8''W
                                                                    30             0     15   30                                                                     8''W             8''W                                   8''W                    8''W                  8''W                     8''W                                     8''W                                                   8''W                    8''W                                        8''W                                           8''W                           8''W


                                                                             SCALE: 1"=30'                                                                                                                                                  S                                                                                                                                                SS                                                                          S                                                                                                SS                            SS                                            SS                       S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            SS                              SS                             SS                                           SS                                                              5'-0" SS                                                                                                      SS                                                                                                                                                                                                            08-35-426-013
                                                                                                   900 WEST




                                                                                                                                                             SS                 SS
     PROJECT NOTES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     N89° 59' 04.37"E 82.56'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                         SS




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         13'-6"
     OWNER /                 DAVE ROBINSON                                                                                                             65.55'                                54.54'
                                                                                                                                                                                             W                                          W        S             WWW                                      W                                 W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      61.52'                                              21.04'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S S S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          165.07'
                                                                                                                                                                            S S S S
     DEVELOPER               CITYBLOCK                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 10'                                 5'
                                                                                                              W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          40.00'
                             801-476-5696
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       201 42%
                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       40.00' S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.5'
     ZONING                  SR-3                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   10'-0"                                          1,023.23
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     2,461 SF sf




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          N00°00'56"W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  4'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 61.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           4'-6"
                                                                                                                              D
     APNS                    08-35-405-015; 08-35-405-016;
                                                                                                                             Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S89°59'04"W                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           08-35-426-014
                                                                                                                             H




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      HOYT PLACE SUBDIVISION
                             08-35-406-007; 08-35-406-008




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         795 WASATCH PROPERTIES LLC
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.5'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            52%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          29.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29.00'S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      MICHAEL P. & ELIZABETH M. NIELSEN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              MICHELLE FAHMY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      202 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     930.21




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               08-35-406-006
     PROJECT AREA            0.70 ACRES                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         5'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     21.05 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,784 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          TAX ID NO. 08-35-406-019
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            4'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               08-35-406-022
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      61.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        08-35-426-002
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  150.00 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
     PARKING                 REQUIRED: SR3 - 1 SPACE / DWELLING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10'-0"
                                                                                                                                     W




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 165.07 ft
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                             PROVIDED: 9 SPACES - 2.25 / DWELLING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          29.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S00° 00' 55.63"E 165.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           53%                    ALLEY




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       29.00' S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      203 sf




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               N00° 00' 55.00"W 165.07'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     929.96




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  SITE PLAN
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3,473 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,784 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    4'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                  08-35-406-002                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     08-35-426-015




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      61.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PHASE 2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             4'-6"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       30.02'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            53%




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          30.02'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      204 sf
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     978.15




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,847 SF




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         SS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      4'-6"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 61.52'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                4.50 ft


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         WW
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              S89°59'06"W
                                                                                                                                                                   08-35-406-003                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   08-35-426-016




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       37.05' S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               46%
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          37.05'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    1,046.28
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      205    sf                                                          S




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   8''W
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               7' ESMT                                                                              2,279 SF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      61.52'                                              21.04'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Y




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        D
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                H
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     S89° 59' 06.20"W 82.56'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     10'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   08-35-426-021
                                                                                                                                                                  08-35-406-004

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      PROJECT No:                                                       1701c




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION
NOTES
1.   SEE SHEET C-2 FOR PROJECT NOTES AND TYPICAL SECTIONS.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    08-35-406-018                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DRAWN:                                                                  KDC
2.   PROVIDE 10' EASEMENTS TO PROPERTY OWNERS FOR SEWER AND WATER CONNECTIONS CROSSING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                CHECKED:                                                                SLK
     PROPERTY LINES.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    08-35-406-012                                                                                                                                                     08-35-406-015
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    08-35-406-023                                                                                                                  08-35-426-019                      DATE:                                                       2/13/2023
3.   ALLEY AND COMMON AREAS TO BE MAINTAINED BY HOA.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            08-35-426-003
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            08-35-406-014                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             SCALE:                                                            1"=30'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 08-35-406-013
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SHEET No.




                                                                                                                  INTERSECTION 900 WEST & 200 NORTH
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    C-1
                                                                                                                  MONUMENT NOT FOUND                                                                                                                                                                         30                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           COPYRIGHT © 2023 DELTA ENGINEERING, LLC.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             39                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. REPRODUCTION OF ANY KIND
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             WITHOUT PERMISSION IS PROHIBITED.
31
40
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  801.557.6711 | www.dgdraftinganddesign.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Stock Plans | Custom Design | Drafting Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           DG Drafting & Design
                                                                                                                                              (OPTIONAL)
                                                                                                                                              FIREPLACE EXHAUST VENT W/ SPARK
                                                                                                                                              ARRESTER PER MANUFACTURER
                                                                                                                                              (FIELD VERIFY EXACT LOCATION)
                                                                               12                               12
                                                                           9                                         9
              STANDING SEAM METAL
                          ROOFING
              (COLOR TO BE MEDIUM
             GRAY (NON-REFLECTIVE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            27'-111 2" (28'-0" MAX. HEIGHT RESTRICTION)
                           TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                    TOP OF PLATE
                             EL = 118.229'                                                                                               EL = 118.229'
                                                                                                          205




8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                         8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                       19'-23 4" (20'-0" MAX WALL HEIGHT)
             12" METAL PANEL SIDING
               (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
             DETERMINED BY OWNER)                                                   (EGRESS)                                                                                                                                                                                     © COPYRIGHT 2017:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           REPRODUCTION OF ANY PORTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              OF THESE PLANS FOR ANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          PURPOSE IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED


                           TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                    TOP OF FLOOR
                             EL = 110.229'                                                                                                EL = 110.229'
                           TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                    TOP OF PLATE
                             EL = 109.00'                                                                                                 EL = 109.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Hoyt Residence
                                                                                                                 100




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Hoyt Place Subdivision - Phase 2

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Salt Lake City, UT 84116
9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                         9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hoyt Place Unit #1-5
                    FINISHED GRADE
             (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST
                   10'-0" AWAY FROM
                                                                                                                                              FINISHED GRADE
           STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR
                                                                                                                                              (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST
            STORM WATER DRAINAGE)                                                                                                             10'-0" AWAY FROM
                                                                                                                                              STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR
                                                                                                                                              STORM WATER DRAINAGE)

                            TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                  TOP OF FLOOR
                              EL = 100.00'                                                                                                EL = 100.00'
                 (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                                                                                                (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)
                            4226.996'                                                                                                                                    4226.85'


                             TOP OF FOOTING                                                                                            TOP OF FOOTING

                                                                                                                                  NOTE!
                  LINE OF EXISTING GRADE          GFCI/ WP OUTLET                                                                 IN ALL CASES PERIMETER FOOTING SHALL BE CONTINUOUS
                         (SHOWN DASHED)       (FIELD VERIFY EXACT                                                                 AND EXTEND TO OR BELOW THE 30” FROST LINE
                                                        LOCATION)                                                                 DEPTH MEASURED FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE FOOTING TO
                                                                                                                                  THE FINISHED GRADE. R403.1.2 & 403.1.4

                                                                    FRONT ELEVATION
                                                   02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Project:
                                                                    SCALE 1/8" = 1'-0" (11 X 17 PAPER) OR                                                                                                                                                                      CONTRACTOR & ALL SUB

                                                                    1/4" = 1'-0" (22 X 34 PAPER)                                                                                                                                                                          CONTRACTORS WORKING ON THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           PROJECT TAKE FULL LIABILITY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              THESE PLANS AND SHALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          THOROUGHLY REVIEW AND VERIFY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ALL DIMENSIONS, LOCATIONS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          NOTES, ETC. PRIOR TO STARTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            ANY STAGE OF CONSTRUCTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    325 West 700 North, Suite 11 Salt Lake City, UT 84103
                          (OPTIONAL)
   FIREPLACE EXHAUST VENT W/ SPARK
         ARRESTER PER MANUFACTURER
       (FIELD VERIFY EXACT LOCATION)
                                                                               12                               12




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            TEL 801.372.2950
                                                                           9                                         9




                                                                                                                                                                                                                            27'-111 2" (28'-0" MAX. HEIGHT RESTRICTION)
                           TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                    TOP OF PLATE
                             EL = 118.229'                                                                                               EL = 118.229'
                                                                                     212                  211

           NICHIHA OR EQUAL SIDING                                                                                                            NICHIHA OR EQUAL SIDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Client:
               (COLOR / STYLE TO BE                                                                                                           (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
             DETERMINED BY OWNER)                                                                                                             DETERMINED BY OWNER)
8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                         8'-0"
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Project Info: Custom Plan




                                                                                                                                                                                       19'-23 4" (20'-0" MAX WALL HEIGHT)
            12" METAL PANEL SIDING                                                                                                            12" METAL PANEL SIDING
               (COLOR / STYLE TO BE                                                                                                           (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
             DETERMINED BY OWNER)                                                    (EGRESS)        (EGRESS)                                 DETERMINED BY OWNER)




                           TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                    TOP OF FLOOR
                             EL = 110.229'                                                                                                EL = 110.229'
                           TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                    TOP OF PLATE
                             EL = 109.00'                                                                                                 EL = 109.00'




                                                                                           100
9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                         9'-0"
                    FINISHED GRADE                                                                                                            FINISHED GRADE
             (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST                                                           (EGRESS)                                       (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST
                   10'-0" AWAY FROM                                                                                                           10'-0" AWAY FROM
           STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR                                                                                                             STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR
            STORM WATER DRAINAGE)                                                                                                             STORM WATER DRAINAGE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Stamp:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Drawing Information:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Project Number:                                     1101-003-17
                            TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                  TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                                    Project Manager:                                    DLG
                              EL = 100.00'                                                                                                EL = 100.00'                                                                                                                    Project Engineer
                 (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                                                                                                (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                                                                                                       Date:                                               12-17-2021

4226.85'                                                                                                                                       4226.996'                                                                                                                  Revision:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          MRK              DESCRIPTION                                                                    DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              1       -                                                                                                                        -
                             TOP OF FOOTING                                                                                            TOP OF FOOTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              2       -                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                              NOTE!
                  LINE OF EXISTING GRADE                                                                                      IN ALL CASES PERIMETER FOOTING SHALL BE CONTINUOUS                                                                                              3       -                                                                                                                        -

                         (SHOWN DASHED)                                                                                       AND EXTEND TO OR BELOW THE 30” FROST LINE
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              4       -                                                                                                                        -
                                                                                                                              DEPTH MEASURED FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE FOOTING TO
                                                                                                                              THE FINISHED GRADE. R403.1.2 & 403.1.4                                                                                                          5       -                                                                                                                        -


                                                                    REAR ELEVATION
                                                   01               SCALE 1/8" = 1'-0" (11 X 17 PAPER) OR
                                                                    1/4" = 1'-0" (22 X 34 PAPER)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Sheet Title:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              A3.1
                                                                                                                         32
                                                                                                                         41
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       801.557.6711 | www.dgdraftinganddesign.com
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Stock Plans | Custom Design | Drafting Services
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                DG Drafting & Design
                          (OPTIONAL)
   FIREPLACE EXHAUST VENT W/ SPARK
         ARRESTER PER MANUFACTURER              9:12                                                                                      9:12
       (FIELD VERIFY EXACT LOCATION)



                                                                                                                                                                 STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING
                                                                                                                                                                 (COLOR TO BE MEDIUM GRAY
        STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING
                                                                                                                                                                 (NON-REFLECTIVE)
           (COLOR TO BE MEDIUM GRAY
                    (NON-REFLECTIVE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 27'-111 2" (28'-0" MAX. HEIGHT RESTRICTION)
                             TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                                     TOP OF PLATE
                               EL = 118.229'                                                                                                                EL = 118.229'



                        METAL SIDING                   204                                                                          201                          METAL SIDING
                 (COLOR / STYLE TO BE                                                                                                                            (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
               DETERMINED BY OWNER)                                                                                                                              DETERMINED BY OWNER)




8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                    8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                            19'-23 4" (20'-0" MAX WALL HEIGHT)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      © COPYRIGHT 2017:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                REPRODUCTION OF ANY PORTION
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   OF THESE PLANS FOR ANY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               PURPOSE IS STRICTLY PROHIBITED


                             TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                                    TOP OF FLOOR
                               EL = 110.229'                                                                                                                EL = 110.229'
                             TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                                     TOP OF PLATE
                               EL = 109.00'                                                                                                                  EL = 109.00'




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          Hoyt Residence
                                                                                                                                                                     HOSE BIB
                                                                                                                                                                     (FIELD VERIFY EXACT




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 Hoyt Place Subdivision - Phase 2
                                                                                                102                                 101                              LOCATION)
                                                               102




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Salt Lake City, UT 84116
9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                    9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      Hoyt Place Unit #1-5
                      FINISHED GRADE                                                                                                                             FINISHED GRADE
               (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST                                                                                                                           (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST
                     10'-0" AWAY FROM                                                                                                                            10'-0" AWAY FROM
             STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR                                                                                                                              STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR
              STORM WATER DRAINAGE)                                                                                                                              STORM WATER DRAINAGE)


                                                               (EGRESS)
                              TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                                   TOP OF FLOOR
                                EL = 100.00'                                                                                                                 EL = 100.00'
                   (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                                                                                                                 (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)




                               TOP OF FOOTING                                                                                                             TOP OF FOOTING



                    LINE OF EXISTING GRADE                                                                                                                  LINE OF EXISTING GRADE
                           (SHOWN DASHED)                                                                                                                   (SHOWN DASHED)



                                                                                 LEFT ELEVATION
                                                                          02




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Project:
                                                                                                                                                 NOTE!
                                                                                                                                                 IN ALL CASES PERIMETER FOOTING SHALL BE CONTINUOUS
                                                                                                                                                 AND EXTEND TO OR BELOW THE 30” FROST LINE
                                                                                 SCALE 1/8" = 1'-0" (11 X 17 PAPER) OR                           DEPTH MEASURED FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE FOOTING TO
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    CONTRACTOR & ALL SUB
                                                                                                                                                 THE FINISHED GRADE. R403.1.2 & 403.1.4
                                                                                 1/4" = 1'-0" (22 X 34 PAPER)                                                                                                                                                                                  CONTRACTORS WORKING ON THIS
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                PROJECT TAKE FULL LIABILITY OF
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   THESE PLANS AND SHALL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               THOROUGHLY REVIEW AND VERIFY
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ALL DIMENSIONS, LOCATIONS,
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               NOTES, ETC. PRIOR TO STARTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 ANY STAGE OF CONSTRUCTION.




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         325 West 700 North, Suite 11 Salt Lake City, UT 84103
                                                9:12                                                                                      9:12




                                                                                                                                                                 STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 TEL 801.372.2950
                                                                                                                                                                 (COLOR TO BE MEDIUM GRAY
        STANDING SEAM METAL ROOFING
                                                                                                                                                                 (NON-REFLECTIVE)
           (COLOR TO BE MEDIUM GRAY
                    (NON-REFLECTIVE)




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 27'-111 2" (28'-0" MAX. HEIGHT RESTRICTION)
                             TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                                     TOP OF PLATE
                               EL = 118.229'                                                                                                                EL = 118.229'


                                                             210           209                                    207         206                                METAL SIDING




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Client:
                                                                                                                                                                 (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
                                                                                                                                                                 DETERMINED BY OWNER)
8'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                            8'-0"
                        METAL SIDING                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Project Info: Custom Plan




                                                                                                                                                                                                            19'-23 4" (20'-0" MAX WALL HEIGHT)
                 (COLOR / STYLE TO BE
               DETERMINED BY OWNER)




                             TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                                    TOP OF FLOOR
                               EL = 110.229'                                                                                                                EL = 110.229'
                             TOP OF PLATE                                                                                                                     TOP OF PLATE
                               EL = 109.00'                                                                                                                  EL = 109.00'


                                                                                                                                                                 HOSE BIB
                                                                                                                                                                 (FIELD VERIFY EXACT
                                                                                                                  103                                            LOCATION)
9'-0"




                                                                                                                                                                                            9'-0"
                      FINISHED GRADE                                                                                                                             FINISHED GRADE
               (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST                                                                                                                           (6" MIN. SLOPE IN FIRST
                     10'-0" AWAY FROM                                                                                                                            10'-0" AWAY FROM
             STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR                                                                                                                              STRUCTURE TO ALLOW FOR
              STORM WATER DRAINAGE)                                                                                                                              STORM WATER DRAINAGE)
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Stamp:

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Drawing Information:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Project Number:                                     1101-003-17
                              TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                                   TOP OF FLOOR                                                                                                                      Project Manager:                                    DLG
                                EL = 100.00'                                                                                                                 EL = 100.00'                                                                                                                      Project Engineer
                   (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                                                                                                                 (100.00' = 4227.85' REF.)                                                                                                         Date:                                               12-17-2021

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Revision:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               MRK              DESCRIPTION                                                                    DATE

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   1       -                                                                                                                        -
                               TOP OF FOOTING                                                                                                             TOP OF FOOTING
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   2       -                                                                                                                        -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   3       -                                                                                                                        -
                    LINE OF EXISTING GRADE                                                                                                                  LINE OF EXISTING GRADE
                           (SHOWN DASHED)                                                                                                                   (SHOWN DASHED)                                                                                                                         4       -                                                                                                                        -

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   5       -                                                                                                                        -


                                                                                 RIGHT ELEVATION
                                                                          01     SCALE 1/8" = 1'-0" (11 X 17 PAPER) OR
                                                                                 1/4" = 1'-0" (22 X 34 PAPER)
                                                                                                                                                 NOTE!
                                                                                                                                                 IN ALL CASES PERIMETER FOOTING SHALL BE CONTINUOUS
                                                                                                                                                 AND EXTEND TO OR BELOW THE 30” FROST LINE
                                                                                                                                                 DEPTH MEASURED FROM THE BOTTOM OF THE FOOTING TO
                                                                                                                                                 THE FINISHED GRADE. R403.1.2 & 403.1.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               Sheet Title:




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  A3.2
                                                                                                                         33
                                                                                                                         42
ATTACHMENT C: Property & Vicinity Photos




Above and below: View of subject site from Hoyt Place (the street), note Solis Apartments in background




PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                               April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development             34
                                                    43
Looking east from within subject site



Looking south from within subject site




PLNPCM2021-01241                                   April 10, 2024
Modifications to Row 17 Planned Devleopment   35
                                              44
Above: Hoyt Place Phase I development site

Below: Hoyt Place Phase I development site and Hoyt Place (the street)




Below: View Hoyt Place (the street) facing west from subject site




PLNPCM2021-01241                                                         April 10, 2024
Modifications to Row 17 Planned Devleopment          36
                                                     45
Above: Hoyt Place (the street) from 900 W



Bus stop for southbound UTA route 1                Bus stop for northbound UTA route 1




PLNPCM2021-01241                                                                         April 10, 2024
Modifications to Row 17 Planned Devleopment   37
                                              46
900 W from intersection with 300 N


900 W from intersection with 200 N




PLNPCM2021-01241                                   April 10, 2024
Modifications to Row 17 Planned Devleopment   38
                                              47
                                                 .




Above: Solis Apartment development at 900 W and 200 N

Below: Solis Apartments and corner commercial building at 900 W and 200 N




PLNPCM2021-01241                                                            April 10, 2024
Modifications to Row 17 Planned Devleopment      39
                                                 48
ATTACHMENT D: Zoning Standards Review
The tables below illustrate how the proposed lots will comply with relevant zoning standards.
Because the development plan submitted with this request is missing some details, some
standards will not be reviewed until the Building Permit review stage of the development process.
21A.24.100: SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential District
The purpose of the SR-3 special development pattern residential district is to provide lot, bulk
and use regulations, including a variety of housing types, in scale with the character of
development located within the interior portions of city blocks. Uses are intended to be
compatible with the existing scale, density and intensity of the neighborhood. The standards for
the district are intended to provide for safe and comfortable places to live and play, promote
sustainable and compatible development patterns and to preserve the existing character of the
neighborhood. This is a medium density zoning district. Off site parking facilities in this district
to supply required parking for new development may be approved as part of the conditional use
process.
Standard                              Proposed                                                     Finding
21A.24.010 – General Provisions for Residential Districts
21A.24.010.I – Front Façade Controls                The front façade of the proposed houses        Complies
10% of the front façade of each building must       has glass entries, a window, and a porch.
have an entry, windows, balconies, porches, or
something similar (garage does not count)
21A.24.010.J – Basement Structures                  The proposed buildings are not basement        Complies
Each building must have at least one full story     structures.
above ground, exceptions for houses on hillsides
21A.24.010.N – Landscaping within                   Front yards will be landscaped.                Complies
Front/Corner Side Yard
Front and Corner side yards must be                 Front yards are oriented to the west
maintained as landscape yards (see
Landscaping section for requirements)
21A.24.010.V – Entrance Landing                     Porch areas are proposed at the front of       Complies
Each exit door must have at least a 36” x 36”       each building.
concrete pad (uniform building code)
 21A.24.100 – Provisions for SR-3 Special Development Pattern Residential District
21A.24.100.C – Minimum Lot Area:                    All proposed buildings are single-family       Complies
Single-family Detached: 2,000 sq. ft.               detached.                                      with PD
                                                    • Lots 201 & 205 larger than 2,000 sf          approval
                                                    • Lots 202, 203, & 204 smaller than
                                                         2,000 sf
                                                    • Development is 14,374.8 sf in total,
                                                         allowing up to seven single-family lots
                                                    • 10,000 sf req’d for five proposed
                                                         lots
21A.24.100.C – Minimum Lot Width:                   All lots are interior lots.                    Complies
Single-family detached:                             • Lots 201 & 205 wider than 30’                with PD
Interior lot: 30 ft                                 • Lots 202, 203, & 204 narrower than           approval
Corner lot: 40 ft                                        30’
21A.24.100.D – Maximum Building                     Proposed buildings are shorter than 28         Complies
Height:                                             feet and roof slope is steep enough to
Pitched roofs: 28 feet (slope of 2:12 or steeper)   qualify (9:12).
Flat roofs: 20 feet
Measured from established grade
21A.24.100.D.3 – Exterior Wall Height:              Proposed walls are shorter than 20’            Complies
20 feet
Measured from finished grade
PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                                    April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development                40
                                                       49
21A.24.100.E.1 – Front Yard Setback:                 •    Unit 201 has a 13.5’ setback from Hoyt   Complies
 1. 10 feet or                                            Pl
 2. Average setback of block, or                     • Remaining units set back 10’ from
 3. Established by subdivision plat                       west lot line
21A.24.100.E.2 – Corner Side Yard                    No units are located adjacent to a public     N/A
Setback: 10 feet                                     street
21A.24.100.E.3 – Interior Side Setback:              • Unit 201: 10’ (west) & 5’ (east)            Complies
Single-family detached: 4 feet                       • Units 202, 203, & 204: 4.5’ on both
                                                          sides
                                                     • Unit 205: 4.5’ (north) & 10’ (south)
21A.24.100.E.4 – Rear Yard Setback:                  • Unit 201: 4.5’ (west) – 15’ req’d           Complies
 • 20% of lot depth                                  • Remaining units: 5’ (excluding alley)       with PD
 • Not less than 15 feet                                  15’ req’d                                approval
 • Not greater than 30 feet
21A.24.100.F – Max Building Coverage:                • Unit 201: 42%                               Complies
60% for detached dwellings (includes primary         • Unit 202: 52%
and accessory buildings)                             • Unit 203: 53%
                                                     • Unit 204: 53%
                                                     • Unit 205: 46%
                                                     • Site in total: 34%
21A.24.100.G – Max Lot Size                          None of the proposed lots are larger than    Complies
No more than 200% of min lot size, except for        4,000 sq ft (200% of min lot size).
lots created by a subdivision or subdivision
amendment
21A.24.100.H – Attached Garage                         Proposed garages are located in the rear   Complies
Standards:                                             yard, accessed by the private alley.
  • Garage width cannot exceed 50% of
     building
  • Behind or in line with front of building
 21A34.060 – Groundwater Source Protection Overlay (Primary Recharge Zone):
 The subject site is located within the Primary Recharge Zone of the Groundwater Source Protection Overlay
 District. Please ensure that Public Utilities has reviewed your stormwater pollution prevention plan (SWPPP)
 and construction drawings for conformance with this section of the regulations. Please contact Krissy Beitel at
 the Department of Public Utilities with any questions: 801-483-6733 or Kristeen.beitel@slcgov.com
 21A.36 – General Provisions
21A.36.010.B – One Principal Building                Only one principal building per lot is        Complies
No more than one principal building may be           proposed.
located on a single lot in SR-3 district
21A.36.010.C. – Frontage on Public                   The project site does not face a public       Complies
Street                                               street. This can be permitted through         with PD
All lots shall face a public street                  Planned Development approval.                 approval
 21A.40 – Accessory Uses, Buildings, And Structures
21A.40.050 – Yard, Bulk and Height for               No accessory buildings proposed               N/A
Accessory Buildings
Front yard: set back as far as principal structure
Corner side yard: set back as far as principal
structure, but no less than 20 feet from public
way
Interior side yard: district setback
Rear yard: one foot
21A.40.200 _Accessory Dwelling Units                 No exterior ADUs proposed.                    N/A
 21A.44 – Off Street Parking, Mobility, and Loading
21A.44.040.A – Required Parking                      2 tandem stalls are proposed for each unit.   Complies
Per Table 21A.44.040.A, 1 space per dwelling         Note: these stalls straddle property lines.   with
unit                                                 Access easements for each space will be       conditions


PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                                    April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development                  41
                                                         50
                                                    required for each space. See Key
                                                    Consideration 2.
                                                    Up to 2 additional spaces per unit if
                                                    optional garages are constructed
21A.44.060.A.6.c – Driveways                        The proposed shared alley access point to     Complies
• At least 20 ft from street corner property line   Hoyt Place is ~21 feet wide
• At least 5’ from utility infrastructure
• At least 8 ft wide
• No more than 22 feet wide
• Shared driveway entry allowed if approved by
  transportation division
21A.44.060.A.1 – Parking Location                   Proposed tandem spaces straddle lots          Complies
All required parking must be located on the         lines Access easements for each space will    with PD
same lot as the building or use it is serving       be required. See Key Consideration 2.         approval
21A.44.060.A.16 – Tandem Parking                    Tandem parking is proposed for each unit.     Complies
Required parking for residential uses may be        Note: these stalls straddle property lines.   with
tandem in groups of no more than 2. Each            Access easements for each space will be       conditions
group serves only one unit (Manual also states      required for each space. See Key
that tandem parking is permitted for single-        Consideration 2.
family, two-family, and twin homes)
 Parking Manual Requirements
1.1 Dimensions – 8’3” by 17’6” Tandem               Proposed spaces meet necessary                Complies
allowed                                             dimensions




PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                                   April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development               42
                                                       51
ATTACHMENT E: Planned Development
              Standards
  A. Planned Development Objectives: The planned development shall meet the purpose
     statement for a planned development (section 21A.55.010 of this chapter) and will achieve at
     least one of the objectives stated in said section. To determine if a planned development
     objective has been achieved, the applicant shall demonstrate that at least one of the strategies
     associated with the objective are included in the proposed planned development. The applicant
     shall also demonstrate why modifications to the zoning regulations are necessary to meet the
     purpose statement for a planned development. The Planning Commission should consider the
     relationship between the proposed modifications to the zoning regulations and the purpose of
     a planned development, and determine if the project will result in a more enhanced product
     than would be achievable through strict application of the land use regulations.
 Planned Development Purpose Statement: A planned development is intended to
 encourage the efficient use of land and resources, promoting greater efficiency in public and utility
 services and encouraging innovation in the planning and building of all types of development.
 Further, a planned development implements the purpose statement of the zoning district in which
 the project is located, utilizing an alternative approach to the design of the property and related
 physical facilities. A planned development incorporates special development characteristics that
 help to achieve City goals identified in adopted Master Plans and that provide an overall benefit
 to the community as determined by the planned development objectives. A planned development
 will result in a more enhanced product than would be achievable through strict application of land
 use regulations, while enabling the development to be compatible with adjacent and nearby land
 developments.
 Discussion:
 The proposed development efficiently uses the site in a way that would otherwise be difficult
 without Planned Development approval. As mentioned in Key Consideration 4, the requested
 modifications to the zoning standards enable new infill lots without removing existing units.
 They also allow for development that fulfills adopted plans and policies in a way that would
 otherwise be impossible. This is further discussed under Key Consideration 1.
 Finding: ☒ Meets ☐ Does Not Meet Planned Development Purpose Statement

  SR-3 Purpose Statement: The purpose of the SR-3 special development pattern residential
  district is to provide lot, bulk and use regulations, including a variety of housing types, in scale
  with the character of development located within the interior portions of city blocks. Uses are
  intended to be compatible with the existing scale, density and intensity of the neighborhood. The
  standards for the district are intended to provide for safe and comfortable places to live and play,
  promote sustainable and compatible development patterns and to preserve the existing character
  of the neighborhood. This is a medium density zoning district. Off site parking facilities in this
  district to supply required parking for new development may be approved as part of the
  conditional use process.
 Discussion:
 Located within the interior portion of a city block, the proposed development would bring new
 housing into an established neighborhood on underutilized parcels. The detached single-
 family nature of the development reflects the neighborhood's character, albeit at a moderate
 density. The requested modifications also help to fulfill the development goals set by the North
 Temple Boulevard Plan, as discussed in Key Considerations 1 and 4.
 Finding: ☒ Meets SR-3 Purpose Statement ☐ Does Not Meet SR-3 Purpose Statement
PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                           April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development           43
                                                  52
 A. Open Space And Natural Lands: Preserving, protecting or creating open space and natural
    lands:
    1. Inclusion of community gathering places or public recreational opportunities, such as new
        trails or trails that connect to existing or planned trail systems, playgrounds or other similar
        types of facilities.
    2. Preservation of critical lands, watershed areas, riparian corridors and/or the urban forest.
    3. Development of connected greenways and/or wildlife corridors.
    4. Daylighting of creeks/water bodies.
    5. Inclusion of local food production areas, such as community gardens.
    6. Clustering of development to preserve open spaces.
 Discussion: The applicant is not proposing to meet this objective. Only one objective must be met.
 B. Historic Preservation:
    1. Preservation, restoration, or adaptive reuse of buildings or structures that contribute to the
       character of the City either architecturally and/or historically, and that contribute to the
       general welfare of the residents of the City.
    2. Preservation of, or enhancement to, historically significant landscapes that contribute to
       the character of the City and contribute to the general welfare of the City's residents.
 Discussion: The applicant is not proposing to meet this objective. Only one objective must be met.
 C. Housing: Providing affordable housing or types of housing that helps achieve the City's
    housing goals and policies:
    1. At least twenty percent (20%) of the housing must be for those with incomes that are at or
       below eighty percent (80%) of the area median income.
    2. The proposal includes housing types that are not commonly found in the
       existing neighborhood but are of a scale that is typical to the neighborhood.
 Discussion:
 As discussed under Key Consideration 3, this request proposes detached single-family dwelling
 units but with a higher density than other single-family homes nearby. The project's location in the
 middle of the block helps mitigate potential adverse effects. Additionally, the site location is
 identified by the North Temple Boulevard Plan. These features make the proposal a distinctive yet
 harmonious moderate-density development, aligning with City goals to promote "missing middle"
 (medium-scale) development.
 Finding: ☒ Objective Satisfied           ☐ Objective Not Satisfied
 D. Mobility: Enhances accessibility and mobility:
   1. Creating new interior block walkway connections that connect through a block
      or improve connectivity to transit or the bicycle network.
   2. Improvements that encourage transportation options other than just the automobile.
 Discussion: The applicant is not proposing to meet this objective. Only one objective must be met.
 E. Sustainability: Creation of a project that achieves exceptional performance with regards to
    resource consumption and impact on natural systems:
   1. Energy Use And Generation: Design of the building, its systems, and/or site that allow for a
       significant reduction in energy usage as compared with other buildings of similar type
       and/or the generation of energy from an on-site renewable resource.
   2. Reuse Of Priority Site: Locate on a brownfield where soil or groundwater contamination has
       been identified, and where the local, State, or national authority (whichever has jurisdiction)
       requires its remediation. Perform remediation to the satisfaction of that authority.
 Discussion: The applicant is not proposing to meet this objective. Only one objective must be met.

PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                             April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development            44
                                                   53
 F.     Master Plan Implementation: A project that helps implement portions of an adopted
       Master Plan in instances where the Master Plan provides specific guidance on the character of
       the immediate vicinity of the proposal:
      1. A project that is consistent with the guidance of the Master Plan related to building scale,
         building orientation, site layout, or other similar character-defining features.
 Discussion:
 As discussed under Key Consideration 1 and Key Consideration 4, the proposed development fulfills
 policies within the North Temple Boulevard Master Plan. The proposal follows the plan’s guidance
 by concentrating infill development within the center of the blocks identified within the 800 West
 Station section of the plan.
 Finding: ☒ Objective Satisfied           ☐ Objective Not Satisfied
  B. Master Plan Compatibility: The proposed planned development is generally consistent
     with adopted policies set forth in the Citywide, community, and/or small area Master Plan that
     is applicable to the site where the planned development will be located.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 Key Consideration 1 of the staff report discussed master plan compatibility. The proposed
 development is appropriate for the SR-3 zoning district and does not contradict the applicable
 master plans for this neighborhood.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  C. Design And Compatibility: The proposed planned development is compatible with the area
     the planned development will be located and is designed to achieve a more enhanced product
     than would be achievable through strict application of land use regulations. In determining
     design and compatibility, the Planning Commission should consider:
  1. Whether the scale, mass, and intensity of the proposed planned development is compatible with
     the neighborhood where the planned development will be located and/or the policies stated in
     an applicable Master Plan related to building and site design;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 The proposal’s compatibility with adopted policies is discussed under Key Consideration 1.
 This proposal is for detached, single-family dwellings at a moderately dense scale. It manages
 to satisfy the Northwest Community Plan’s call for sustaining neighborhood character while
 introducing the moderate-density infill recommended by The North Temple Boulevard Plan,
 Plan Salt Lake, Housing SLC, and Thriving in Place. The proposed units, while simple in
 design, are intended to maintain the scale of buildings in the neighborhood. The proposal
 would be compatible with adjacent Planned Development projects, including Nielsen Estates
 and Hoyt Place Phase I.

 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  2. Whether the building orientation and building materials in the proposed planned development
     are compatible with the neighborhood where the planned development will be located and/or
     the policies stated in an applicable Master Plan related to building and site design;
 Finding: Complies With Conditions
 Discussion:
PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                          April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development            45
                                                   54
 As discussed under Key Consideration 3, the proposed orientation of Unit 201 does not adequately
 engage with Hoyt Place to create pedestrian interest. As a condition of approval, staff recommends
 installing a porch element around the door found on the North façade (identified as the “Left
 Elevation” in submitted plans).
 Condition(s): To create additional pedestrian interest along Hoyt Place, add an entry feature
 to the north door (found on the “Left Elevation”) of unit 201.
 3. Whether building setbacks along the perimeter of the development:
    a. Maintain the visual character of the neighborhood or the character described in the
       applicable Master Plan.
    b. Provide sufficient space for private amenities.
    c. Provide sufficient open space buffering between the proposed development and
       neighboring properties to minimize impacts related to privacy and noise.
    d. Provide adequate sight lines to streets, driveways and sidewalks.
    e. Provide sufficient space for maintenance.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
    a. The North Temple Boulevard Plan calls for moderate-density infill development within the
       interior of the subject site’s block. The proposed development carries out the policies
       established in that plan.
    b. The front porch of each unit provides adequate private space for occupants of each unit.
    c. The proposed units have been set back from existing residential property.
    d. The proposed access point from the private alley would be sufficiently clear to facilitate
       driver and pedestrian visibility. The proposed development does not appear to crowd any
       existing or proposed streets, driveways, or sidewalks.
    e. The proposed private alley would be roughly 21 feet wide, with enough space for two vehicles
       to navigate side-by-side and enough space for the occasional maintenance vehicle to park.
       The private alley also provides ample space for large fire trucks to reach all proposed units.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  4. Whether building facades offer ground floor transparency, access, and architectural detailing
     to facilitate pedestrian interest and interaction;
 Finding: Complies With Conditions
 Discussion:
 As discussed under Key Consideration 3, the proposed orientation of Unit 201 does not adequately
 engage with Hoyt Place to create pedestrian interest. As a condition of approval, staff recommends
 installing a porch element around the door found on the North façade (identified as the “Left
 Elevation” in submitted plans).
 Condition(s): To create additional pedestrian interest along Hoyt Place, add an entry feature
 to the north door (found on the “Left Elevation”) of unit 201.
  5. Whether lighting is designed for safety and visual interest while minimizing impacts on
     surrounding property;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 This is a low-scale residential development where significant lighting is not expected. Lighting at
 garages and doorways of the units will provide sufficient lighting for development at this scale.


PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                          April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development          46
                                                 55
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  6. Whether dumpsters, loading docks and/or service areas are appropriately screened;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 All proposed uses are detached single-family dwellings; each unit will have private garbage cans.
 This development does not propose dumpsters, loading docks, or service areas.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  7. Whether parking areas are appropriately buffered from adjacent uses.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 Parking on the site will be similar in character to surrounding properties (within garages and on
 driveways), and negative impacts are expected to be minimal.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  D. Landscaping: The proposed planned development preserves, maintains or provides native
     landscaping where appropriate. In determining the landscaping for the proposed planned
     development, the Planning Commission should consider:
  1. Whether mature native trees located along the periphery of the property and along the street
     are preserved and maintained;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 No mature native trees were identified on the site. The Urban Forestry Division examines
 development projects closely during building permit review. If they find a tree on the site that
 meets its definition of a specimen tree, removal would require adherence to the Private Lands
 Tree Preservation requirements in section 21.48.135 of the zoning ordinance.

 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  2. Whether existing landscaping that provides additional buffering to the abutting properties is
     maintained and preserved;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 No existing landscaping buffers the site from adjacent properties to the north and west. The
 proposed units are set back from all property lines abutting property outside the project area,
 reducing potential impacts.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  3. Whether proposed landscaping is designed to lessen potential impacts created by the proposed
     planned development;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:



PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                         April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development         47
                                                56
 The proposed development would be single-family in character, not wildly different from the
 neighborhood’s existing character. Staff finds that landscaping required by zoning regulations will
 be sufficient in lessening any potential impacts from the proposal.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  4. Whether proposed landscaping is appropriate for the scale of the development.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 The proposed landscaping includes a significant number of large shrubs, ornamental grasses, and
 perennials. The proposed plant material's scale and variety will match the development's moderate-
 density residential scale.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  E. Mobility: The proposed planned development supports Citywide transportation goals and
     promotes safe and efficient circulation within the site and surrounding neighborhood. In
     determining mobility, the Planning Commission should consider:
  1. Whether drive access to local streets will negatively impact the safety, purpose and character of
     the street;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 Drive access to local streets will not impact the safety, purpose, or character of the street.
 Vehicles using the private alley can enter and exit facing forward, as they can turn around using
 individual driveways. The traffic from the five units is not anticipated to disrupt the character
 900 West.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  2. Whether the site design considers safe circulation for a range of transportation options
     including:
     a. Safe and accommodating pedestrian environment and pedestrian oriented design;
     b. Bicycle facilities and connections where appropriate, and orientation to transit where
         available; and
     c. Minimizing conflicts between different transportation modes;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 The development will include a sidewalk adjacent to the driveway to accommodate pedestrians and
 minimize conflicts between vehicles and pedestrians.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  3. Whether the site design of the proposed development promotes or enables access to adjacent
     uses and amenities;
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 All proposed units would have access to nearby uses and amenities via Hoyt Place’s connection to
 900 West.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                           April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development           48
                                                  57
  4. Whether the proposed design provides adequate emergency vehicle access; and
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 The proposal must comply with all relevant fire code regulations, including emergency vehicle
 access. The applicant has worked closely with fire reviewers to ensure the private streets and alleys
 meet all fire access road requirements.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  5. Whether loading access and service areas are adequate for the site and minimize impacts to
     the surrounding area and public rights-of-way.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 The proposed development consists of single-family dwellings where dedicated “loading or
 “service” areas are not typically necessary. However, the proposed private alley would provide
 ample space for the occasional loading and unloading of deliveries or future residents’ personal
 property.

 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  F. Existing Site Features: The proposed planned development preserves natural and built
     features that significantly contribute to the character of the neighborhood and/or environment.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 The subject site has been vacant since at least 2007. No significant features (natural or built)
 are present on the site.

 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.
  G. Utilities: Existing and/or planned utilities will adequately serve the development and not have
     a detrimental effect on the surrounding area.
 Finding: Complies
 Discussion:
 The applicant recently completed the development of new utilities along Hoyt Place. A
 preliminary plat, including utility details, must be approved before a building permit for the
 proposal can be issued.
 Condition(s): Staff does not recommend any conditions related to this standard.




PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                           April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development           49
                                                  58
ATTACHMENT F: Public Process & Comments
Public Notice, Meetings, Comments
The following is a list of all public meetings and other public input opportunities related to the proposed
project since the proposed development was submitted to the City.
• December 22, 2023 – Planning staff sent the 45-day required notice for recognized
    community organizations to the chairs of the Fairpark Community Council.
• December 22, 2023 – Property owners and residents within 300 feet of the development were
    provided early notification of the proposal.
• December 22, 2023 – Signs with information about the proposal were posted on the site.
Notice of the public hearing for the proposal included:
• March 30, 2024
   o Public hearing notice sign posted on the property
• March 28, 2024
   o Public hearing notice mailed
   o Public notice posted on City and State websites and Planning Division list serve
Public Input:
Planning staff did not receive any comments regarding this request before report publication.




PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                              April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development             50
                                                    59
ATTACHMENT G: Department Review &
              Comments
The following departments reviewed this proposal.                   Any requirement identified by a City
Department is required to be complied with.
Engineering (Scott Weiler):
No comments or objections

Fire (Seth Hutchinson):
Dead-end fire apparatus access roads in excess of 150 feet in length shall be provided with an approved area
for turning around fire apparatus. FD turnarounds must meet SLC Fire Department requirements, and
requirements in Appendix D Section D103.4 and Table D103.4 in the IFC. SLC Fire Department requires
that hammer head turnarounds measure 160 feet (80-foot Y) with a minimum of 26 foot wide roadway.
Approved fire apparatus access roads shall be provided for every facility, building or portion of a building
hereafter constructed or moved into or within the jurisdiction. The fire apparatus access road shall comply
with the requirements of IFC section 503 and shall extend to within 150 feet of all portions of the facility
and all portions of the exterior walls of the first story of the building as measured by an approved route
around the exterior of the building or facility. Fire apparatus access roads shall have an unobstructed width
of not less than 20 feet, exclusive of shoulders, and an unobstructed vertical clearance of not less than 13
feet 6 inches. Fire apparatus access roads shall not be obstructed in any manner, including the parking of
vehicles, or medians.
If private alley's are to be utilized, they must meet the requirements for FD access roads as described in
Section 503 and Appendix D in the IFC. These must be able to support the largest fire truck that SLC Fire
Department has, and be surfaced and maintained to provide all-weather driving capabilities and have
approved FD turnarounds where measured over 150 feet, as described above.

Transportation (Jena Carver):
No comments received

Public Utilities (Andrea Osojnak):
Comments have been provided to assist in the future development of the property. The following comments are
provided for information only and do not provide official project review or approval. Comments are provided
to assist in design and development by providing guidance for project requirements.
•   Public Utility permit, connection, survey, and inspection fees will apply.
•   All utility design and construction must comply with APWA Standards and SLCPU Standard Practices.
•   All utilities must meet horizontal and vertical clearance requirements. Water and sewer lines require 10 ft
    minimum horizontal separation and 18” minimum vertical separation. Sewer must maintain 5 ft minimum
    horizontal separation and 12” vertical separation from any non-water utilities. Water must maintain 3 ft
    minimum horizontal separation and 12” vertical separation from any non-sewer utilities.
•   Contact SLCPU Street Light Program Manager, Dave Pearson (801-483-6738), for information regarding
    streetlights.
•   CC&R’s must address utility service ownership and maintenance responsibility from the public main to each
    individual unit.
•   Site utility and grading plans will be required for building permit review. Site utility plans should include all
    existing and proposed utilities, including water, irrigation, fire, sewer, stormwater, street lighting, power,
    gas, and communications. Grading plans should include arrows directing stormwater away from
    neighboring property. Please refer to APWA, SLCDPU Standard Practices, and the SLC Design Process
    Guide for utility design requirements. Other plans such as erosion control plans and plumbing plans may
    also be required, depending on the scope of work. Submit supporting documents and calculations along
    with the plans.
•   Applicant must provide fire flow, culinary water, and sewer demand calculations to SLCDPU for review. The
    public sewer and water system will be modeled with these demands. If the demand is not adequately
    delivered or if one or more reaches of the sewer system reach capacity as a result of the development, a
PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                                       April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development                  51
                                                         60
    water/sewer main upsizing will be required at the property owner’s expense. Required improvements on
    the public water and sewer system will be determined by the Development Review Engineer and may be
    downstream of the project.
•   Only one culinary water meter will be allowed for this entire development. A master meter will be required.
•   If a hydrant is required on property upsizing of the water main will be required. No hydrants are allowed on
    6” mains.
•   A detector check meter is required if any private fire hydrants are proposed.
•   A minimum of one sewer lateral is required per building. Shared sewer laterals require a Request for
    Variance.
•   Private sewer services larger than 6" require a Request for Variance.
•   Site stormwater must be collected on site and routed to the public storm drain system. Stormwater cannot
    discharge across property lines or public sidewalks.
•   As this project disturbance is over one acre, stormwater treatment is required prior to discharge to the
    public storm drain. Utilize stormwater Best Management Practices (BMP's) to remove solids and oils. Green
    Infrastructure should be used whenever possible. Green Infrastructure and LID treatment of stormwater is
    a design requirement and required by the Salt Lake City UPDES permit for Municipal Separate Storm
    Sewer System (MS4). The applicant will need to provide options for stormwater treatment and retention for
    the 80th percentile storm. If additional property is not available, there are other options such as green roof
    or other BMP's. Lack of room or cost is generally not an exception for this requirement. If green
    infrastructure is not used, then applicant must provide documentation of what green infrastructure
    measures were considered and why these were not deemed feasible. Please verify that plans include
    appropriate treatment measures. Please visit the following websites for guidance with Low Impact
    Development: https://deq.utah.gov/water-quality/low-impact-
    development?form=MY01SV&OCID=MY01SV and https://documents.deq.utah.gov/water-
    quality/stormwater/updes/DWQ-2019-000161.pdf?form=MY01SV&OCID=MY01SV.
•   Stormwater detention is required for this project. The allowable release rate is 0.2 cfs per acre. Detention
    must be sized using the 100-year 3-hour design storm using the farmer Fletcher rainfall distribution.
    Provide a complete Technical Drainage Study including all calculations, figures, model output, certification,
    summary, and discussion.
•   Projects larger than one acre require that a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP) and Technical
    Drainage Study are submitted for review

Urban Forestry (Rick Nelson)
Urban Forestry has no concern with this plan.

Building (William Warlick)
No comments.




PLNPCM2023-00900                                                                                     April 10, 2024
Hoyt Place Phase II Planned Development                52
                                                       61
