 
1 
 
SALT LAKE COUNTY ORDINANCE 
 
ORDINANCE NO. __________________    ________________________, 2022 
 
AN ORDINANCE OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY COUNCIL ENACTING 
CHAPTER 19.73 OF THE SALT LAKE COUNTY CODE ENTITLED FLOOD 
DAMAGE PREVENTION TO MAKE REGULATIONS IN THE 
UNINCORPORATED COUNTY OUTSIDE OF A MIGRATORY BIRD 
PRODUCTION AREA CONSISTENT WITH FEMA REGULATIONS; 
AMENDING SECTION 19.74.040 ENTITLED AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD 
HAZARD TO CLARIFY THAT CHAPTER 19.74 IS ONLY APPLICABLE TO 
MIGRATORY BIRD PRODUCTION AREAS; AND ENACTING RELATED 
REGULATIONS.   
 
The County Legislative Body of Salt Lake County ordains as follows: 
SECTION I. The public hearing and accompany notice required by Utah Code Section 
17-27a-205 having taken place, Chapter 19.73 is hereby enacted and Section 19.74.040 is hereby 
amended as provided herein.  The amendments made here are designated by underlining the new 
substituted words.  Words being deleted are designated by brackets and interlineations. 
SECTION II.  Chapter 19. 73 of the Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances is enacted as 
follows in order to  make regulations in the unincorporated county outside of a migratory bird 
production area consistent with FEMA regulations. 
Chapter 19.73 - FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION ORDINANCE 
19.73.010 - Election to Participate in the National Flood Insurance Program. 
The National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) is a voluntary program administered by 
FEMA, a component of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security, pursuant to the National 
Flood Insurance Act of 1968 (P.L. 90-488, as amended). Salt Lake County elects to join the 
program, participate, and enforce this Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance and the requirements 
and regulations of the NFIP. The NFIP, established in the aforesaid act, provides that areas of the 
Unincorporated areas of Salt Lake County having a special flood hazard be identified by FEMA, 
and that floodplain management measures be applied in such flood hazard areas. Furthermore, 
Salt Lake County may elect to administer the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance to areas not 
identified as Special Flood Hazard Areas (SFHAs) by FEMA on the County’s effective Flood 
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM), if the County has documentation to support that there is an inherent 
 
2 
 
risk of flooding in such areas and the Council amends this chapter and adopts an updated map 
with these other areas.  This chapter only applies to unincorporated areas of Salt Lake County 
that are not within a migratory bird production area as defined by State statute. 
19.73.020 - Findings.  
1. The flood hazard areas of unincorporated Salt Lake County are subject to periodic 
inundation which results in possible loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, 
disruption of commerce and governmental services, and extraordinary public expenditures 
for flood protection and relief, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety, and 
general welfare. 
2. These flood losses are created by the cumulative effect of obstructions in floodplains that 
cause an increase in flood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy of flood hazard 
areas by us es vulnerable to floods and hazardous to other lands because they are 
inadequately elevated, flood-proofed, or otherwise protected from flood damage. 
19.73.030 - Statement of Purpose.  
It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare and 
to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions in specific areas by provisions 
designed to: 
1. Protect human life and health; 
2. Minimize expenditure of public money for costly flood-control projects; 
3. Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding that are 
generally undertaken at the expense of the general public; 
4. Minimize prolonged business interruptions; 
5. Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities, such as gas, water and sewer 
mains, electric and telephone lines, and streets and bridges located in floodplains. 
6. Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of 
flood-prone areas in such a manner as to minimize blight to future flood-prone areas; 
7. Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in a flood area and can make 
their decisions based on full information. 
19.73.040 - Methods of Reducing Flood Losses.  
In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter uses the following methods: 
1. Restrict or prohibit uses that are dangerous to health, safety or property in times of 
flood, or cause excessive increases in flood heights or velocities; 
 
3 
 
2. Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be 
protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction; 
3. Control the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels, and natural protective 
barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of flood waters; 
4. Control filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood 
damage; 
5. Prevent or regulate the construction of flood barriers which will unnaturally divert 
floodwaters or which may increase flood hazards to other lands. 
 
19.73.050 – Definitions 
 
The following definitions shall apply to terms used in this chapter, including maps incorporated 
herein.  Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter, including maps 
incorporated herein, shall be interpreted to give them the meaning they have in common usage 
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application. 
 
100-Year Flood means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a 1-percent chance of being 
equaled or exceeded during any given year (1-percent-annual-chance flood). The terms “100-
hundred-year flood” and “1-percent-annual-chance flood” are synonymous. The term does not 
imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every 100 hundred years. Mandatory flood 
insurance requirements may apply. 
 
100-Year Floodplain means the area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the 
occurrence of a 1-percent-annual-chance flood. 
 
500-Year Flood means a flood having a recurrence interval that has a 0.2-percent chance of 
being equaled or exceeded during any given year (0.2-percent-annual-chance flood). The term 
does not imply that the flood will necessarily happen once every 500 years and mandatory flood 
insurance requirement generally does not apply. 
 
500-Year Floodplain means the area of land susceptible to being inundated due to the 
occurrence of a 0.2-percent-annual-chance flood. 
 
Accessory Structure is a structure that is on the same parcel of property as a principal structure. 
Its use is incidental to the use of the principal structure the ownership of the accessory structure 
is the same owner as of the principal structure. An accessory structure is a non-residential 
structure of low value that is used solely for the parking of vehicles and storage of tools, 
materials, or equipment. No human habitation is allowed within an accessory structure. 
 
Addition is any improvement that expands the enclosed footprint or increases the square footage 
of an existing structure. This includes lateral additions added to the side, front, or rear of a 
structure; vertical additions added on top of a structure; and enclosures added underneath a 
structure. 
 
 
4 
 
Alluvial Fan Flooding means flooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or similar 
landform that originates at the apex. It is characterized by high-velocity flows; active processes 
of erosion, sediment transport, and deposition; and unpredictable flow paths. 
 
Apex means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the flow path of the 
major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan flooding can occur. 
 
Appurtenant Structure—see Accessory Structure.  
 
Area of Future-Conditions Flood Hazard means the land area that would be inundated by the 1-
percent-annual-chance (100-year) flood, based on future-conditions hydrology. 
 
Area of Shallow Flooding means a designated AO, AH, AR/AO, or AR/AH zone on the 
County’s unincorporated community Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a 1 percent or 
greater annual chance of flooding to an average depth of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined 
channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow may 
be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow. 
 
Area of Special Flood-Related Erosion Hazard is the land within the County that is most likely 
to be subject to severe flood-related erosion losses. The area may be designated as Zone E on the 
Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After the detailed evaluation of the special flood-related 
erosion hazard area, in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone E may be further refined. 
 
Base Flood means the flood having a 1-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in any 
given year. 
 
Base Flood Elevation (BFE) is the water surface elevation of the 1-percent-annual-chance flood 
event.  It is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the waters of the 
base flood at pertinent points in the floodplains of coastal and riverine areas. It is also the 
elevation shown on the FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance Study (FIS) for 
Zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface elevation 
resulting from the flood that has a 1-percent chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any 
given year.  
 
Basement means any area of the building having its floor subgrade (below ground level) on all 
sides. A walkout basement that does not require a step up to grade is not considered a basement. 
 
Best Available Data is existing flood hazard information reflected on an effective FIRM, FBFM, 
and/or within an FIS report; or from another source. Other sources may include, but are not 
limited to, state, other federal agencies, or local studies.  To the extent Best Available Data is 
used as a standard for development, the County Council must approve such standard in 
accordance with State law. 
 
Breakaway Wall means a wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is 
intended through its design and construction to collapse under specific lateral loading forces, 
without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting foundation system. 
 
5 
 
Any walls below the lowest floor in a building in a V or VE Zone should give way under wind 
and water loads without causing collapse, displacement, or other damage to the elevated portion 
of the building of the supporting pilings or columns. Breakaway walls apply only to V or VE 
Zones. 
 
Building—see Structure. 
 
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR) is the codification of the general and permanent rules 
published in the Federal Register by the executive departments and agencies of the Federal 
Government.  
 
Conditional Letter of Map Revision (CLOMR) is FEMA's comment on a proposed project that 
would, upon construction, affect the hydrologic and/or hydraulic characteristics of a flooding 
source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory floodway, the effective 
BFEs, and/or the SFHA. The letter does not revise an effective map; it indicates whether the 
project, if built as proposed, would be recognized by FEMA. 
 
Crawlspace means an under-floor space that has its interior floor area (finished or not) no more 
than 4 feet from the bottom floor joist the next higher floor elevation, designed with proper 
openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures of flood water, and is not used for habitation. 
Reference: 19.74.070(H) 
 
Deed Restriction refers to a clause in a deed that limits the future use of the property in some 
respect.  
Development means any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including 
but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, 
demolition, excavation or drilling operations, or storage either temporary or permanent of 
equipment or materials. 
 
Elevated Building is a non-basement building built, in the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, 
A, A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, to have the top of the elevated floor above the ground 
level by means of pilings, columns (post and piers), or shear walls parallel to the flow of the 
water and adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a 
flood of up to the magnitude of the base flood. In the case of a building in Zone A1-30, AE, A, 
A99, AR, AO, AH, B, C, X and D, an “elevated building” also includes a building elevated by 
means of fill or solid foundation perimeter walls with openings sufficient to facilitate the 
unimpeded movement of flood waters.  
 
Enclosure refers to an enclosed walled-in area below the lowest floor of an elevated building.  
 
Erosion means the process of the gradual wearing away of land masses by wind, water, or other 
natural agents.  
 
Existing Construction refers to structures for which the “start of construction” commenced 
before the effective date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs effective before that 
date. It may also be referred to as Existing Structures. 
 
6 
 
 
Existing Manufactured Home Park means a manufactured home park or subdivision for which 
the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured homes are to be 
affixed (including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and 
either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is completed before the effective date of 
the floodplain management regulations adopted by the County. 
 
Existing Structures—see Existing Construction. 
 
Expansion to an Existing Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means the preparation of 
additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufacturing 
homes are to be affixed (including the installation of utilities, the construction of streets, and 
either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads). 
 
FEMA means the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
 
FHBM means Flood Hazard Boundary Map. 
 
Fill refers to the placement of materials, such as dirt, sand, or rock to elevate a structure, 
property, or portion of a property above the natural elevation of the site, regardless of where the 
material was obtained from. The common practice of removing unsuitable material and replacing 
with engineered material is not considered fill if the elevations are returned to the existing 
conditions. Any fill placed or used prior to the area being mapped as a flood hazard area is not 
deemed as fill. 
 
Flood or Flooding means: 
A general and temporary condition of partial or complete inundation of normally dry land areas 
from: 
1. The overflow of inland or tidal waters. 
2. The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source. 
3. Mudslides (i.e., mudflows) that are proximately caused by flooding as defined in 
element 2 of this Definition and are akin to a river of liquid and flowing mud on 
the surfaces of normally dry land areas, as when earth is carried by a current of 
water and deposited along the path of the current. 
4. The collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or other body of 
water as a result of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water 
exceeding anticipated cyclical levels or suddenly caused by an unusually high 
water level in a natural body of water, accompanied by a severe storm, or by an 
unanticipated force of nature, such as flash flood or an abnormal tidal surge, or by 
some similarly unusual and unforeseeable event which results in flooding as 
defined in element 1 of this Definition. 
 
 
Flood Insurance Manual is the document FEMA produces twice a year and is used to write 
flood insurance policies underwritten by the NFIP. The document contains definitions, policy 
rates, coverage and exclusions, application, and insurance policy forms. 
 
7 
 
 
Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) means an official community map of the unincorporated 
County, on which the Administrator has delineated both the SFHAs and the risk premium zones 
applicable to the County. The FIRMs effective November 19th, 2021 (or most recent adopted) 
shall be used by Salt Lake County. 
 
Flood Insurance Study (FIS) or Flood elevation study means an examination, evaluation, and 
determination of flood hazards and, if appropriate, corresponding water surface elevations, or an 
examination, evaluation and determination of mudslide (i.e., mudflow) and/or flood-related 
erosion hazards. 
 
Floodplain Development Permit is the County issued permit or document that is used for any 
development that occurs within an SFHA identified by FEMA or the County. It is used to 
address the proposed development to ensure compliance with this chapter.  
 
Floodplain or Flood-Prone Area means any land area susceptible to being inundated by water 
from any source whether or not identified by FEMA (see definition of Flooding). 
 
Floodplain Management means the operation of an overall program of corrective and preventive 
measures for reducing flood damage, including but not limited to emergency preparedness plans, 
flood control works, mitigation plans, and floodplain management regulations. 
 
Floodplain Management Regulations means zoning ordinances, subdivision regulations, 
building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances (such as a floodplain ordinance, 
grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and other applications of police power. The 
term describes such state or local regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide 
standards for flood damage prevention and reduction.   
 
Flood Opening refers to an opening in the wall of an enclosed structure that allows floodwaters 
to automatically enter and exit the enclosure. Refer to FEMA Technical Bulletin 1. 
 
Flood Protection System means those physical structural works for which funds have been 
authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed specifically to modify 
flooding in order to reduce the extent of the area within the County subject to an SFHA and to 
reduce the depths of associated flooding.  Such a system typically includes hurricane tidal 
barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes.  These specialized, flood modifying works are those 
constructed in conformance with sound engineering standards. FEMA only accredits levees, both 
private and public, that have been certified by a professional engineer or firm in which the 
certification shows that the levee have met and continue to meet the minimum regulatory 
standards cited in Title 44, Chapter 1, Section 65.10 of the Code of Federal Regulations (44 CFR 
65.10). 
 
Flood proofing means any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes, or 
adjustments to structures that reduce or eliminate flood damage to real estate or improved real 
property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents. Floodproofing can either be 
accomplished in the form of dry floodproofing in which the structure is watertight below the 
 
8 
 
levels that need flood protection, or wet floodproofing in permanent or contingent measures 
applied to a structure that prevent or provide resistance to damage from flooding, while allowing 
floodwaters to enter the structure or area. 
 
Floodway—(Regulatory Floodway) - means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the 
adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without 
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a designated height. 
 
Floodway encroachment lines mean the lines marking the limits of floodways on federal, state, 
and local floodplain maps. 
 
Freeboard means a factor of safety usually expressed in feet above a flood level for purposes of 
floodplain management. “Freeboard” tends to compensate for the many unknown factors that 
could contribute to flood heights greater than the height calculated for a selected size flood and 
floodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings, and the hydrological effect of 
urbanization of the watershed. 
 
Functionally Dependent Use means a development that cannot perform its intended purpose 
unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes docking 
facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or passengers, 
and ship building and repair facilities. It does not include long-term storage or related 
manufacturing facilities. 
 
Highest Adjacent Grade (HAG) means the highest natural elevation of the ground surface prior 
to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. In AO Zones, the highest adjacent grade 
is utilized by comparing the lowest floor elevation to that of the highest adjacent grade and the 
depth of the AO Zone. Reference: 19.74.060 L: Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding 
(AO/AH Zones). 
 
Historic Structure means any structure that is: 
1. Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by the 
Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as 
meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register; 
2. Certified or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing to 
the historical significance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily 
determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district; 
3. Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic reservation 
programs that have been approved by the Secretary of the Interior; or 
4. Individually listed on a local inventory of historic places in communities with historic 
preservation programs that have been certified either: 
a. By an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior, or 
b. Directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs. 
 
Letter of Map Amendment (LOMA) means an official amendment, by letter, to an effective 
FIRM. A LOMA establishes a property’s location in relation to the SFHA. It is usually issued 
 
9 
 
because a property or structure has been inadvertently mapped as being in the floodplain, when 
the property or structure is actually on natural high ground above the BFE. 
 
Letter of Map Revision (LOMR) means FEMA's modification or revision to an entire or portion 
of the effective FIRM, or Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both. LOMRs are generally 
based on the implementation of physical measures that affect the hydrologic or hydraulic 
characteristics of a flooding source and thus result in the modification of the existing regulatory 
floodway, the effective BFEs, or the SFHA.  
 
Letter of Map Revision Based on Fill (LOMR-F) means FEMA’s amendment, by letter, to an 
effective FIRM where fill was brought in or used to elevate a property, portion of property or 
structure above the BFE. 
 
Levee means a man-made structure usually an earthen embankment, designed and constructed in 
accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert the flow of water so as 
to provide protection from temporary flooding. 
 
Levee System means a flood protection system that consists of a levee, or levees, and associated 
structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and operated in 
accordance with sound engineering practices. 
 
Lowest Adjacent Grade (LAG) means the lowest natural elevation of the ground surface prior to 
construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. For an existing structure, it means the 
lowest point where the structure and ground touch, including but not limited to attached garages, 
decks, stairs, and basement windows. 
 
Lowest Floor means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An 
unfinished or flood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or 
storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a building's lowest floor; 
provided, that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the 
applicable non-elevation design requirements of Section 60.3. 
 
Manufactured Home means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on 
a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when 
attached to the required utilities. The term “manufactured home” does not include a “recreational 
vehicle”; however, a manufactured home may be used for both residential and non-residential 
use. 
 
Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land 
divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale. 
 
Map means the FHBM or the FIRM for the County issued by FEMA. 
 
Mean Sea Level means, for purposes of the NFIP, the National Geodetic Vertical Datum 
(NGVD) of 1929, North American Vertical Datum (NAVD) of 1988, or other datum, to which 
BFEs shown on the unincorporated community FIRM are referenced. 
 
10 
 
 
Mixed Use Structures are structures with both a business and a residential component. 
 
New Construction means structures for which the start of construction commenced on or after 
the effective date of a floodplain management regulation adopted by the County and includes any 
subsequent improvements to such structures. For the purposes of determining insurance rates, 
structures for which the “start of construction” commenced on or after the effective date of an 
initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and includes any subsequent 
improvements to such structures.  
 
New Manufactured Home Park or Subdivision means a manufactured home park or subdivision 
for which the start of construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the manufactured 
homes are to be affixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities, the construction of 
streets, and either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is commenced on or after the 
effective date of floodplain management regulations adopted by the County. 
 
No-Rise Certifications are formal certifications signed and stamped by a professional engineer 
licensed to practice in the state, demonstrating through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses 
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that a proposed development will 
not result in any increase in flood levels within the community during the occurrence of a base 
flood event. 
 
Physical Map Revision (PMR) is FEMA’s action whereby one or more map panels are 
physically revised and republished.  
 
Recreational Vehicle means a vehicle which is: 
(a) Built on a single chassis; 
(b) 400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projection; 
(c) Designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light duty truck; and 
(d) Designed primarily, not for use as a permanent dwelling but, as temporary living quarters for 
recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use. 
 
Riverine means relating to, formed by, or resembling a river (including tributaries), stream, 
brook, creek, etcetera, which can be intermittent or perennial.  
 
Section 1316 refers to the section of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, 
which provides for the denial of flood insurance coverage for any property that the Administrator 
finds has been declared by a duly constituted State or local authority to be in violation of State or 
local floodplain management regulations. Section 1316 is issued for a property, not a property 
owner, and remains with the property even after a change of ownership. 
 
Special Flood Hazard Area is the land in the floodplain within the County subject to a 1 percent 
or greater chance of flooding in any given year. The area may be designated as Zone A on the 
FHBM. After detailed ratemaking has been completed in preparation for publication of the 
FIRM, Zone A usually is refined into Zones A, AO, AH, A1-30, AE, A99, AR, AR/A1-30, 
AR/AE, AR/AO, AR/AH, AR/A, or V1-30, VE, or V. 
 
11 
 
 
Start of Construction (for other than new construction or substantial improvements under the 
Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)) includes substantial improvement, and means 
the date the building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, 
reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of 
the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a 
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation of piles, the 
construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of excavation; or the placement of a 
manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent construction does not include land preparation, 
such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or 
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations or the 
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory 
buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main 
structure. For a substantial improvement, the actual start of construction means the first alteration 
of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that alteration 
affects the external dimensions of the building. 
 
Structure means, for floodplain management purposes, a walled and roofed building, culvert, 
bridge, dam, or a gas or liquid storage tank that is principally above ground, as well as a 
manufactured home.  
 
Structure, for insurance purposes, means: 
(1) A building with two or more outside rigid walls and a fully secured roof, which is affixed to a 
permanent site; 
(2) A manufactured home; or 
(3) A travel trailer without wheels built on a chassis and affixed to a permanent foundation, that 
is regulated under the County's floodplain management and building ordinances or laws. 
 
For insurance purposes, “structure” does not mean a recreational vehicle or a park trailer or other 
similar vehicle, except as described in paragraph (3) of this definition, or a gas or liquid storage 
tank. 
 
Substantial Damage has the meaning outlined in section 19.74.070(B). 
 
Substantial Improvement has the meaning outlined in section 19.74.070(C)  
 
Variance means a grant of relief by the County from the terms of a floodplain management 
regulation. Reference: 19.74.060(E) Variance Procedures 
 
Violation means the failure of a structure or other development to be fully compliant with the 
County's floodplain management regulations. A structure or other development without the 
elevation certificate, other certifications, or other evidence of compliance required in Sections 44 
CFR 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until 
such time as that documentation is provided. 
 
 
12 
 
Water surface elevation means the height, in relation to the North American Vertical Datum 
(NAVD) of 1988, (or other datum, where specified) of floods of various magnitudes and 
frequencies, such as the 1-percent-annual-chance flood event, in the floodplains of coastal or 
riverine areas. 
 
Watercourse means the channel and banks of an identifiable water in a creek, brook, stream, 
river, ditch or other similar feature.  
 
19.73.050 - General Provisions. 
 
A. Lands to Which This Chapter Applies 
 
The chapter shall apply to all special flood hazard areas identified by FEMA within the 
unincorporated Salt Lake County.  
 
 
B. Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard Areas 
 
The special flood hazard areas identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood Insurance Study for Salt Lake 
County and Incorporated Communities," dated November 19, 2021, with accompanying 
FIRMs, and any revisions thereto are hereby automatically adopted by reference and 
declared to be a part of this chapter. 
 
C. Establishment of Development Permit 
 
A Floodplain Development Permit shall be required to ensure conformance with the 
provisions of this chapter.  Pursuant to the International Building Code, which is 
incorporated into the Salt Lake County Code by section 15.08.010, a building permit is 
required for all proposed construction or other development in the unincorporated county, 
including the placement of manufactured homes, so that the County may determine 
whether such construction or other development is proposed within flood-prone areas. 
 
D. Fees 
 
Standard fees may be charged for applications under these provisions pursuant to the 
process outlined in Salt Lake County Code section 3.42.040, which may include fees for 
engineering reviews.  
 
E. Abrogation and Greater Restrictions 
 
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, 
covenants, or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and another ordinance, 
easement, covenant, or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes the more 
stringent restrictions shall prevail. 
 
 
13 
 
F. Interpretation 
 
In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall be: 
1. Considered as minimum requirements; 
2. Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under state statutes. 
 
G. Warning and Disclaimer of Liability 
 
The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for 
regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. On rare 
occasions, greater floods can and will occur and flood heights may be increased by 
human-made or natural causes. 
 
This chapter does not imply that land outside the special flood hazard areas or uses 
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter 
shall not create liability on the part of the County or any official or employee thereof for 
any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision 
lawfully made thereunder. 
 
H. Severability 
 
If any section, provision, or portion of this chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid 
by a court, the remainder of the chapter shall not be affected. 
 
I. Compliance 
 
No structures or developments including buildings, recreation vehicles, or manufactured 
homes or land shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use changed without full 
compliance with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Nothing 
herein shall prevent Salt Lake County from taking such lawful action as is necessary to 
prevent or remedy any violations.  Violations shall be enforced pursuant to Chapter 19.94 
of this Title. 
 
J. Stop Work Order 
 
1. Authority. Whenever the floodplain administrator or other designated County official 
discovers any work or activity regulated by this chapter being performed in a manner 
contrary to the provision of this chapter, the floodplain administrator is authorized to 
issue a stop work order. 
 
2. Issuance. The stop work order shall be in writing and shall be given to the owner of 
the property involved, or to the owner’s agent, or to the person doing the work. Upon 
issuance of a stop work order, the cited work shall immediately cease. The stop work 
order shall state the reason for the order, and the conditions under which the cited 
work will be permitted to resume. 
 
 
14 
 
3. Unlawful continuance. Any person who shall continue any work after having been 
served with a stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform 
to remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be subject to penalties as prescribed 
by  Chapter 19.94.  All other violations of this chapter shall be subject to the penalties 
and processes outlined in Chapter 19.94. 
 
19.73.060 Administration 
 
A. Designation of the Floodplain Administrator 
 
The Director of Planning and Development Services or their Designee is hereby 
appointed the Floodplain Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of 
this chapter and other appropriate sections of the NFIP Regulations and 44 CFR 
pertaining to floodplain management.  The Floodplain Administrator shall coordinate 
with and receive direction from the Mayor or Mayor’s designee when interpreting or 
enforcing this chapter or when considering any variances from this chapter.  On all other 
matters arising under this chapter, the Floodplain Administrator is subject to the direction 
of the Mayor or Mayor’s designee at the Mayor/designee’s discretion. 
 
B. Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator or Designee 
 
Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator or Designee shall include, but 
not be limited to, the following: 
 
1. Uphold the goals of the County and the NFIP to reduce risk when possible and 
increase the County’s resistance to future disasters. 
 
2. Maintain and hold open for public inspection maps that identify and locate the 
boundaries of the SFHAs to which this chapter applies, including, but not limited 
to, the FIRM.   
 
3. Review development proposals to determine whether a proposed building site, 
including sites designed for the placement of manufactured homes, will be 
reasonably safe from flooding.  
 
4. Review, approve, or deny all applications for Floodplain Development Permits 
required by adoption of this chapter.  
 
5. Ensure that all necessary permits have been obtained from federal, state, or local 
governmental agencies (including from Salt Lake County Flood Control pursuant 
to Salt Lake County Code Title 17, and approvals under Section 404 of the 
Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33 U.S.C. 1334 and 
the Endangered Species Act of 1973) from which prior approval is required.  
 
6. Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of 
any watercourse is maintained.  
 
15 
 
 
7. Determine the Base Flood Elevation when the FIRM does not do so. 
 
8. Notify, in riverine situations, Salt Lake County Flood Control (pursuant to Salt 
Lake County Code Title 17), adjacent communities, and the State Coordinating 
Agency which is State of Utah Engineers Stream Alteration office, prior to any 
alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification 
to FEMA.  
 
9. Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the 
special flood hazard areas (for example, where there appears to be a conflict 
between a mapped boundary and actual field conditions), the Floodplain 
Administrator shall make the necessary interpretation.  
 
10. When BFE data has not been provided by FEMA, the Floodplain Administrator 
shall obtain, review, and reasonably utilize any BFE data and floodway data 
available from a federal, state, or other source including data provided by the 
applicant, in order to administer the provisions of this chapter. 
 
11. When a FIRM has been adopted but has not identified a regulatory floodway, no 
new construction, substantial improvements, or other development (including fill) 
shall be permitted within Zones A1-30, AE, and AH on the County's FIRM, 
unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative effect of the proposed development, 
when combined with all other existing and anticipated development, will not 
increase the water surface elevation of the base flood more than 1.00* feet at any 
point within the County. 
 
12. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12 of the NFIP 
Regulations, the County may approve certain development in Zones A1-30, AE, 
and AH on the County’s FIRM, which increases the water surface elevation of the 
base flood by more than 1.00* foot, provided that the County first meets the 
requirements of Section 65.12 for a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA’s 
CLOMR process. 
 
13. If the project is determined or reasonably believed to cause an adverse effect on 
the BFE(s), boundaries of the floodplain or any insurable structures, technical 
justification for the proposed development shall be submitted and the County may 
require a CLOMR or LOMR to be submitted prior to the permit approval or as a 
requirement of the permit. 
 
C. Requirement to Submit New Technical Data 
 
1. The property owner or developer shall notify FEMA (and Salt Lake County Flood 
Control for property on or adjoining County Flood Control Facilities as outlined 
in Salt Lake County Code Title 17) by submittal of a LOMR within 6 months of 
project completion when an applicant had obtained a CLOMR from FEMA or 
 
16 
 
when development altered a watercourse, modified floodplain boundaries, or 
modified BFE.   
 
2. The property owner or developer shall be responsible for preparing technical data 
to support the CLOMR or LOMR application and paying any processing or 
application fees to FEMA. The property owner or developer is responsible for 
submitting the CLOMR and LOMR to FEMA and shall provide all necessary data 
to FEMA if requested during the review process to ensure the CLOMR or LOMR 
is issued. 
 
3. The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the Community 
Acknowledgement Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application, until 
the applicant demonstrates that the project will or has met the requirements of this 
chapter, Salt Lake County Code Title 17, and all applicable state federal, and local 
laws. 
 
D. Permit Procedures 
1. Application for a Floodplain Development Permit shall be presented to Salt Lake 
County Flood Control and the Floodplain Administrator or Designee on forms 
furnished by him/her and shall include the following, and may include electronic 
rather than paper versions of the same:    
 
a. Plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of 
proposed landscape alterations. 
 
b. Plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of 
existing and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured 
homes.  
 
c. Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHAs. 
 
d. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), of the lowest floor (including 
basement and crawlspace) of all new and substantially improved 
structures, if applicable; 
 
e. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level), to which any nonresidential 
structure (if applicable) shall be floodproofed. 
 
f. A certificate from a registered professional engineer that the 
nonresidential floodproofed structure (if applicable) shall meet the 
floodproofing criteria of this chapter and the NFIP Regulations.  
 
g. Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage 
will be altered or relocated because of proposed development, if 
applicable. 
 
 
17 
 
h. All other information that may be reasonably required by the Floodplain 
Administrator or Salt Lake County Flood Control. 
 
i. At the County’s discretion, the County may charge a fee for issuance of 
floodplain development permits in accordance with the process outlined in 
Salt Lake County Code section 3.42.040. 
 
j. Copies of all Floodplain Development Permits and the associated 
documents shall become property of the County and shall be a permanent 
record. 
 
2. Approval or denial of a Floodplain Development Permit by the Floodplain 
Administrator or Designee shall be based on all of the provisions of this chapter.  
Where all provisions of this chapter are met, the Floodplain Administrator or 
Designee may impose reasonable conditions to mitigate the following detrimental 
impacts where there is substantial evidence of heightened risk of the same: 
 
a. Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage. 
 
b. Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage. 
 
c. Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of 
others. 
 
 
d. Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and 
emergency vehicles. 
 
e. Atypical costs of providing governmental services at this site during and 
after flood conditions including maintenance and repair of streets and 
bridges, and public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical, and 
water systems. 
 
f. Atypical heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of 
the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at 
the site. 
 
g. Siting to alternative locations on the property that are not subject to 
flooding or erosion damage is one such reasonable condition. 
 
E. Variance Procedures 
 
1. The land use hearing officer shall hear and render judgment on requests for 
variances from the requirements of this chapter, as provided in this chapter and 
Chapter 19.92.    
 
 
18 
 
a. The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain in perpetuity a record of all 
variance actions, including justification for their issuance, and shall 
report variances to FEMA and the State Coordinating Agency upon 
issuing a variance. 
 
b. Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial 
improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size 
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed 
below the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in this chapter 
have been fully considered. Deviations from this one-half acre limitation 
may occur, but as the lot size increases beyond the one-half acre, the 
technical justification required for issuing the variance increases, as 
outlined in the FEMA Floodplain Management Bulletin on Variances.   
 
c. Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this 
chapter, the Land Use Hearing Officer may attach such conditions to the 
granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purpose and 
objectives of this chapter.  
 
d. Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any 
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result. 
 
e. Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic 
structures upon a determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation 
will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a historic 
structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to preserve the 
historic character and design of the structure. The term ‘‘substantial 
improvement’’ does not include any alteration of a structure or facility 
listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of 
Historic Places. 
 
2. Prerequisites for granting variances: 
 
a. Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is 
the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief. 
Variances shall only be issued upon: 
i. Showing a good and sufficient cause (compliance with this section 
and section 19.92.040). 
 
ii. A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in 
exceptional hardship to the applicant. 
 
iii. A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in 
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, 
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or 
victimization of the public, conflict with existing local laws or 
 
19 
 
ordinances (other than those for which a variance is sought), 
considers the need of ingress and egress during times of floods, 
and does not jeopardize first responders’ health and welfare. 
 
b. Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice 
that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest floor 
elevation below the BFE, and that the cost of flood insurance will be 
commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest 
floor elevation. 
 
c. Variances may be issued by the County for new construction and 
substantial improvements and for other development necessary for the 
conduct of a functionally dependent use provided that:  
 
i. The criteria outlined in 19.74.050 Variance Procedures are met; 
and 
 
ii. The structure or other development is protected by methods that 
minimize flood damages during the base flood and create no 
additional threats to public safety. 
 
19.73.070 Provisions for Flood Hazard Reduction 
 
A. General Standards 
 
In all special flood hazard areas, the following provisions are required for all new 
construction and substantial improvements: 
 
1. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be designed (or 
modified) and adequately anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral 
movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, 
including the effects of buoyancy. 
 
2. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed by 
methods and practices that minimize flood damage. 
 
3. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with 
materials resistant to flood damage. 
 
4. All new construction or substantial improvements shall be constructed with 
electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning equipment and 
other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent water 
from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of 
flooding. 
 
 
20 
 
5. All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize 
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system. 
 
6. New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize 
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system and discharge from the 
systems into flood waters. 
 
7. On-site waste disposal systems shall be designed or located to avoid 
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding. 
 
B. Substantial Improvement 
 
Any combination of repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or improvement of 
a building or structure, if the cumulative cost of the entire project equals or exceeds 
50 percent of the market value of the structure only (not of the structure and land 
value combined) before the improvement or repair is started is a substantial 
improvement. If the structure has sustained substantial damage, any repairs are 
considered substantial improvements regardless of the actual repair work performed. 
The term does not, however, include either: 
 
1. Any project for improvement of a building required to correct existing health, 
sanitary, or safety code violations identified by the building official and that 
are the minimum necessary to assure safe living conditions. 
 
2. Any alteration of a historic structure provided that the alteration will not 
preclude the structure’s continued designation as a historic structure. 
 
C. Substantial Damage 
 
Substantial damage means damage of any origin sustained by a structure whereby the 
cost of restoring the structure to its pre-damaged condition would equal or exceed 50 
percent of the market value of the structure only before the damage occurred. This 
term also applies to structures which have incurred any damage that equals or exceeds 
50 percent of the structure’s market value regardless of the actual repair work 
performed. When a structure or building has been determined as substantially 
damaged, any work or repair on said structure or building will be considered as 
substantial improvement and will be required to meet the development requirements 
set forth within this chapter for substantial improvement. 
 
D. Substantial Improvement and Substantial Damage Determination 
 
For applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including 
alterations, movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, 
additions, rehabilitations, renovations, and any other improvement of or work on such 
buildings and structures, the Floodplain Administrator or Designee, in coordination 
 
21 
 
with the applicable County officials and staff, shall:  
 
1. Estimate the market value of the building or structure only (not of land) before 
the start of construction of the proposed work.  If the applicant disagrees with 
the estimated market value, the applicant may obtain an appraisal of the 
market value prepared by a qualified independent appraiser. In the case of 
repair, the market value of the building or structure shall be the market value 
before the damage occurred and before any repairs are made.  
 
2. Compare the cost to perform the improvement, the cost to repair a damaged 
building to its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of improvements 
and repairs, if applicable, to the market value of the building or structure. 
 
3. Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes substantial 
improvement or repair of substantial damage; the determination requires 
evaluation of previous permits issued for improvements and repairs as 
specified in 19.74.060 sections B and C. 
 
 
4. Utilize FEMA’s Substantial Improvement/Substantial Desk Reference when 
making any determination on Substantial Improvement and/or Substantial 
Damage. 
 
The substantial improvement regulations apply to all of the work that is 
proposed as the improvement, even if multiple permits are issued. Therefore, 
the determination of the cost of the improvement should consider all costs of 
all phases of the work before issuance of the first permit. 
 
5. Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work constitutes 
substantial improvement or repair of substantial damage, compliance with the 
flood regulations of this chapter is required. 
 
E. Residential Construction 
 
New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have 
the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to 1 foot above BFE. A registered 
professional engineer, or land surveyor shall submit certified elevations to the 
Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this chapter are satisfied. 
 
F. Nonresidential Construction 
 
New construction and substantial improvements of any commercial, industrial, or 
other nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor (including basement) 
elevated to 1 foot above the base flood elevation, or together with attendant utility 
and sanitary facilities be designed so that below 1 foot above the base flood elevation 
the structure is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of 
 
22 
 
water and with structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic 
and hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer 
shall develop and/or review structural design, specifications, and plans for the 
construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in 
accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined in this subsection. A 
record of such certification that includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean 
sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be maintained by the 
Floodplain Administrator. If the use or occupancy of the building changes in the 
future to residential, then the dry floodproofing of the structure cannot be used when 
determining compliance of the structure to the residential construction of this chapter. 
As such, the building will not be grandfathered into compliance and will be required 
to be brought into compliance with the residential construction requirements of this 
chapter. 
 
G. Enclosures 
 
New construction and substantial improvements, with fully enclosed areas below the 
lowest floor that are to be used solely for parking of vehicles, building access, or 
storage in an area other than a basement, and are subject to flooding shall be designed 
to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for 
the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be 
certified by a registered professional engineer, or must meet or exceed the following 
minimum criteria: 
 
1. A minimum of two flood openings having a total net area of not less than 1 
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be 
provided. 
 
2. The bottom of all flood openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above grade. 
 
3. Flood openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other 
coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of 
floodwaters. 
 
The development and construction of the structure must conform with the provision 
in FEMA/Federal Insurance Administration (FIA)-Technical Bulletins 1 and 2. 
Enclosures below the BFE may only be used for building access, vehicle parking, and 
storage. Certification and documentation from a professional, licensed engineer is 
required if the structure’s lowest floor is built below the BFE.  Applicant shall enter 
into a maintenance and nonconversion agreement with the County that it will 
maintain the improvements outlined in this paragraph and not modify or convert them 
to uses other than approved uses.   
 
H. Crawlspace 
 
 
23 
 
New construction and substantial improvements built on a crawlspace or sub-grade 
(below grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the development is designed and meets 
or exceeds the standards found in FEMA’s Technical Bulletins 1, 2, and 11, which 
include but are not limited to the following: 
 
1. The structure must be affixed to a permanent foundation, designed and 
adequately anchored to resist flotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the 
structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the 
effects of buoyancy. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction 
is not allowed in areas with flood velocities greater than 5 feet per second 
unless the design is reviewed by a qualified design professional, such as a 
registered professional engineer.   
 
2. The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the BFE and, as such, must have 
flood openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic 
entry and exit of floodwaters. The bottom of each flood vent opening can be 
no more than 1 foot above the LAG.  
 
3. The crawlspace enclosure must have proper flood openings that allow 
equalization of hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of 
floodwaters. To achieve this, a minimum of 1 square inch of flood opening is 
required per 1 square foot of the enclosed area subject to flooding.  
 
4. Portions of the building below the BFE must be constructed with materials 
resistant to flood damage. This includes not only the foundation walls of the 
crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists, insulation, piers, 
or other materials that extend below the BFE. Ductwork must either be placed 
above the BFE or sealed from floodwaters. 
  
5. Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the 
BFE or designed so that floodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within the 
system components during flood conditions.  
 
6. The interior grade of a crawlspace below the BFE must not be more than 2 
feet below the LAG.  
 
7. The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest interior 
grade of the crawlspace floor to the bottom of the floor joist of the next higher 
floor cannot exceed 4 feet at any point.  
 
8. There must be an adequate drainage system that removes floodwaters from the 
interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained within a 
reasonable time after a flood event.  
 
 
24 
 
Note:  Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher flood 
insurance premiums than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace 
construction, with the interior elevation at or above the LAG. 
 
I. Manufactured Homes 
 
1. All manufactured homes placed within Zone A on the County's FHBM or 
FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices that minimize flood 
damage. For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured homes must be 
elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral movement. 
Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of over-the-top 
or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable 
State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces. 
 
2. Manufactured homes that are placed or substantially improved within Zones 
A1-30, AH, and AE on the County's FIRM on sites outside of a manufactured 
home park or subdivision; in a new manufactured home park or subdivision; 
in an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision; or in 
an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on which a manufactured 
home has incurred "substantial damage" as a result of a flood, shall comply 
with the following:  be elevated on a permanent foundation such that the 
lowest floor of the manufactured home is elevated to 1 foot above BFE, and 
be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system to resist 
flotation, collapse, and lateral movement. 
 
3. In A-1-30, AH, AO and AE Zones, manufactured homes placed or 
substantially improved in an existing manufactured home park shall be 
elevated so that the lowest floor is 1 foot above BFE; or the chassis is 
supported by reinforced piers no less than 36 inches in height above grade and 
securely anchored. 
 
J. Recreation Vehicles 
 
Recreational vehicles placed on sites within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the 
County's FIRM shall either: 
 
1. Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days and be fully licensed and 
ready for highway use; 
 
a. A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or 
jacking system, is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type 
utilities and security devices, and has no permanently attached 
additions; or 
 
 
25 
 
2. Meet the permit requirements of 19.74.060(D): Permit Procedures, and the 
elevation and anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" of this 
section. 
 
K. Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones) 
 
Located within the SFHAs established in 19.74.050 A, Lands to Which this Chapter 
Applies, are areas designated as shallow flooding. These special flood hazard areas 
associated with base flood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly defined channel does 
not exist and where the path of flooding is unpredictable, and where velocity flow 
may be evident. Such flooding is characterized by ponding or sheet flow; therefore, 
the following provisions apply: 
1. All new construction and substantial improvements of residential structures 
have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated 1 foot above the highest 
adjacent grade at least as high as 1 foot above the depth number specified in 
feet on the County's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number is specified) 
flood elevation.  
 
2. All new construction and substantial improvements of non-residential 
structures: 
 
a. Have the lowest floor (including basement) elevated to 1 foot above the 
highest adjacent grade at least as high as 1 foot above the depth number 
specified in feet on the County's FIRM (at least 2 feet if no depth number 
is specified).; or 
 
b. Together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities be designed so that 
below 1 foot above the base flood level the structure is watertight with 
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with 
structural components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and 
hydrodynamic loads of effects of buoyancy.  
 
3. A registered professional engineer shall submit a certification to the 
Floodplain Administrator that the standards of this subsection have been met.  
 
4. Within Zones AH or AO, adequate drainage paths around structures on slopes 
of at least 2%, to guide flood waters around and away from proposed 
structures, is required. 
 
L. Floodways 
 
Because floodways located within SFHAs are extremely hazardous areas due to the 
velocity of flood waters that carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, 
the following provisions shall apply to such floodways adopted by ordinance: 
 
 
26 
 
1. Encroachments are prohibited, including fill, new construction, substantial 
improvements and other development within the adopted regulatory floodway 
unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and hydraulic analyses 
performed in accordance with standard engineering practice that the proposed 
encroachment would not result in any increase in flood levels within the 
County during the occurrence of the base flood discharge. 
 
2. All new construction and substantial improvements shall comply with all 
applicable flood hazard reduction provisions in this chapter. 
 
3. Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the NFIP 
Regulations, the County may permit encroachments within the adopted 
regulatory floodway that would result in an increase is, provided that the 
County first applies for a conditional FIRM and floodway revision through 
FEMA. 
 
M. Standards for Subdivision Proposals 
 
1. All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home 
parks and subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce 
exposure to flood hazards. 
 
2. All proposals for the development of subdivisions, including the placement of 
manufactured home parks, shall meet Development Permit and other 
requirements of this chapter. 
 
3. BFE data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and other proposed 
development that is greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, including the placement of 
manufactured home parks and subdivisions. 
 
4. All subdivision proposals, including the placement of manufactured home 
parks, shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical 
and water systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate flood 
damage. 
 
N. Standards for V1-30, VE, and V Zones  
 
When the Federal Insurance Administrator has identified on the County’s 
unincorporated community FIRM coastal high hazard areas by designating Zones V1-
30, VE, and/or V zones, the following standards shall apply to property within such 
zones: 
1. An application for a new or substantially improved structure shall include the 
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) of the bottom of the lowest horizontal 
structural member of the lowest floor (excluding pilings and columns), and 
whether or not such structure contains a basement.  The Floodplain 
Administrator shall maintain a record of all such information. 
2. All new construction shall be located landward of the reach of mean high tide. 
 
27 
 
3. All new construction and substantial improvements shall, in Zones V1-30 and 
VE (and also Zone V if base flood elevation data is available on the County’s 
unincorporated community FIRM) be elevated on pilings and columns so that: 
a. the bottom of the lowest horizontal structural member of the lowest 
floor (excluding the pilings or columns) is elevated to or above the 
base flood level; and  
b.the pile or column foundation and structure attached thereto is 
anchored to resist flotation, collapse and lateral movement due to the 
effects of wind and water loads acting simultaneously on all building 
components.  
Water loading values used shall be those associated with the base flood.  
Wind loading values used shall be those required by applicable State or 
County building standards. A registered professional engineer or architect 
shall develop or review the structural design, specifications and plans for 
the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods of 
construction to be used are in accordance with accepted standards of 
practice for meeting the provisions of paragraphs (3)(a) and (b) of this 
subsection (N).   
4. All new construction and substantial improvements shall have the space below 
the lowest floor either free of obstruction or constructed with non-supporting 
breakaway walls, open wood lattice-work, or insect screening intended to 
collapse under wind and water loads without causing collapse, displacement, 
or other structural damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting 
foundation system. For the purposes of this section, a breakaway wall shall 
have a design safe loading resistance of not less than 10 and no more than 20 
pounds per square foot. Use of breakaway walls which exceed a design safe 
loading resistance of 20 pounds per square foot (either by design or when so 
required by County or State building codes) may be permitted only if a 
registered professional engineer or architect certifies that the designs proposed 
meet the following conditions: 
a.  Breakaway wall collapse shall result from a water load less than that 
which would occur during the base flood; and 
b.The elevated portion of the building and supporting foundation system 
shall not be subject to collapse, displacement, or other structural 
damage due to the effects of wind and water loads acting 
simultaneously on all building components (structural and non-
structural). Water loading values used shall be those associated with 
the base flood. Wind loading values used shall be those required by 
applicable State or County building standards. 
Such enclosed space shall be useable solely for parking of vehicles, 
building access, or storage. 
5. The use of fill for structural support of building is prohibited. 
6. Man-made alteration of sand dunes and mangrove stands that would increase 
potential flood damage is prohibited. 
7. Manufactured homes shall be placed or substantially improved as follows: 
a. Outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, 
 
28 
 
b.In a new manufactured home park or subdivision,  
c. In an expansion to an existing manufactured home park or subdivision, 
or 
d.If on a site in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on 
which a manufactured home has incurred substantial damage as a the 
result of a flood, the manufactured home shall meet the standards of 
paragraphs (1)-(6) of this subsection (N).  If on any other site in such a 
park or subdivision, the manufactured home shall meet the standards 
of paragraph (2) of subsection (I). 
8. Recreational vehicles shall: 
a. Be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days, 
b.Be fully licensed and ready for highway use (on its wheels or jacking 
system, attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and 
security devices and no permanently attached additions), or 
c. Meet the requirements of paragraphs (1) – (6) of this subsection (N)   
 
SECTION III.   Section 19.74.040 is amend ed as follows in order to clarify that Chapter 
19.74 of the Salt Lake County Code is only applicable to migratory bird production areas. 
19.74.040 – Areas of special flood hazard 
A. This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the jur isdiction of 
Unincorporated Salt Lake County  that are within a migratory bird production area as 
defined in State statute . The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled, "The Flood 
Insurance Study for Salt Lake County and Incorporated Communities," dated November 
19, 2021, with accompanying flood insurance rate maps (FIRMs), and any revisions thereto 
are hereby automatically adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. 
B. The director of development services shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base 
flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other source, as criteria 
for requiring that new construction, substantial im provements, or other development in 
zone A meet the provisions of Sections 19.74.050, 19.74.150, 19.74.160, 19.74.170 and 
19.74.180. Such other source base flood elevation data shall be more specifically provided 
 
29 
 
by the developer as determined by a registe red professional engineer for subdivision and 
other proposed developments which contain at least fifty lots or five acres (whichever is 
less). 
SECTION IV. This ordinance shall become effective fifteen (15) days after its passage 
and upon at least one publication of the ordinance or a summary thereof in a newspaper published 
and having general circulation in Salt Lake County. 
APPROVED AND ADOPTED this ______ day of ________________, 2022. 
SALT LAKE COUNTY COUNCIL  
 
 
 
By: _________________________________ 
 Chair 
ATTEST: 
 
______________________________ 
Sherrie Swensen 
Salt Lake County Clerk 
 
REVIEWED AS TO FORM/LEGALITY: 
 
______________________________ 
 
 
ORDINANCE HISTORY 
  Councilmember Bradley voting  ____________ 
Councilmember Bradshaw voting  ____________ 
Councilmember Theodore voting  ____________ 
Councilmember DeBry voting   ____________ 
Councilmember Granato voting  ____________  
              Councilmember Winder Newton voting    ____________ 
Councilmember Alvord voting  ____________ 
Councilmember Snelgrove voting  ____________ 
Councilmember Stringham voting              ____________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Vetoed and dated this _____ day of ______________, 2022. 
 
 
 
By: ___________________________________ 
MAYOR JENNIFER WILSON  
OR DESIGNEE 
 
 
(Complete as Applicable) 
Veto override:  Yes____ No_____    Date________ 
Ordinance Published in Newspaper: Date________ 
Effective Date of Ordinance:__________________ 
    
 
31 
 
SUMMARY OF 
SALT LAKE COUNTY ORDINANCE NO. ___________ 
On the _______ day of __________________, 2022, the County Council of Salt 
Lake County adopted Ordinance No. _____________, an ordinance of general 
revision, enacting chapter 19.73 of the Salt Lake County code entitled Flood 
Damage Prevention to make regulations in the unincorporated County outside of a 
migratory bird production area consistent with FEMA regulations; amending 
section 19.74.040 entitled Areas of Special Flood Hazard to clarify that chapter 
19.74 is only applicable to m igratory bird production areas; and enacting related 
regulations.   
SALT LAKE COUNTY COUNCIL  
 
 
 
By: __________________________ 
Chair 
ATTEST: 
 
______________________________ 
Sherrie Swensen 
Salt Lake County Clerk 
 
REVIEWED AS TO FORM/LEGALITY: 
 
______________________________ 
  
   
  Councilmember Bradley voting  ____________ 
Councilmember Bradshaw voting  ____________ 
Councilmember Theodore voting  ____________ 
Councilmember DeBry voting   ____________ 
Councilmember Granato voting  ____________  
              Councilmember Winder Newton voting    ____    ______ 
Councilmember Alvord voting  ____________ 
Councilmember Snelgrove voting  ____________ 
Councilmember Stringham voting     ____________ 
 
 
 
A complete copy of Ordinance No. __________ is available in the office of the Salt Lake 
County Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-100A, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
 