DATE           WEDNESDAY                             APRIL                           21, 2021

              THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 2021, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON WEDNESDAY, MARCH
17, 2021, AT THE HOUR OF 6:30 P.M. THE MEETING WAS HELD VIA ZOOM DUE TO THE
ONGOING PANDEMIC.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT:                       TESSA STITZER
                               KATHLEEN BAILEY
                               DAVID OLSEN
                               KEVIN SEVERSON
                               SEAN CLAYTON, Chair

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: NATHAN BRACKEN, LEGAL COUNSEL, COPPERTON
                      METRO TOWNSHIP
                      NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY COUNTY CLERK

                               ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              Mayor Clayton, Chair, presided.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Clayton referred to the temporary conduct of electronic meetings of the
Copperton Metro Township Council that is consistent with the Utah Open and Public Meeting Act.
This allows the Council to hold electronic meetings without a physical anchor location.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Community Input

Citizen Comments

              No one appeared for Citizen Comments.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA)

               Ed Walden, UFA, stated the crews are getting ready for wild land fire season and
reviewing the land around Kennecott. UFA can assess your home if you want to know more
information on how to prepare your homes for a fire. Keep grasses down, as well as other things
that can quickly move a fire.

              Mayor Clayton stated UFA should let the Council know if they see anything that
needs follow up.



                                              1
DATE            WEDNESDAY                                APRIL                              21, 2021

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Police Department (UPD)

             Detective Harry Holt, UPD, reviewed last month’s calls for service. Be careful as
you come and go from Copperton. There have been several accidents off Bacchus Highway.

               Mayor Clayton thanked Detective Holt for everything he does to keep the town
safe.

                                   ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Business

Approval of Minutes

              Council Member Bailey, seconded by Council Member Severson, moved to
approve the minutes of the Copperton Metro Township Council meeting held on March 17, 2021.
The motion passed unanimously.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Fiscal Items – Approval of Expenditures

                Mayor Clayton stated he received an invoice from the Utah Local Governments
Trust for the Council’s liability insurance policy and workman’s compensation. The liability portion
of the bill decreased from last year and workman’s compensation remained the same. The total
invoice is for $9,257.00. The other invoice is for $924.00 for legal services through March 24,
2021.

               Council Member Stitzer, seconded by Council Member Bailey, moved to approve
the two invoices. The motion passed unanimously.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Animal Services Annual Report

               Carrie Sibert, Liaison Coordinator, Salt Lake County Animal Services Division,
delivered a PowerPoint presentation for the Copperton COVID 2020 Annual Report. She
reviewed 2020 highlights, shelter/clinic operations, services provided, licenses issued, field
operations and statistics, citations and notices of violations, fundraising, fostering, volunteers, and
the pet food pantry.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−



                                                  2
DATE           WEDNESDAY                             APRIL                            21, 2021

Copperton Improvement District Water Conservation

              Harvey Seal, Board Member, Copperton Improvement District, discussed toilet
replacement, watering dates and times, and the status of wells. Copperton is doing a good job
overall.

               Nathan Bracken stated he represented the Water District, and they will initiate
some restrictions if the drought gets worse.

              Mayor Clayton asked if this would be beneficial to have on Copperton’s website
and newsletter.

              Council Member Severson stated it was a good idea to put it on the website.

              Council Member Stitzer stated it was important to remind residents when their
dedicated water days are.

              Mayor Clayton stated he would like more information to distribute to residents
about promoting better water conservancy. He asked Mr. Seal to provide more information for
the next meeting.

               Council Member Olsen stated in the past there has been specific days to water
his lawn, and a monthly report to show if goals were met.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Election Contract with County Clerk

              Mayor Clayton noted that a law was passed to allow for rank choice voting. The
Council needs to approve a contract with Salt Lake County Elections.

              Nathan Bracken stated the Clerk wants an agreement to state what the rules are
and what we are to do. Most of it is keeping in place what is already happening now. The Council
needs to choose rank choice voting or regular voting. The costs are virtually the same.

               Council Member Stitzer, seconded by Council Member Bailey, moved to approve
the contract with no rank choice voting. The motion passed unanimously.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Arborist Update

               Daniel Allen, arborist, stated the master plan is on schedule to be submitted by
the May 2, 2021, deadline. He delivered a PowerPoint presentation reviewing Copperton’s tree
inventory and species, age and condition of trees, maintenance needs and priorities, and future
goals. He also answered questions about watering trees correctly, drought tolerant trees, and
incorporating care of trees into the current maintenance plan.

                                               3
DATE           WEDNESDAY                             APRIL                            21, 2021


               Mayor Clayton stated Copperton has about $75,000 from the MSD for trees. They
can continue to budget $25,000 to $30,000 per year. Copperton also has a grant to allow for new
irrigation.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
CARES Act Funding

                Mayor Clayton stated $23,364.68 has been deposited into a special checking
account in Copperton’s name for the CARES Act funding. This was money they were scheduled
to get at the end of last year, but it is coming through now. This money has no strings attached.
He would like to use it for COVID related things.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Amazon Letter Update

                Mayor Clayton updated the Council on the dangerous traffic situation in front of
the Amazon facility. West Jordan was amazing to work with. The Mayor contacted someone in
their division who called him twice a week with updates. The wire and poles are down. He even
heard back from South Jordan’s Mayor letting him know that West Jordan was working on it.

                                   −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Committee/Board Updates

          Legislative Research Committee

              Nothing to report.

          Bingham Cemetery Board

              Council Member Stitzer stated the cemetery is planning the annual clean up on
May 22, 2021. Last year they did a two-day clean up on a Friday evening and Saturday during
the day. Everyone is invited to help with the annual cleanup. It makes everything pretty for
Memorial Day.

She asked if the Council would allow the Cemetery Board to use the metro logo for a flag that
would fly in tandem with the American Flag on the cemetery flagpole.

              Mayor Clayton stated the Copperton flag would be a nice idea.

          Copperton Community Council

               Council Member Stitzer stated the Community Council received the metro
allocation and Rio Tinto has given a donation toward community events, including Town Days.

                                               4
DATE           WEDNESDAY                              APRIL                           21, 2021

Town Days will be held August 27-29, 2021. Bingo will be starting in June. It may be set up in
the park.

 Rio Tinto has removed the conveyor belt and crusher. They will also be doing a report on air
quality. She also noted personnel changes within Rio Tinto.

          Planning Commission

              Council Member Severson stated the Planning Commission did not meet.

          Annexation Committee

              Mayor Clayton stated he, Council Member Stitzer, and Nathan Bracken met with
Kearns Metro Township Mayor Kelly Bush. They will also set up a meeting with Catherine Kanter,
Salt Lake County Deputy Mayor of Regional Operations, about potential annexations.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Copperton Metro Township Council Member Reports

          Council Member Clayton

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

               Mayor Clayton stated a wildfire emergency management plan is being drafted. It
will integrate with Copperton’s emergency management plan. They discussed the viability of
moving the Engineering Division to the MSD and away from the County. In January, the MSD
started charging a credit card fee and the agency is now breaking even.

          Council Member Olsen

Unified Police Department (UPD)
Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

               Council Member Olsen stated SLVLESA reinstated an anchor location for their
meetings this month, but continued with the option to call in. They discussed the need for Kearns
and Magna to each bring on two new Sergeants. SLVLESA also approved hiring a lobbyist.

Arrests have been made in the February case of the lady who was kidnapped and murdered.
This case required some international travel. Because it was an ongoing investigation and
needed timely approval, Sheriff Rosie Rivera reached out to Mayor Jeff Silvestrini for board
approval. He emailed everyone to see if anyone had a problem with international travel. Nobody
did and Mayor Silvestrini authorized it. Subsequently, in the next meeting, the board approved
Mayor Silvestrini acting on the board’s behalf in special circumstances providing he gets input
from the board.

          Council Member Bailey

                                               5
DATE          WEDNESDAY                             APRIL                         21, 2021


Unified Fire Authority (UFA)
Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

               Council Member Bailey stated UFA is working on its budget and will schedule a
public hearing. They will be requesting funding from the CARES Act to offset COVID costs.

         Council Member Stitzer

Wasatch Front Waste & Recycling District (WFWRD)

              WFWRD will meet on Monday.

         Council Member Severson

Salt Lake County Animal Services Advisory Council

              The Advisory Council will meet on Thursday.

                               ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Citizen Comments

              No one appeared for Citizen Comments.

                               ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Other Announcements

              None.

                               ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.

                                   SHERRIE SWENSEN, METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK




                                   By ________________________________
                                          Deputy Clerk




                                             6
DATE        WEDNESDAY                    APRIL   21, 2021



___________________________________________
CHAIR, COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                         ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                         ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                         ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                                     7
