                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.pwpds.slco.org



        Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                    Tuesday, February 12, 2019 6:00 P.M.

Location
BINGHAM CANYON LIONS CLUB
95 EAST HILLCREST STREET
COPPERTON, UTAH
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2019
    2) Approval of Minutes from the January 15, 2019 meeting.
    3) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances
    4) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                          ADJOURN




February 12, 2019                           Page 1 of 1       AGENDA – COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                            Planning and Development Services
                                            2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                            Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                            www.pwpds.slco.org




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                      COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                 Tuesday, January 15, 2019 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 52 minutes                         *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                     found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                      County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner

                                                ATTENDANCE

                                Public     Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                                                 Public      Business
                                 Mtg         Mtg                             Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                              Mtg          Mtg
         Ranuta Alder                         x
         Vern Winkler                         x                               Curtis Woodward                                 x
          Ryan Taylor                         x                                 Wendy Gurr                                    x
      Doug Green (Chair)                      x
     Mike Stone (Vice Chair)                            x


                                             BUSINESS MEETING

                                          Meeting began at – 6:07 p.m.
        Commissioner Taylor nominated Commissioner Alder for Chair Pro-tem, Commissioner Alder
        accepted that nomination.

        Commissioner Alder motioned to move election of Chair and Vice Chair to the end of the meeting,
        Commissioner Taylor seconded that motion.

    1) Approval of Minutes from the November 13, 2018 meeting
       Motion: To approve minutes from the November 13, 2018 meeting as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
             2nd by: Commissioner Alder
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances.
        Mr. Woodward provided copies of the open space zones from South Jordan City, Salt Lake City,
        and Sandy City ordinances for review and advised South Jordan City would be more suitable for
        Copperton Metro Township. Discussed ORD zone.

        Commissioners had questions regarding OS zone for South Jordan City regarding Cemetery.


Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – January 15, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                   Page 1 of 4
        Commissioner Green arrived at 6:24pm.

        Commissioner Green asked if they could get anything to the easement north, it would be inviting
        and they don’t have all the restrictions. Commissioner Green asked what they would have to put in
        their code to annex in to Copperton. Mr. Woodward said it could be done with a development
        agreement. Could add a provision in the zoning ordinance, Copperton could have add at the time
        of annexation into Copperton, council may designate a zoning at one of their meetings. Chapter
        19.76, supplementary and qualifying regulations, miscellaneous junk of zoning ordinance,
        remember to add what to do when a property is annexed into Copperton.

        Commissioner Winkler said go restrictive and if someone wants to come back later. Commissioner
        Alder said she likes the South Jordan open space zone.

        Mr. Woodward went through South Jordan City Chapter 17.23 – Open Space Zone

17.23.020 –

D. Keep at 72 hours
E. Keep at 72 hours

17.23.070 –

Keep changes

17.23.080 –

A. Add “Permanent”dumpsters

17.23.090 –

D. Keep Changes

17.23.100 –

A. Keep Changes
B. Keep Changes
F. Keep Changes
G. Change Metro Engineer to Metro Council.

17.23.150 –

Keep Changes

Chapter 19.45 – ORD

19.45.010      No change
19.45.020      No change
19.45.030      No change


Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – January 15, 2019 – Meeting Summary             Page 2 of 4
19.45.040      Strike Private nonprofit locker club, Restaurant, remove excluding drive-through or take-
out service,
19.45.050      No change
19.45.060      No change
19.45.070      No change
19.45.080      No change
19.45.090      No change
19.45.100      No change
19.45.110      No change
19.45.120      No change
19.45.130      No change
19.45.140      No change
19.45.150      No change
19.45.160      No change
19.45.170      No change
19.45.180      No change
19.45.190      Remove Salt Lake County, just have general plan

19.46 – RMH

19.46.010      No change
19.46.020      No change
19.46.030      No change
19.46.040      No change
19.46.050      No change
19.46.060      No change
19.46.070      No change
19.46.080      No change
19.46.090      No change
19.46.100      No change
19.46.110      No change
19.46.120      No change
19.46.130      Remove Salt Lake County, just have Copperton subdivision ordinance.
19.46.140      No change

19.48 – A-1

19.48.010      No change
19.48.020      No change
19.48.030      No change
19.48.040      No change
19.48.050      No change
19.48.060      No change
19.48.070      No change
19.48.080      No change
19.48.090      No change
19.48.100      No change
19.48.110      No change

19.50 – A-2

Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – January 15, 2019 – Meeting Summary              Page 3 of 4
No changes throughout

19.52 – A-5, A10 and A-20

No changes throughout

    3) Other Business Items (as needed)
       No other business items to discuss.

    4) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2019

Commissioner Winkler motioned to adjourn.

                                        MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 7:59 p.m.




Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – January 15, 2019 – Meeting Summary   Page 4 of 4
               Ordinance Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission              Meeting Date: February 12, 2019
Request: Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances
Planner: Curtis Woodward


                                       PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This month’s packet includes chapters from the zoning ordinance to continue where the commission left off last
month and the proposed open space district based on South Jordan’s.




                                               SUMMARY
Attached are the following chapters of the zoning ordinance for review:
19.20 The proposed open space zones chapter
19.54 (Foothills Agriculture) – previously recommended for removal
19.55 (MD-1, MD-3 Mixed Development) – previously recommended for removal
19.56 (C-1 Commercial)
19.60 (C-V Commercial) – previously recommended for removal
19.62 (C-2 Commercial)
19.64 (C-3 Commercial)




                                                       1
                       Chapter 19.20 OPEN SPACE (OS) ZONES
19.20.010: PURPOSE:

The open space zones may be cited as the "OS-P" (Park Open Space) or “OS-N” (Natural Open Space) and are
established to provide areas where large and small scale open space amenities can be located in the Metro. Generally,
these areas are to be open or largely undeveloped. The zones are intended to encourage a comprehensive network of
permanent, multifunctional, publicly and privately owned open spaces. Development standards are designed to prevent the
encroachment of residential, commercial, and industrial uses into open space areas and to help implement open space
objectives of the Metro's general plan.




19.20.020: USE REGULATIONS:

Uses may be conducted in OS zones only in accordance with the following regulations:



A. Only allowed permitted, conditional or accessory uses as set forth in this chapter may be conducted in OS zones. A
conditional use permit must be obtained prior to the establishment of a conditional use.



B. Accessory uses and buildings are permitted in OS zones only in conjunction with allowed permitted and conditional
uses. Accessory uses include, but are not limited to, parking lots and terraces, properly screened utility and loading areas
and other buildings and activities which are incidental and subordinate to the principal permitted or conditional use on the
premises.



C. There shall be no open storage of trash, debris, used materials, wrecked or neglected equipment or materials in OS
zones.



D. No vehicle, boat or trailer, or parts thereof, which is in a wrecked, junked, dismantled, inoperative or abandoned
condition, attended or not, may be parked or stored in OS zones for longer than seventy two (72) hours unless stored within
a completely enclosed building.



E. No commercial vehicles such as earthmoving or material handling equipment, semitrucks or trailers or any commercial
truck, trailer or vehicle may be stored in OS zones for longer than seventy two (72) hours, except in conjunction with an
approved use or approved development or construction activities on the property.



F. Utility trailers and recreational vehicles such as motorhomes, travel trailers, watercraft, campers and all-terrain vehicles,
may not be stored in any area in OS zones.




19.20.030: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW:

All uses proposed in OS zones may only be established in conformance with development review procedures of the Metro.
Applicants shall follow the procedures and requirements of this code regarding development review in the preparation and
review of development proposals in the OS zones. All uses shall be conducted according to the approved plan or plat and
any conditions of approval. Plans or plats may not be altered without prior approval of the Metro, except as allowed under
state law.

                                                               2
19.20.040: LOT WIDTH AND FRONTAGE:

No minimum lot width is required for lots in the OS zone except that parcels shall have sufficient frontage or access to
accommodate proposed development. Parcels not fronting on a street must be accessible via a recorded easement or right
of way.




19.20.050: AREA REQUIREMENTS:

The following area requirements shall apply in the OS zone:



A. Minimum Zone Area: The minimum area in an OS zone shall be one acre.



B. Minimum Lot Area: There shall be no minimum lot area in OS zones except that parcels shall have sufficient size to
accommodate proposed development.




19.20.060: PRIOR CREATED LOTS:

Nonconforming lots or parcels of land which legally existed or were created by a preliminary or final plat approval prior to the
establishment of an OS zone shall be brought into conformance with the requirements of this chapter prior to development.




19.20.070: PARKING AND ACCESS:

Parking areas and access in OS zones shall meet requirements of the zoning ordinance.




19.20.080: FENCING, SCREENING AND CLEAR VISION:

The following fencing, screening and clear vision requirements shall apply in OS zones:



A. All mechanical equipment, antennas (where possible), loading and utility areas and trash dumpsters shall be screened
from view with architectural features or walls consistent with materials used in the associated buildings.



B. The boundary of an OS zone which is not in or adjacent to a street and which is adjacent to a residential or agricultural
zone may be required to be fenced. Fencing or landscaping techniques may be required to buffer and protect waterways,
trails, parks, open spaces or other uses as determined with development approval.



C. No wall, fence or screening material shall be erected between a street and a front or street side building line in OS
zones, except as required in subsection A of this section.



D. Landscape materials, except for mature trees which are pruned at least seven feet (7') above the ground, and fences
shall not exceed three feet (3') in height within a ten foot (10') triangular area formed by the edge of a driveway and a street
right
                                                               3
of way line or within a thirty foot (30') triangular area formed by the right of way lines of intersecting streets. (Ord. 2013-02,
2- 19-2013)




19.20.090: ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS:

The following architectural standards are required in OS zones:



A. Architectural drawings and elevations, exterior materials and colors of all buildings shall be submitted in conjunction
with site plan review. In projects containing multiple buildings, a design book containing architectural theme, features,
exterior materials and colors governing the entire project shall be submitted.



B. All building materials shall be high quality, durable and low maintenance.



C. Exterior walls of buildings, in excess of sixty feet (60') in length, shall have relief features at least four inches (4") deep
at planned intervals. All sides of buildings shall receive design consideration.



D. Signs shall meet requirements of the zoning ordinance and shall be constructed of materials which complement the
buildings which they identify.



E. The maximum building height in OS zones shall be thirty five feet (35'), unless otherwise approved by the planning
commission.



F.   The exteriors of buildings in the OS zone shall be properly maintained by the owners. (Ord. 2013-02, 2-19-2013)




19.20.100: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:

The following landscaping requirements and standards shall apply in OS zones:



A. The front, side and rear yards of lots in OS zones, shall be landscaped and properly maintained with grass, deciduous
and evergreen trees and other plant material approved in conjunction with a site plan or plat for the development. Natural
open space areas shall incorporate plant materials as provided in the Metro's "Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone".



B. All areas of lots in OS zones not approved for parking, buildings or other hard surfacing shall be landscaped and
properly maintained with grass, deciduous and evergreen trees and other plant material approved in conjunction with a site
plan or plat for the development. Natural open space areas shall incorporate plant materials as provided in the Metro's
"Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone".



C. A minimum of thirty percent (30%) of required yard area trees shall be minimum seven foot (7') evergreens. Deciduous
trees shall be minimum two inch (2") caliper. Deciduous and evergreen trees required in this section need not be equally
spaced but shall be dispersed throughout the required yard areas on the site.




                                                                 4
D. All collector streets and other public and private park strips in OS zones shall be improved and maintained by the
adjoining owners according to specifications adopted by the Metro unless otherwise allowed with development approval.



E. Trees may not be topped nor may any landscape material be removed in OS zones without Metro approval. Any dead
plant material shall be replaced in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and the conditions of site plan or plat
approval.



F.   The landscaping in parking areas in OS zones shall comply with the requirements of 19.77.060.



G. Development which is contiguous to canals, streams or drainage areas shall make reasonable efforts to include banks
and rights of way in the landscaping of the project and the urban trails system. Any areas so included and perpetually
preserved may be counted toward required yard space. If approved by the Metro engineer, waterways which traverse
developments may be left open if properly landscaped and maintained by the adjacent owners. Waterways may not be
altered without written approval of any entity or agency having jurisdiction over said waterways.



H. All required landscaping in OS zones shall be installed (or escrowed due to season) prior to occupancy.



I. All landscaped areas, including adjoining public right of way areas, shall be properly irrigated and maintained by the
owners.




19.20.110: LIGHTING:

A lighting plan shall be submitted with all new developments in the OS zone. Site lighting shall be shielded to prevent glare
on adjacent properties.

Lighting fixtures shall be architectural grade with a unified streetlight design, as approved by Public Works.




19.20.120: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:


A. Grading And Drainage: All development sites in OS zones shall be graded according to the Metro engineering and
building requirements to provide adequate drainage. Buildings shall be equipped with facilities for the discharge of all roof
drainage onto the subject lot or parcel.



B. Maintenance: All private areas in developments shall be properly maintained by the owners.



C. Easements: Buildings may not be located within a public easement.




                                                               5
D. Phasing Plan: A project phasing plan shall be submitted for review at the time of plat or site plan approval. Development
shall be in accordance with the phasing plan unless a revised phasing plan is approved by the Metro.




19.20.130: REQUIREMENTS UNIQUE TO THE PARK OPEN SPACE (OS-P) SUBDISTRICT:


A. Purpose Of The OS-P Subdistrict: The purpose of this subdistrict is to encourage the acquisition and development of park
open space acreage within the Metro. The focus of the zone is to help implement the open space and recreational goals and
policies of the Metro's general plan, as well as the Metro's open space master plan, in regards to developable open space.




19.20.140: PERMITTED USES IN THE OS-P SUBDISTRICT:

The following uses may be conducted in the OS-P subdistrict:

Accessory uses to approved permitted and conditional uses, such as, but not limited to, restrooms, parking lots, properly
screened utility and loading areas, the preparing and serving of food and beverages, the sale of equipment and supplies in
connection with approved recreational activities, and other buildings and activities which are incidental and subordinate to
the principal permitted use on the premises.

Botanical gardens.

Community gardens.

Conservation areas, including, but not limited to, watershed areas, wildlife refuges, wetlands, woodlands, and riparian areas.

Nature or zoological exhibits and facilities.

Open air theaters, amphitheaters, and meeting places. Trails, trailheads, and walkways.




19.20.150: CONDITIONAL USES IN THE OS-P SUBDISTRICT:

Cemetery.

Parks and recreational areas, including, but not limited to, playgrounds, athletic fields, golf courses, country clubs, tennis
courts, pavilions, dog parks, urban fisheries, and swimming pools.

Public, quasi-public facilities.

Telecommunications, meeting the requirements of the zoning ordinance.




19.20.160: REQUIREMENTS UNIQUE TO THE NATURAL OPEN SPACE (OS-N) SUBDISTRICT:


A. Purpose Of The OS-N Subdistrict: The purpose of this subdistrict is to encourage the acquisition and protection of natural
open space acreage within the Metro. Activities that may have a detrimental effect upon natural open space are
discouraged. The focus of the zone is to help implement the open space goals and policies of the Metro's general plan in
regards to the protection of natural open space.




                                                                6
19.20.170: PERMITTED USES IN THE OS-N SUBDISTRICT:

The following uses may be conducted in the OS-N subdistrict:

Accessory uses to approve permitted and conditional uses, such as, but not limited to, restrooms, parking lots and other
buildings and activities which are incidental and subordinate to the principal permitted use on the premises.

Botanical gardens.

Community gardens.

Conservation areas, including, but not limited to, watershed areas, wildlife refuges, wetlands, woodlands, and riparian areas.

Nature or zoological exhibits and facilities.

Open air theaters, amphitheaters, and meeting places. Trails, trailheads, and walkways.




19.20.180: CONDITIONAL USES IN THE OS-N SUBDISTRICT:

Parks for the preservation of natural open space and trails. Public, quasi-public facilities.




                                                                7
Chapter 19.54 - FA-2.5, FA-5, FA-10 AND FA-20 FOOTHILL AGRICULTURE ZONES

* Previously recommended for removal from the ordinance



19.54.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the foothill agricultural zones is to permit the development of the foothill areas of the
Metro for rural residential, limited agricultural, limited animals and other specified uses, to the extent such
development is compatible with the natural environment of these areas, particularly the natural slopes,
vegetation, and fragile soils.




19.54.020 - Permitted uses.

     The following uses are permitted in the FA zones subject to meeting all applicable requirements set
forth in this chapter and ordinance relating to site and lot dimensions, development standards, and other
regulations.
     A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incident to a permitted use;
     B.   Agriculture, as defined in Section 19.04.020 of this title;
     C.   Animals and fowl for family food production, as defined in Section 19.04.235; household pets; a
          maximum of four horses for private use only;
     D.   Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
     E.   Home day care/preschool for six or fewer children subject to the conditions set forth in Section
          19.04.293;
     F.   Residential facility for persons with a disability;
     G.   Single-family dwelling;
     H.   Wireless telecommunication facilities, provided:
          1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is a wall-mounted or roof-mounted facility, and
          2.   The facility is mounted on a nonresidential building, and
          3.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as part of the
               required site plan, and
          4.   All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless Telecommunications
               Facilities," are satisfied.




19.54.030 - Conditional uses.

    The following conditional uses are subject to the requirements of this chapter and subject to the
conditions, criteria, and approval procedures set forth in Chapter 19.84, "Conditional Uses."
     A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a conditional use;
     B.   Bed and breakfast homestay, provided:
          1.   The access to the site and the on-site parking are available for use and maintained, including
               snow removal, throughout the entire year, and



                                                        8
          2.   An approved drinking water supply and wastewater disposal system is available that is
               capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and is approved by the health
               department prior to issuance of a license;
     C.   Home day care/preschool, for no fewer than seven nor more than twelve children, subject to the
          conditions set forth in Section 19.04.293;
     D.   Pigeons, subject to health department health regulations;
     E.   Planned unit development subject to the conditions and requirements set forth in Chapter 19.78,
          "Planned Unit Developments";
     F.   Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
     G.   Public and quasi-public use;
     H.   Residential facility for elderly persons;
     I.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which building must be removed
          upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not removed
          within ninety days upon completion of construction work and thirty days after notice, the building
          will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner;
     J.   Wireless telecommunication facilities, as that term and all related terms are defined in Section
          19.83.020, provided:
          1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is either a wall-mounted, roof-mounted, or monopole
               facility. Facilities located on lattice towers are prohibited, and
          2.   Any grading for the facility, including access roads and trenching for utilities, shall comply
               with the Uniform Building Code, and
          3.   The facility complies with the requirements for development set forth in the foothills and
               canyons overlay zone, Chapter 19.72, including development standards for grading, wildlife
               habitat protection, tree and vegetation protection, natural hazards, and utilities, and
               standards for establishing limits of disturbance, and
          4.   Site placement and facility color shall be carefully considered to blend in with the natural
               surroundings, and
          5.   Continuous outside lighting is prohibited unless required by the FAA for monopole facilities,
               and
          6.   The maximum height for monopole facilities shall be sixty feet, and
          7.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as part of the
               required site plan and shall show all structures including but not limited to monopoles,
               antennas, and equipment buildings, and
          8.   All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless Telecommunications
               Facilities," are satisfied.




19.54.040 - Lot area, lot width, density, and slope regulations.

A.   Lot Width, Lot Area, and Density Requirements. In the foothill agricultural zones, the minimum lot area
     may include private rights-of-way, except that the area in the right-of-way shall not exceed twenty-five
     percent of the minimum lot area:




                                                      9
                                                                            Maximum Residential Density
  District        Minimum Lot Width             Minimum Lot Area
                                                                            (dwelling units per gross area)

  FA-2.5                250 feet                     2.5 acres                1 d.u. per 2.5 gross acres

     FA-5               300 feet                         5 acres               1 d.u. per 5 gross acres

     FA-10              300 feet                     10 acres                  1 d.u. per 10 gross acres

     FA-20              300 feet                     20 acres                  1 d.u. per 20 gross acres




B.     Measurement of Lot Width. The minimum lot width of any lot shall be measured at a distance of fifty
       feet from the front lot line.
C.      Slope Requirements. All development in the FA zones shall be subject to the slope protection
       standards set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030B, "Slope Protection
       Standards" and Section 19.72.030D, "Streets/Roads and General Site Access."




19.54.050 - Limits of disturbance/setbacks.

     Because of the unique nature of the soils and topography in the foothill areas, limits of disturbance
and setbacks for permitted uses including single-family dwellings and accessory structures in the FA zones
shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by the development services director. Limits of disturbance
and setbacks for conditional uses shall be as approved by the planning commission upon the
recommendation of the development services director (see Chapter 19.72). All determinations of limits of
disturbance shall be subject to the conditions and criteria set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone,
Section 19.72.040, "Establishment of limits of disturbance."




19.54.060 - Building height.

A.     Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed the following
       heights:
       1.    Thirty feet on property where the original slope exceeds fifteen percent or the property is located
             in the foothills and canyons overlay zone. For purposes of this section, the slope shall be
             determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation
             on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the building or structure. The box
             shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around the
             foundation line of the building or structure. The elevation shall be determined using a certified
             topographic survey with a maximum contour interval of two feet.
       2.    Thirty-five feet on all other properties.
       3.    No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.     Accessory Buildings.




                                                             10
     1.   No building which is accessory to a single-family dwelling shall exceed twenty feet in height. For
          each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set back from property lines
          an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.




19.54.070 - Natural hazards.

      Construction of permanent structures in the FA zones in areas subject to natural hazards, including
floods, landslides, unstable soils, and avalanches, shall be subject to the requirements and limitations set
forth in Chapter 19.74, "Floodplain Hazard Regulations," and Chapter 19.75, "Natural Hazard Areas."




19.54.080 - Soils reports.

     Because of the fragile nature of the soils in some areas of the foothills within the FA zones, the
development services director or planning commission may require the applicant to submit a soils report
prepared by a qualified soils engineer to verify the suitability of soils for the intended use. If the property is
subject to the requirements set forth in Section 19.54.070 of this chapter, the soils report may be combined
with any required natural hazards report.




19.54.090 - Grading.

     To eliminate the possibility of erosion and unsightly scars on the foothill slopes, grading shall be
permitted only in conformance with the standards and limitations set forth in the foothills and canyons
overlay zone, Section 19.72.030C, "Grading Standards."




19.54.100 - Tree and vegetation protection.

    Removal of trees or natural vegetation shall not be permitted except in conformance with the standards
and requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030H, "Tree and
Vegetation Protection."




19.54.110 - Maintenance of animals and fowl.

     Animals and fowl shall be maintained in such a way to prevent dust, odors, loss of vegetation and loss
of topsoil due to erosion. In some areas due to the fragile soils and sparse vegetative cover, the planning
commission may require that all animals and fowl are kept in an enclosed area. At the time any building
permit is applied for, the planning commission may designate the areas of the lot suitable for maintenance
of animals and fowl.




19.54.120 - Utilities.




                                                       11
    All utilities in the FA zones shall be placed underground, except as may be provided for in Chapter
19.79, "Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations."




19.54.130 - Building location, construction and design.

     All buildings and accessory structures in the FA zones, including single-family dwellings, shall be
located, constructed, and designed in compliance with the development standards set forth in the foothills
and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030, "Development standards," and in Chapter 19.73 of this title,
"Foothills and Canyons Site Development and Design Standards."




19.54.140 - Site development plan approval.

      All development in the FA zone, including single-family dwellings, shall be approved prior to issuance
of any building permits pursuant to the site development plan approval process and requirements set forth
in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.050, "Approval procedures for development in the
foothills and canyons overlay zone."




19.54.150 - Applicability to lots of record and waivers from slope requirements.

A.   Applicable to Lots of Record. All standards and requirements for development in the FA zones as set
     forth in this chapter shall apply to development on lots and in subdivisions that were recorded prior to
     the enactment date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
B.   Lots of Record—Waivers from Slope Requirements. For properties in the FA zones also located in the
     foothills and canyons overlay zone (see Chapter 19.72), the planning commission may waive grade
     requirements for streets/roads and slope protection requirements for lots of record and lots and plans
     of subdivisions that were approved prior to the enactment of Chapter 19.72, provided the conditions
     and criteria set forth in Section 19.72.060A are satisfied.




Chapter 19.55 - MD-1 AND MD-3 MIXED DEVELOPMENT ZONES

* Previously recommended for removal from the ordinance



19.55.010 - Purpose of provisions.

      The purpose of the mixed use development zone is to provide a variety of uses (limited commercial,
office and residential) as an appropriate transition between high-traffic arterial streets and nearby residential
uses. This district is intended to ensure compatibility of new development and residential conversions with
existing and future residential development. It is also intended to ensure as well as encourage assemblage
of properties in a unified plan with a coordinated and harmonious development which will promote
outstanding design without unsightly and unsafe strip commercial development. Specific measures to
mitigate negative impacts of mixed use developments include standards for perimeter walls, vehicular
access, lighting, signage, etc., which will be required at the time of design and site plan approval.
Landscaping shall be as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.




                                                       12
19.55.020 - Design and site plan approval.

     Design and site plan approval including, but not limited to, architecture, building materials, lighting,
signage, vehicular access and noise for all development in the MD-1 and MD-3 zones is required by the
planning commission as a conditional use pursuant to the requirements of Sections 19.84.020 through
19.84.130. Landscaping shall be as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.




19.55.030 - Permitted uses.

A.   Permitted uses in the MD-1 zone include:
          — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted use or a conditional use;
          — Agriculture;
          — Antique shop;
          — Art gallery;
          — Art needlework shop;
          — Art shop and/or artist supply;
          — Bank or financial institution;
          — Barber shop;
          — Beauty shop;
          — Bed and breakfast homestay;
          — Boardinghouse;
          — China and/or silver shop;
          — Copy service;
          — Floral shop;
          — Gift shop;
          — Greeting card sales;
          — Handicraft shop;
          — Hobby and/or crafts shop;
          — Home occupation;
          — Household pets;
          — Key and lock service;
          — Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;
          — Medical, optical and dental labs;
          — Notions;
          — Office, business or professional;
          — Optometrist and/or oculist;
          — Parking lot;



                                                     13
         — Photographer;
         — Public and quasi-public uses;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons;
         — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
         — Stationery shop;
         — Tailor shop;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work.
B.   Permitted uses in the MD-3 zone include:
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted use or a conditional use;

         — Agriculture;
         — Antique shop;
         — Art gallery;
         — Art needlework shop;
         — Art shop and/or artist supply;
         — Bank or financial institution;
         — Barber shop;
         — Beauty shop;
         — Bed and breakfast homestay;
         — Boardinghouse;
         — Bookstore;
         — China and/or silver service;
         — Copy service;
         — Floral shop;
         — Gift shop;
         — Greeting card sales;
         — Handicraft shop;
         — Health food store;
         — Hobby and/or crafts shop;
         — Household pets;
         — Key and lock service;
         — Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;
         — Medical, optical and dental labs;
         — Notions;
         — Office, business or professional;
         — Office supply;
         — Optometrist and/or oculist;




                                                       14
         — Parking lot;
         — Pharmacy;
         — Photographer;
         — Public and quasi-public uses;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons;
         — Stationery shop;
         — Tailor shop;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work;
         — Travel bureau.




19.55.040 - Conditional uses.

A.   Conditional uses in the MD-1 zone include:
         — Bed and breakfast inn; which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;
         — Bicycle shop;
         — Bookstore;
         — Class B beer outlet;
         — Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing agency;
         — Day care/preschool center;
         — Health food store;
         — Laundry, automatic self-help type;
         — Lodginghouse;
         — Nursery and greenhouse excluding retail sales;
         — Nursing home;
         — Planned unit development;
         — Private educational institution;
         — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
         — Reception center;
          — Residential uses with a maximum density of seven units/acre, including group dwellings,
     planned unit developments, apartments, multiple dwellings, etc.;
         — Restaurant, excluding fast-food or drive-through window;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Shared parking;
         — Shoe repair shop;
         — Short-term rental;
         — Tanning studio;




                                                       15
         — Veterinary, provided the operation is completely enclosed within an air-conditioned
     soundproofed building. The noise from the animals shall not be audible at the property line;
         — Wedding chapel.
B.   Conditional uses in the MD-3 zone include:
         — Bed and breakfast inn; which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;
         — Bicycle shop;
         — Bookstore;
         — Class B beer outlet;
         — Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing agency;
         — Day care/preschool center;
         — Gymnastics, dance, dramatic, cosmetic, modeling and art studios;
         — Health food store;
         — Laundry, automatic self-help type;
         — Lodginghouse;
         — Mortuary;
         — Music store;
         — Nursery and greenhouse;
         — Nursing home;
         — Planned unit development;
         — Private educational institution;
         — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
         — Reception center;
         — Residential uses with a maximum density of twelve units/acre, including group dwellings,
     planned unit developments, apartments, multiple dwellings, etc.;
         — Restaurant, excluding fast-food or drive-through window;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Shared parking;
         — Shoe repair shop;
         — Short-term rental;
         — Tanning studio;
         — Veterinary, provided the operation is completely enclosed within an air-conditioned
     soundproofed building. The noise from the animals shall not be audible at the property line;
         — Wedding chapel.




19.55.050 - Hours of operation.

     Commercial uses shall not be open for business before six a.m. or after eleven p.m.




                                                    16
19.55.060 - Businesses and uses—Conditions.

     The uses specified in this chapter for the MD-1 and MD-3 zones shall be permitted only under the
following conditions:
     A.   No manufacturing is allowed;
     B.   No outside storage of any stock, motor vehicles or other property is allowed except for two delivery
          vehicles three-quarter ton or smaller.




19.55.070 - Area and width.

     In the MD-1 and MD-3 zones the minimum lot area and width shall be as follows:
     A.   MD-1 Zone.
          1.   Minimum lot area: one acre;
          2.   Minimum lot width: two hundred feet.
     B.   MD-3 Zone.
          1.   Minimum lot area: three acres;
          2.   Minimum lot width: two hundred fifty feet.




19.55.080 - Yard requirements.

     In the MD-1 and MD-3 zones the minimum yard requirements for all main and accessory buildings are
as follows:
     A.   MD-1 Zone.
          1.   Front yard: thirty feet;
          2.   Side yard: thirty feet;
          3.   Rear yard: thirty feet.
     B.   MD-3 Zone.
          1.   Front yard: thirty feet;
          2.   Side yard: thirty feet;
          3.   Rear yard: thirty feet.
The planning commission may vary the yard requirements for conversion of an existing use to a mixed
development use.




19.55.090 - Building height.

A.   No building or structure located in an MD-1 zone shall contain more than one and one-half stories or
     exceed twenty feet in height.




                                                      17
B.   No building or structure located in an MD-3 zone shall contain more than three stories, except a
     building or structure located within fifty feet of a residential zone boundary line or a residential use
     shall not contain more than two stories.
C.   No residential building shall contain less than one story.
D.   The planning commission may vary the height requirements for conversion of an existing use to a
     mixed development use.




19.55.100 - Coverage restrictions.

    In the MD-1 and MD-3 zones no building or group of buildings with their accessory buildings, shall
cover more than forty percent of the area of the lot.




19.55.110 - Perimeter wall.

     All mixed use developments shall have a decorative tinted concrete or masonry wall on all rear and
side yards not fronting on a public street.
     All perimeter walls shall be a minimum of six feet high unless the planning commission requires a
higher wall as part of the conditional use approval.




19.55.120 - Landscaping.

     Landscaping shall be as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.




19.55.130 - Lighting.

     The maximum height of luminaries shall be eighteen feet unless the planning commission requires a
lower height as part of the conditional use approval. The light shall be low intensity, shielded from uses on
adjoining lots, and directed away from adjacent property in a residential zone or an adjacent residential
use. All parking luminaries, except those required for security, must be extinguished one hour after the end
of business hours. The exception for security lighting applies to twenty-five percent of the total luminaries
used, unless the planning commission approves a higher percentage as part of the conditional use
approval.




19.55.140 - Noise.

      The noise level emanating from any use or operation shall not exceed the limits in the health
department health regulation number twenty-one, or its successor, regarding noise control. The noise level
shall not in any case exceed five decibels above the ambient level of the area measured at the property
line. For the purposes of compliance with health regulation number twenty-one all properties located within
a mixed development zone shall be considered residential.




                                                     18
19.55.150 - Screening.

     When off-street parking areas are situated across the street from a property in a residential zone, a
masonry wall or berm a minimum of three feet in height shall be erected in the landscaped front yard or
landscaped side yard which faces on a street on corner lots to adequately screen the parking areas from
the residential properties.
B.   All ground-mounted mechanical equipment including, but not limited to, heating and air conditioning
     units, and trash receptacle areas shall be completely screened from surrounding properties by a
     masonry wall or shall be enclosed within a building.
C.   The design of all roof appurtenances including, but not limited to, air conditioning units, and mechanical
     equipment shall be approved by the planning commission to minimize visibility from on-site parking
     areas, adjacent public street and adjacent residentially zoned property.
D.   All utility connections shall be designed to be compatible with the architectural elements of the site so
     as not to be exposed except where necessary. Pad-mounted transformers and/or meter box locations
     shall be included in the site plan with an appropriate screening treatment. Power lines and other utility
     cables shall be installed underground where possible.




19.55.160 - Access.

     The number of access points along public streets shall be minimized by sharing and linking parking
areas with adjacent properties. Reciprocal ingress and egress, circulation and parking agreements shall be
required to facilitate the ease of vehicular movement between adjoining properties. On corner sites access
points shall be located as far from the corner as reasonably possible and in no case less than forty feet
from the point of intersection of the property lines. Vehicular circulation shall be designed to limit the
intrusion of traffic into residential areas, and minimize access on streets used by schoolchildren.




19.55.170 - Odor.

    No use shall be permitted which creates odor in such quantity as to be readily detectable beyond the
boundaries of the site.




19.55.180 - Design considerations.

      In order to meet the purposes of this chapter the planning commission shall consider the following
prior to approval of any plan:
     A.   Lots should be accumulated to provide the minimum lot area. Individual lots with an area smaller
          than the minimum lot area are not suitable for a mixed development.
     B.    The development shall provided on-site amenities and appropriate buffering to adjacent
          properties and uses.
     C.   The scale of the development shall be in character with the surrounding land uses.
     D.   Safe access shall be provided within the site and to public streets.
     E.   The development shall have a residential character if adjacent to residential areas.



                                                      19
19.55.190 - Consistency with general plan.

    Mixed development uses shall be consistent with the county general plan.




Chapter 19.56 - C-1 COMMERCIAL ZONE



19.56.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the C-1 zone is to provide areas in the metro township for neighborhood commercial
development.




19.56.020 - Commercial developments over twenty-one thousand square feet.

    Commercial developments in the C-1 zone over twenty-one thousand square feet shall follow the
conditional use permit procedure pursuant to Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130 of this title.




19.56.030 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the C-1 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Art needlework shop;
         — Art shop and/or artist supply;
         — Athletic goods store;
         — Baby formula service; baby diaper service; babysitter agency;
         — Bakery;
         — Bank;
         — Barbershop;
         — Beauty shop;
         — Bicycle shop;
         — Bookstore;
         — Cafeteria; catering establishment;
         — Candy store; confectionery;
         — China and/or silver shop;
         — Class A beer outlet;
         — Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing agency;




                                                  20
         — Clothing store (limited to a maximum of three thousand square feet of total floor area);
         — Florist shop;
         — Fruit or fruit juice store; fruit and/or vegetable stand;
         — Gift shop;
         — Greenhouse;
         — Health food store;
         — Ice cream shop;
         — Ice vendor units and/or reach-in ice merchandiser units; electrical icemaker units; ice storage
    of not more than five tons' capacity;
         — Key and lock service;
         — Laundry, automatic self-help type; laundry agency;
         — Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;
         — Medical and dental clinic and laboratories;
         — Newsstand;
         — Notions;
         — Nurses' agency;
         — Office, business or professional;
         — Optometrist and/or oculist;
         — Pet shop;
         — Photographer and/or sale of photographic supplies;
         — Popcorn and/or nut shop;
         — Radio and television sales and repair;
         — Shoeshine shop; shoe repair shop;
         — Stationery and greeting card sales;
         — Tailor shop.




19.56.040 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the C-1 zone include:
         — Ambulance service;
        — An apartment attached to and on the same parcel as an automobile service station and
    occupied by a manager or other employee;
         — Antique shop without outside display;
         — Automobile service center which is limited to tune-ups, lubrication and oil change, front-end
    alignment and brake repair, providing there is not outside storage of parts or material;
        — Automobile service station, excluding the repairing, painting or upholstering of motor vehicles;
    automatic automobile carwash, not to exceed four wash bays;




                                                      21
     — Baking, ice cream making and/or candy making incidental to retail sales serving not more than
three outlets in the metro township and employing not more than three persons;
    — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;
    — Class C fireworks store;
    — Copy service;
    — Day care/preschool center;
    — Delicatessen;
    — Dog and cat groomery, excluding overnight boarding;
    — Drugstore;
    — Frozen food locker incidental to a main grocery store or food business;
    — Grocery;
    — Home occupation;
    — Massage (every massage technician shall be licensed by the state);
    — Milk distributing station and sales of dairy products, excluding processing or bottling;
    — Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
         landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the metro township.
    B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure, a
         minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not obstructing
         access to the property.
    C.   Compliance with the sign ordinance.
    D.   The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
    E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
         intersecting streets.
    F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
    — Parking lot;
    — Planned unit development;
    — Private school;
    — Public and quasi-public use;
    — Reception center and/or wedding chapel;
    — Reiki business provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
    B.   Each practitioner that is not an employee of the business shall be registered as a Copperton
         Metro Township business owner.
    C.   Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the premises in a state of nudity or semi-
         nudity, as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this Code; and
    D.   The premises shall not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47b-501 of the Utah
         Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates Title 76 of the Utah
         Criminal Code.
    — Resource recycling collection point provided it meets the following requirements:



                                               22
          A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
               landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the metro township.
          B.   All material shall be contained within an enclosed container.
          C.   The structures or bins comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
          D.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
          E.   Maintenance of the site in a clean, neat and orderly manner.
          — Restaurant;
          — Shared parking;
          — Tanning studio;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters for a
     guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon completion or abandonment of the
     construction work. If such buildings are not removed within ninety days upon completion of
     construction, and thirty days after notice, the buildings will be removed by the metro township at the
     expense of the owner.




19.56.050 - Businesses and retail shops—Conditions.

    The stores, shops or businesses designated above in this chapter shall be retail establishments only,
and shall be permitted only under the following conditions:
     A.   Such business shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building, except for the parking and
          servicing of automobiles, and service to people in automobiles;
     B.    All products, whether primary or incidental, shall be sold at retail on the premises; no
          entertainment, except music, shall be permitted in cafes, confectioneries or refreshment stands;
     C.   All uses shall be free from objection because of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or other
          causes.




19.56.060 - Front yard.

     In C-1 zones, the minimum depth of the front yard for all buildings, structures, walls or fences more
than two feet in height shall be twenty feet.




19.56.070 - Side yard.

     None; except that wherever a building in the C-1 zone is located upon a lot adjacent to a residential
zone or agricultural zone boundary, there shall be provided a side yard of not less than ten feet on the side
of the building adjacent to the zone boundary line, and on corner lots the side yard which faces on a street
shall be not less than twenty feet.




19.56.080 - Rear yard.




                                                     23
     None; except that in the C-1 zone, on corner lots which rear upon the side yard of another lot in a
residential or agricultural zone, the minimum rear yard shall be ten feet.



19.56.090 - Building height.

      No building or structure in the C-1 zone shall contain more than two and one-half stories, or exceed
thirty-five feet in height.




19.56.100 - Coverage restrictions.

    In the C-1 zone, no building or structure or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall
cover more than sixty percent of the area of the lot.




Chapter 19.60 - C-V COMMERCIAL ZONE

* Previously recommended for removal from the ordinance



19.60.010 - Purpose of provisions.

      The purpose of the C-V zone is to provide for areas in appropriate locations where commercial centers
providing for the needs of tourists and travelers may be established, maintained and protected, subject to
conditional use approval by the planning commission. The regulations of this zone are designed to
encourage the provision of transient housing facilities, restaurants, service stations, and other commercial
activities providing for the convenience, welfare or entertainment of the traveler.




19.60.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the C-V zone include:
    A.    Accessory uses customarily incidental to a conditional and permitted use;
    B.    Agriculture.




19.60.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the C-V zone include:
         — Antique shop without outside display;
         — Any other establishment for the service of visitors, determined by the planning commission to
    be of the same general character as the above uses;
         — Art gallery;
         — Automobile service station, campground and travel trailer park;



                                                    24
          — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;
          — Class A beer outlet;
          — Class B beer outlet;
          — Class C fireworks store;
          — Handicraft shop;
          — Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:
          A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
               landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the county.
          B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure, a
               minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not obstructing
               access to the property.
          C.   Compliance with the sign ordinance.
          D.   The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
          E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
               intersecting streets.
          F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
          — Public or quasi-public use;
          — Recreation, commercial;
          — Restaurant; drive-in refreshment stand;
          — Restaurant liquor license;
          — Shared parking;
          — State-approved liquor and/or beer outlet on state-owned property;
          — Tourist court; motel; motor hotel.




19.60.040 - Board of health approval.

     Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit or site plan approval for all uses, regardless of size or
number of units, the applicant shall receive the written approval of the board of health certifying that all
health requirements have been satisfied and that the proposed construction will not damage the natural
watershed. In addition, developments of more than nine lots or more than nine units shall receive the written
approval of the State Division of Health certifying the culinary water system and the sewerage system. All
approvals shall be in accordance with the regulations of the State Division of Health relating to culinary
water supply and wastewater disposal.




19.60.050 - Building height.

     No building or structure in the C-V zone shall exceed three stories or thirty-five feet in height.




19.60.060 - Lot area, coverage and yard requirements.



                                                      25
    The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the C-V zone, except where increased for
conditional uses:

   Lot       Lot
                                                             Yard in Feet
  Area     Coverage

  (Sq.      (Max
                       Front                     Side                                  Rear
   Ft.)    Percent)


                                   None except when abutting an R       10 feet except when abutting an R
 10,000        40        20
                                  zone and then not less than 25 feet    zone then not less than 25 feet




19.60.070 - Maximum coverage.

    In the C-V zone, the maximum coverage for the aggregate of all buildings, paved surfaces and graded
areas shall be twenty-five percent of the site area.




19.60.080 - Natural hazards.

      In the C-V zone, construction of permanent structures is not permitted in areas subject to hazards such
as floods, landslides and avalanches.




19.60.090 - Grading—Permit required.

       In C-V zones, to eliminate the possibility of erosion and unsightly scars on the mountain slopes, cut-
and-fill shall be controlled by standards adopted by the planning commission, which are based on slope
and grade analysis, for construction of access roads, private rights-of-way, and building sites. All cut-and-
fill surfaces shall be replanted and maintained to negate the possibility of erosion and scarring. All grading
shall also comply with the requirements of the Uniform Building Code as adopted in Chapter 15.08, Uniform
Building Code.




19.60.100 - Natural vegetation.

     Natural vegetation shall not be removed in the C-V zone unless the site plan and the plan for vegetation
clearing is approved by the planning commission for conditional uses, or the director for permitted uses,
subject to all the provisions of this chapter.




19.60.110 - Building materials.



                                                        26
    In the C-V zone, buildings shall be designed to preserve the natural beauty of the canyon area. Only
those building materials which will blend harmoniously into the natural environment shall be permitted. The
use of wood, stone and other harmonious materials is encouraged, and the use of bland, unpainted
concrete blocks and unpainted metal is prohibited on exterior surfaces.




19.60.120 - Canyon areas—Special provisions applicable.

    Developments in the C-V zone located in canyon areas of the Metro shall be subject to the provisions
of Sections 19.10.040 through 19.10.170 of this title, and as set out in Sections 19.60.130 through
19.60.180 of this chapter.




19.60.130 - Canyon areas—Lot area, width and slope.

     In C-V zones, the minimum lot area shall be one-half acre. The minimum width of any lot shall be one
hundred feet. Construction is not permitted where the slope exceeds thirty percent. Roads and other
vehicular routes shall not cross property having a slope greater than thirty percent unless, after review by
the planning commission, it is determined that:
     A.   Appropriate engineering measures can be taken to minimize the impact of the cuts and fills,
          consistent with the purpose of this chapter; and
     B.   The environment and aesthetics of the area will not be significantly affected.




19.60.140 - Canyon areas—Yards.

    In the C-V zone, because of the unique nature of the topography and climatic conditions of the canyon
areas, the side, rear and front yard requirements will be determined on an individual basis by the planning
commission for conditional uses, and by the director for single-family dwellings.




19.60.150 - Canyon areas—Building height.

A.    In the C-V zone, the unique nature of the topography, vegetation, soils, climatic and aesthetic
     characteristics of the canyons defy uniform regulations, and require that the heights of structures be
     determined on an individual basis. Maximum and minimum heights of all conditional uses shall be
     determined by the planning commission based on a careful analysis of the following:
     1.   Natural setting;
     2.   Relationship to other structures and open spaces;
     3.   Contour intervals and topographic features;
     4.   Height, density and type of vegetation;
     5.   Scenic vistas;
     6.   Other elements deemed appropriate to ensure that the provisions of Section 19.10.010 are met.
B.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Title no single family dwelling shall exceed the
     following height:




                                                     27
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen percent or
          the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be determined using a line
          drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of elevation on the perimeter of a
          box which encircles the foundation line of the single-family dwelling. Said box shall extend for a
          distance of fifteen feet or to the property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of the
          single-family dwelling. The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with
          a maximum contour interval of two feet.
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
     3.   No single-family dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.




19.60.160 - Canyon areas—Maximum density.

     In the C-V zone, the maximum density for residential dwelling units, except single-family dwellings,
shall be as follows:

   Zone                                             Maximum Density

  FM-10                       10 dwelling units or 20 guestrooms per net developable acre

  FM-20                       20 dwelling units or 40 guestrooms per net developable acre




19.60.170 - Canyon areas—Off-street parking.

     In the C-V zone, for conditional uses the planning commission shall determine the number of parking
spaces required. For permitted uses, the director shall determine the number of parking spaces required.
However, the minimum requirements of Chapter 19.80 shall be provided, except that for hotels and resort
hotels, one-half parking space shall be provided for each guestroom. The planning commission may modify
the requirements of Sections 19.80.060 through 19.80.120.




19.60.180 - Canyon areas—Utilities.

     In the C-V zone, all utilities shall be placed underground.




19.60.200 - Lots of record.

      The planning commission for conditional uses and the development services director for permitted
uses may waive the slope requirements of this chapter for legal lots of record and subdivisions in the C-V
zone which were approved by the planning commission prior to the enactment of the ordinance from which
this section derives if such waiver would not be injurious to health, safety and the general public welfare of
the inhabitants of Copperton Metro Township and is consistent with the purpose of this title.




                                                      28
Chapter 19.62 - C-2 COMMERCIAL ZONE



19.62.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the C-2 zone is to provide areas in the metro township for community commercial
development.




19.62.020 - Commercial developments over one acre.

    Commercial developments in the C-2 zone over one acre must follow the conditional use permit
procedure pursuant to Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130 of this title.




19.62.030 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the C-2 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Addressograph shop;
         — Antique shop without outside display;
         — Archery shop and range, providing the use is conducted within a completely enclosed building;
         — Art needlework shop;
         — Art shop and/or artist supply;
         — Athletic goods store;
         — Automobile service station;
         — Awning sales and repair;
         — Baby formula service; baby diaper service; babysitter agency;
         — Bakery;
         — Bank;
         — Barbershop;
         — Beauty shop;
         — Bicycle shop;
         — Blueprinting and/or photostating;
         — Bookstore;
         — Bowling alley, including billiard and/or pool tables;
         — Bus terminal;
         — Cafeteria; catering establishment;




                                                     29
— Candy store; confectionery;
— Carbonated water sales;
— Class A beer outlet;
— Class B beer outlet;
— Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing;
— Clothing store;
— Coal and fuel sales office;
— Costume rental;
— Dancing;
— Department store;
— Delicatessen;
— Dog training, provided all training is within a completely enclosed building;
— Dramatics school;
— Drapery and/or curtain store;
— Dressmaking;
— Drive-in refreshment stand;
— Drugstore;
— Dry goods store;
— Electrical and heating appliances and fixture sales and repair;
— Egg candling and sales;
— Employment agency;
— Film exchange;
— Five-and-ten cent store;
— Fix-it shop;
— Flooring or floor repair shop;
— Florist shop;
— Fountain equipment supply;
— Frozen food lockers;
— Fruit or fruit juice store; fruit and/or vegetable stand;
— Fur sales, storage and/or repair;
— Furniture sales and/or repair;
— Gift shop;
— Greenhouse and nursery; plant materials; soil and lawn service;
— Grocery;
— Gunsmith;
— Gymnasium;
— Hardware store, not including the sale of lumber;



                                             30
    — Health food store;
    — Hobby and/or crafts shop;
    — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
    — Hospital supplies;
    — House cleaning and repair; house equipment display;
    — Ice cream shop;
     — Ice vendor units and/or reach-in ice merchandiser units; electrical icemaker units; ice storage
of not more than five tons' capacity;
    — Insulation sales;
    — Interior decorating store;
    — Jewelry store;
    — Janitorial service;
    — Key and lock service;
    — Laundry, automatic self-help type; laundry agency;
    — Leather goods sales;
    — Linen shop;
    — Luggage shop;
    — Machine tools sales;
    — Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;
    — Medical and dental clinic and laboratory;
    — Milk distributing station and sale of dairy products, excluding processing or bottling;
    — Military store;
    — Mobile lunch agency;
    — Monument sales, retail;
    — Motorboat sales;
    — Music store;
    — Newsstand;
    — Notions;
    — Novelty shop;
    — Numismatic shop; gold, silver and platinum dealer;
    — Nurses' agency;
    — Office, business or professional; office supply; office machines sales and repair;
    — Oil burner shop;
    — Optometrist and/or oculist;
    — Ornamental iron, sales only;
    — Painter and/or paint store;
    — Pest extermination and control office;




                                               31
         — Pet shop;
         — Photographer and/or sale of photographic supplies;
         — Popcorn and/or nut shop;
         — Radio and television sales and repair and/or station;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons;
         — Restaurant;
         — Roofing sales;
         — Safe sales;
         — Secondhand shop;
         — Shoe shop; shoeshine shop; shoe repair shop;
         — Sewing machine shop;
         — Stationery and greeting card sales;
         — Swimming pool;
         — Tailor shop;
         — Taxidermist;
         — Taxi stand;
         — Tire shop, sales only;
         — Theater, indoor;
         — Tobacco shop;
         — Towel and linen supply service;
         — Travel bureau;
         — Upholstery shop;
         — Variety store;
         — Wallpaper store;
         — Weather-stripping shop.




19.62.040 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the C-2 zone include:
         — Agency for the sale of new motor vehicles, trailers and campers, including the incidental sale
    of used motor vehicles, trailers and campers, provided this use is incidental and located on the same
    property as the primary use of new motor vehicle sales; agency for the rental of motor vehicles, trailers
    or campers;
         — Ambulance service;
         — Apartments for elderly persons;
         — Arcade, not to be located within a one thousand foot distance, via the most direct pedestrian
    route, of the property line of any school or private educational institution having an academic
    curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools. For purposes of measuring distance, a




                                                       32
pedestrian route shall not include a route which requires crossing a physical barrier such as a fence,
canal or freeway, or include trespassing across private property.
     — Athletic club and/or health club;
     — Automobile repair, including incidental body and fender work, painting and
     upholstering and/or welding; automatic automobile wash;
     — Automobile service center, which is limited to tune-ups, lubrication and oil change, front-end
alignment, brake repair, and muffler repair, providing there is not outside storage of parts or materials;
     — Baking, ice cream making and/or candy making;
     — Bath and massage (every massage technician shall be licensed by the state);
     — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;
     — Cat and dog groomery, excluding overnight boarding;
     — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
     — Check cashing, provided that each check cashing business shall be located a minimum
distance of six hundred feet from any other similarly licensed facility;
     — Class C fireworks store;
     — Copy service;
     — Day care/preschool center;
     — Golf course;
   — Hardware store, including the sale of lumber, providing all storage of lumber is within a
completely enclosed building;
     — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
     — Home occupation;
     — Hospital;
     — Hotel and apartment hotel;
     — Indoor firearms and/or archery range;
     — Mini-storage units, secondary to the main use of the parcel;
     — Mobile home park;
     — Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:
     A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
          landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the metro township.
     B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure, a
          minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not obstructing
          access to the property.
     C.   Compliance with the sign ordinance.
     D.   The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
     E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
          intersecting streets.
     F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
     — Motel;




                                                 33
     — Multiple dwellings; group dwellings;
     — Neighborhood storage;
     — Open storage for recreational vehicles only (campers, snowmobiles, etc.), but not to include
the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap material, or for the
dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles or machinery, or parts
thereof, as in an impound lot or junkyard, etc.; and such use will be required to install a six-foot solid
visual barrier fence or masonry wall around the entire storage area (chain-link with slats is acceptable)
as a conditional use in the commercial C-2 zone, and as an accessory use only to a main use, such
as a service station, carwash or similar use. Gravel or grass surfacing will be allowed for the storage
area;
     — Package agency;
     — Parking lot;
     — Planned unit development;
     — Plumbing shop;
     — Printing shops;
     — Private nonprofit locker club;
     — Private post office box service;
     — Private school;
     — Public and quasi-public use;
     — Rail transit mixed-use, provided it meets the following requirements:
     A.   The planning commission shall determine the density based on the specific development
          proposal, site location and surrounding land uses.
     B.   The property is located within one-quarter mile of a rail station.
     C.    Buildings and impervious areas shall not cover more than eighty percent of the site.
     D.    Commercial uses shall be allowed on the first floor of buildings fronting on a public street.
     E.   Office uses shall be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on a public
          street.
     F.   Parking is not allowed between the building and the public street.
     G.   The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet and the side and rear yards shall be twenty feet
          minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two front yards.
     H.   The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation of the
          building must be built within ten feet of the build-to-line or as approved by the planning
          commission.
     I.   The planning commission shall determine the amount of parking required based on projected
           transit usage and other guidelines found in Section 19.80.090, "Planning Commission
           Exceptions."
     J.   All development in the rail transit mixed-use area shall conform to the Rail Transit Mixed-Use
          Development Guidelines adopted by the planning commission. The planning commission
          has the authority to modify or waive guidelines as necessary during development review.
     — Reception center and/or wedding chapel;
     — Recreation, commercial;
     — Reiki business provided it meets the following requirements:




                                                 34
    A.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
    B.   Each practitioner that is not an employee of the business shall be registered as a Copperton
         Metro Township business owner.
    C.   Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the promises in a state of nudity or semi-
         nudity, as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this Code; and
    D.   The premises shall not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47h-501 of the Utah
         Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates Title 76 of the Utah
         Criminal Code.
    — Rent-all store, provided that there is not outside storage;
    — Resource recycling collection point provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
         landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the metro township.
    B.   All material shall be contained within an enclosed container.
    C.   The structures or bins comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
    D.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
    E.   Maintenance of the site in a clean, neat and orderly manner.
    — Restaurant liquor license;
    — Seed and feed store;
    — Shared parking;
    — Sign-painting shop;
    — Single-family dwelling in conjunction with a service station;
    — State store;
    — Swap meets and flea markets within drive-in theaters or enclosed buildings;
    — Tanning studio;
    — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters for a
guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon completion or abandonment of the
construction work;
    — Theaters, outdoor, providing:
    A.   A solid fence or masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet shall be constructed on all
         sides.
    B.   Driveways and parking areas shall be provided with properly maintained dustless surfaces.
    C.   Automobile off-street storage areas for automobiles awaiting entrance to the theater shall
         have a capacity of at least fifteen percent of the number of automobile parking spaces
         provided inside the theater.
    D.   Minimum area for a single-screen theater shall be ten acres; minimum area for a two-screen
         theater shall be twelve acres.
    — Transfer company, provided trucks no larger than two tons' capacity are used;
    — Unoccupied model buildings for display, accessory to a sales office;
    — Veterinary, providing operation is completely enclosed within an air-conditioned building.




                                               35
19.62.050 - Businesses and uses—Conditions.

    The uses specified above in this chapter for the C-2 zone shall be permitted only under the following
conditions:
    A.    All manufacturing shall be done wholly within a completely enclosed building, and shall be
         incidental to and operated in connection with a use permitted in this chapter;
    B.   All uses shall be free from objections because of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or other
         causes.




19.62.060 - Lot area.

    In the C-2 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum lot area shall be not less than five thousand
         square feet for the first separate dwelling structure, with three thousand square feet for each
         additional separate dwelling structure, and with seven hundred fifty square feet additional for each
         additional dwelling unit in excess of one dwelling unit in each separate dwelling structure;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.




19.62.070 - Lot width.

    In the C-2 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum width of any lot shall be fifty feet at a distance
         twenty-five feet back from the front lot line;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.




19.62.080 - Front yard.

    In C-2 zones:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the front yard for dwellings and for private
         garages which have a minimum side yard of eight feet shall be twenty-five feet, or the average of
         the existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in no case less
         than fifteen feet. Other private garages and all accessory buildings other than private garages
         shall be located at least six feet in the rear of the main building.
    B.   Other Buildings. The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty feet.




19.62.090 - Side yard.

    In the C-2 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet, and
         the total width of the two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen feet, except that
         dwelling structures over thirty-five feet in height shall have one foot of additional side yard on




                                                    36
          each side of the building for each two feet such structure exceeds thirty-five feet in height. The
          minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except private garages and other
          accessory buildings located at least six feet in the rear of the main building shall have a minimum
          side yard of not less than one foot, provided that no private garage or other accessory building
          shall be located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard
          which faces on a street for both dwellings and accessory buildings shall be not less than twenty
          feet, or the average of existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed,
          but in no case less than fifteen feet, or be required to be more than twenty feet.
     B.    Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that wherever a building is located upon a lot
          adjacent to a residential land use, there shall be provided a side yard of not less than ten feet on
          the side of the building adjacent to the residential property, and on corner lots the side yard which
          faces on a street shall be not less than twenty feet.




19.62.100 - Rear yard.

     In the C-2 zone:
     A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the rear yard for any dwelling shall be
          thirty feet, and for accessory buildings one foot, provided that on corner lots which rear upon the
          side yard of another lot, accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such side
          yard;
     B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that on corner lots which rear upon the side yard
          of another lot in a residential or agricultural zone, the minimum rear yard shall be ten feet.




19.62.110 - Building height.

     No building or structure in the C-2 zone shall contain more than six stories, or exceed seventy-five feet
in height, and no dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.




19.62.120 - Coverage restrictions.

      In the C-2 zone, no building or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall cover more than
sixty percent of the area of the lot.




19.62.130 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments, multiple dwellings and dwelling groups shall be
determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following factors:
recommendations of metro township and non-metro township agencies; site constraints; compatibility with
nearby land uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan. Notwithstanding the above, the
planning commission shall not approve a planned unit development with density higher than the following:

                Single-family dwellings                                    7.0 units per acre




                                                      37
                Two-family dwellings                                  12.0 units per acre

               Three-family dwellings                                 15.0 units per acre

                Four-family dwellings                                 18.0 units per acre

                Multi-family dwellings                               25.0 units per acre*

                Rail transit mixed-use                              No maximum density




* Where supported by the community general plan, and found by the planning commission to be
compatible with land uses in the vicinity, multi-family residential development which incorporates
innovations of design, amenities, and features, may be approved by the planning commission for higher
densities than shown above, but shall in no case be higher than 32.0 units per acre.



Chapter 19.64 - C-3 COMMERCIAL ZONE



19.64.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the C-3 zone is to provide areas in the metro township for commercial uses,
warehousing and wholesale business.




19.64.020 - Commercial developments over one acre.

    Commercial developments in the C-3 zone over one acre must follow the conditional use permit
procedure pursuant to Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130 of this title.




19.64.030 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the C-3 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Addressograph shop;
         — Air conditioning and ventilating equipment sales and repair;
         — Antique shop without outside display;
         — Archery shop and range, providing the use is conducted within a completely enclosed building;
         — Art needlework shop;




                                                   38
     — Art shop and/or artist supply;
     — Athletic goods store;
     — Automobile service center, which is limited to tune-ups, lubrication and oil change, front end
alignment, brake repair and muffler repair, providing there is no outside storage of parts or materials;
     — Automobile service station;
     — Awning sales and repair;
     — Baby formula service; baby diaper service; babysitter agency;
     — Bakery;
     — Bank;
     — Barbershop;
     — Beauty shop;
     — Bicycle shop;
     — Blueprint and/or photostating;
     — Bookstore; bookbinding;
     — Bowling alley;
     — Bus terminal;
     — Cafeteria; catering establishment;
     — Candy store; confectionery;
     — Carbonated water sales;
     — Carpet and/or rug cleaning;
     — Class A beer outlet;
     — Class B beer outlet;
     — Clothes cleaning, dyeing;
     — Clothing stores;
     — Coal and fuel sales office;
     — Copy service;
     — Costume rental;
     — Dairy;
     — Dancehall;
     — Department store;
     — Delicatessen;
    — Dog and cat kennel and/or groomery: Boarding is limited to a maximum of twenty-one days
and must be within a completely enclosed air-conditioned sound proofed building with no outside runs.
Noise from the animals shall not be audible at the property line;
     — Dog training, provided all training is within a completely enclosed building;
     — Dramatics school;
     — Drapery and/or curtain store;
     — Dressmaking;



                                                39
— Drive-in refreshment stand;
— Drugstore;
— Dry goods store;
— Egg candling and sales;
— Electrical and heating appliances and fixture sales and repair;
— Employment agency;
— Film exchange;
— Five-and-ten cent store;
— Fix-it shop;
— Flooring or floor repair shop;
— Florist shop;
— Fountain equipment supply;
— Frozen food lockers;
— Fruit or fruit juice store; fruit and/or vegetable stand;
— Fur sales, storage and/or repair;
— Furniture sales and/or repair;
— Gift shop;
— Greenhouse and/or nursery; plant materials; soil and lawn service;
— Grocery;
— Gunsmith;
— Gymnasium;
— Hardware store;
— Health food store;
— Hobby and/or crafts shop;
— Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
— Honey extraction;
— Hospital supplies;
— House cleaning and repair; house equipment display;
— Ice cream shop; ice cream manufacture;
— Ice manufacture, storage, and retail and wholesale sales;
— Insulation sales;
— Interior decorating store;
— Janitorial service;
— Jewelry store;
— Key and lock service;
— Laboratory;
— Laundry; laundry, automatic self-help type; laundry agency;



                                             40
— Leather goods sales;
— Linen shop;
— Luggage sales;
— Machine tool sales;
— Manicuring, pedicuring, and electrolysis of hair;
— Medical and dental clinic;
— Milk distributing station and sale of dairy products;
— Millinery store;
— Mobile lunch agency;
— Monument sales;
— Motorboat sales;
— Music store;
— Newsstand;
— Notions store;
— Novelty shop;
— Numismatic shop; gold, silver and platinum dealer;
— Office, business or professional; office supply; office machines sales and repair;
— Oil burner shop;
— Optometrist and/or oculist;
— Ornamental iron, sales only;
— Painter and/or paint store;
— Pawnshop;
— Pest extermination and control office;
— Pet shop;
— Photography shop and/or sale of photographic supplies;
— Plumbing shop;
— Popcorn and/or nut shop;
— Printing, lithographing and/or publishing shop;
— Radio and television sales and repair; radio and television station;
— Railway express;
— Residential facility for elderly persons;
— Restaurant;
— Roofing sales;
— Safe sales;
— Sales and storage of pipe;
— Secondhand store;
— Sewing machine shop;



                                              41
         — Shoe shop; shoeshine shop; shoe repair shop;
         — Sign-painting shop;
         — Stationery and greeting card sales;
         — Tailor shop;
         — Tanning studio;
         — Taxidermist;
         — Taxi stand;
         — Tire shop;
         — Theater, indoor;
         — Tobacco shop;
         — Towel and linen supply service;
         — Travel bureau;
         — Upholstery shop;
         — Variety store;
         — Veterinary;
         — Wallpaper store;
         — Warehouse, storage; wholesale business;
         — Weatherstripping shop.




19.64.040 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the C-3 zone include:
         — Agency for the sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles, trailers or campers;
         — Ambulance service;
         — Animal hospital;
         — Apartments for elderly persons;
         — Arcade, not to be located within a one thousand foot distance, via the most direct pedestrian
    route, of the property line of any school or private educational institution having an academic
    curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools. For purposes of measuring distance, a
    pedestrian route shall not include a route which requires crossing a physical barrier such as a fence,
    canal or freeway, or include trespassing across private property;
         — Assembly of medical supplies;
         — Athletic club and/or health club;
        — Automobile repair shop, including body and fender work, tire recapping and/or vulcanizing;
    automatic automobile wash;
         — Baking, ice cream making and/or candymaking;
         — Bath and massage (every massage technician shall be licensed by the state);
         — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting rooms;




                                                   42
    — Bottling works, soft drinks;
    — Boxing arena;
    — Building material sales;
    — Carpenter shop; cabinet shop;
    — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
     — Check cashing, provided that each check cashing business shall be located a minimum
distance of six hundred feet from any other similarly licensed facility;
    — Class C beer outlet;
    — Class C fireworks store;
    — Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the premises;
    — Day care/preschool center;
    — Electronic instruments assembling;
    — Golf course;
    — Hatchery;
    — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
    — Home occupation;
    — Hospital;
    — Hotel and apartment hotel;
    — Impound lot, providing:
    A.   A solid visual barrier fence or masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet shall be
         constructed on all sides.
    B.   No dismantling or demolition of automobiles or other vehicles shall be conducted on the
         premises.
    — Indoor firearms and/or archery range;
    — Knitting mill;
    — Liquor store;
    — Lumberyard;
    — Machinery installation and servicing;
    — Mobile home park;
    — Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
         landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the metro township.
    B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure, a
         minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not obstructing
         access to the property.
    C.   Compliance with the sign ordinance.
    D.   The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
    E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
         intersecting streets.




                                               43
F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
— Monument works;
— Motel;
— Multiple dwelling; group dwelling;
— Nightclub or social club;
— Outdoor chemical toilet rental;
— Package agency;
— Parking lot;
— Planned unit development;
— Private nonprofit locker club;
— Private post office box service;
— Private school;
— Public and quasi-public use;
— Rail transit mixed-use, provided it meets the following requirements:
A.   The planning commission shall determine the density based on the specific development
     proposal, site location and surrounding land uses.
B.   The property is located within one-quarter mile of a rail station.
C.    Buildings and impervious areas shall not cover more than eighty percent of the site.
D.    Commercial uses shall only occupy the first floor of buildings fronting a public street.
E.   Office uses shall be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on a public
     street.
F.   Parking is not allowed between the building and the public street.
G.   The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet and the side and rear yards shall be twenty feet
     minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two front yards.
H.   The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation of the
     building must be built within ten feet of the build-to-line or as approved by the planning
     commission.
I.   The planning commission shall determine the amount of parking required based on projected
      transit usage and other guidelines found in Section 19.80.090, "Planning Commission
      Exceptions."
J.   All development in the rail transit mixed-use area shall conform to the Rail Transit Mixed-Use
     Development Guidelines adopted by the planning commission. The planning commission
     has the authority to modify or waive guidelines as necessary during development review.
— Reception center and/or wedding chapel;
— Recreation, commercial;
— Reiki business provided it meets the following requirements:
A.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
B.   Each practitioner that is not an employee of the business shall be registered as a Copperton
     Metro Township business owner.




                                            44
         C.   Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the premises in a state of nudity or semi-
              nudity as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this Code; and
         D.   The premises shall not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47b-501 of the Utah
              Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates Title 76 of the Utah
              Criminal Code.
         — Rent-all stores;
         — Resource recycling collection point provided it meets the following requirements:
         A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
              landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the metro township.
         B.   All material shall be contained within an enclosed container.
         C.   The structures or bins comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
         D.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
         E.   Maintenance of the site in a clean, neat and orderly manner.
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Seed and feed store;
         — Sexually oriented business;
         — Shared parking;
         — State store;
         — Swap meets and flea markets within drive-in theaters or enclosed buildings;
        — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters for a
    guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon completion or abandonment of the
    construction work. If such buildings are not removed within ninety days upon completion of
    construction and thirty days after notice, the buildings will be removed by the metro township at the
    expense of the owner;
         — Theaters, outdoor, providing:
         A.   A solid fence or masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet shall be constructed on all
              sides.
         B.   Driveways and parking areas shall be provided with properly maintained dustless surfaces.
         C.   Automobile off-street storage areas for automobiles awaiting entrance to the theater shall
              have a capacity of at least fifteen percent of the number of automobile parking spaces
              provided inside the theater.
         D.   Minimum area for a single-screen theater shall be ten acres; minimum area for a two-screen
              theater shall be twelve acres.
         — Transfer company;
         — Used car lot.




19.64.050 - Businesses and uses—Conditions.

    The uses specified above in this chapter and the C-3 zone shall be permitted only under the following
conditions:
    A.   All manufacturing shall be done wholly within completely enclosed buildings.




                                                   45
    B.   All uses shall be free from objections because of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or other
         causes.




19.64.060 - Lot area.

    In the C-3 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum lot area shall be not less than five thousand
         square feet for the first separate dwelling structure, with three thousand square feet for each
         additional separate dwelling structure, and with seven hundred fifty square feet additional for each
         additional dwelling unit in excess of one dwelling unit in each separate dwelling structure;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.




19.64.070 - Lot width.

    In the C-3 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum width of any lot shall be fifty feet at a distance
         twenty-five feet back from the front lot line;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.




19.64.080 - Front yard.

    In C-3 zones:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the front yard for dwellings and for private
         garages which have a minimum side yard of eight feet shall be twenty-five feet, or the average of
         the existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in no case less
         than fifteen feet. Other private garages and all accessory buildings other than private garages
         shall be located at least six feet in the rear of the main building.
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.




19.64.090 - Side yard.

    In the C-3 zone:
    A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet, and
         the total width of the two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen feet, except that
         dwelling structures over thirty-five feet in height shall have one foot of additional side yard on
         each side of the building for each two feet such structure exceeds thirty-five feet in height. The
         minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except private garages and other
         accessory buildings located at least six feet in the rear of the main building shall have a minimum
         side yard of not less than one foot, provided that no private garage or other accessory building
         shall be located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard
         which faces on a street for both dwellings and accessory buildings shall be not less than twenty




                                                     46
          feet, or the average of existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed,
          but in no case less than fifteen feet, or be required to be more than twenty feet.
     B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that wherever a building is located upon a lot
          adjacent to a residential zone or agricultural zone boundary, there shall be provided a side yard
          of not less than ten feet on the side of the building adjacent to the zone boundary line, and on
          corner lots the side yard which faces on a street shall be not less than twenty feet.




19.64.100 - Rear yard.

     In the C-3 zone:
     A.   Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the rear yard for any dwelling shall be
          thirty feet, and for accessory buildings one foot, provided that on corner lots which rear upon the
          side yard of another lot, accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such side
          yard;
     B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that on corner lots which rear upon the side yard
          of another lot in a residential or agricultural zone, the minimum rear yard shall be ten feet.




19.64.110 - Building height.

     No building or structure in the C-3 zone shall contain more than six stories, or exceed seventy-five feet
in height, and no dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.




19.64.120 - Coverage restrictions.

      In the C-3 zone, no building or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall cover more than
sixty percent of the area of the lot.




19.64.130 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments, multiple dwellings and dwelling groups shall be
determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following factors:
recommendations of metro township and non-metro township agencies; site constraints; compatibility with
nearby land uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan. Notwithstanding the above, the
planning commission shall not approve a planned unit development with density higher than the following:

                Single-family dwellings                                    7.0 units per acre

                 Two-family dwellings                                     12.0 units per acre

                Three-family dwellings                                    15.0 units per acre




                                                      47
                Four-family dwellings                                  18.0 units per acre

                Multi-family dwellings                                 25.0 units per acre*

                Rail transit mixed-use                                No maximum density




* Where supported by the community general plan, and found by the planning commission to be
compatible with land uses in the vicinity, multi-family residential development which incorporates
innovations of design, amenities and features, may be approved by the planning commission for higher
densities than shown above, but shall in no case be higher than 32.0 units per acre.

    Survey Bulletin 49) or other appropriate references. Avalanche hazard reports must be prepared by
        an experienced avalanche expert, and shall include the avalanche expert's qualifications to
        perform the study (such as their experience in performing similar studies).
    G.   Other geologic hazard or engineering geology reports shall be prepared in accordance with Utah
         Geological Survey Miscellaneous Publication M, "Guidelines for Preparing Engineering Geologic
         Reports in Utah." All reports shall be signed by the preparer and include the qualifications of the
         preparer. Generally, these reports must be prepared, signed, and stamped by a qualified
         engineering geologist licensed in the State of Utah. However, reports co-prepared by a
         professional engineer must include the professional engineer's original stamp and signature.
    H.   All reports shall include, at a minimum:
         1.    A 1:24,000-scale geologic map (with reference) showing the surface geology, bedrock
              geology (where exposed), bedding attitudes, faults or other structural features, and the
              locations of any geologic hazards;
         2.   A detailed site map of the subject area showing any site-specific mapping performed as part
              of the geologic investigation, and including boundaries and features related to any geologic
              hazards, topography, and drainage. The site map must show the location and boundaries of
              the hazard(s), delineation of any recommended setback distances from hazard(s), and
              recommended location(s) for structures. Buildable and non-buildable areas shall be clearly
              identified. Scale shall be one inch equals two hundred feet or smaller.
         3.   Trench logs and test pit logs (scale: 1 inch equals 5 feet, or smaller), boring logs (scale: 1
              inch equals 5 feet, or smaller), aerial photographs, references with citations, and other
              supporting information, as applicable
         4.   Conclusions that summarize the characteristics of the geologic hazards, and that address
              the potential effects of the geologic conditions and geologic hazards on the proposed
              development and occupants thereof in terms of risk and potential damage.
         5.   Specific recommendations for additional or more detailed studies, as may be required to
              understand or quantify the hazard, evaluate whether mitigation measures are required, and
              evaluate mitigation options.
         6.    Specific recommendations for avoidance or mitigation of the effects of the hazard(s),
              consistent with the purposes set forth in Section 19.75.010. Design or performance criteria
              for engineered mitigation measures and all supporting calculations, analyses, modeling or
              other methods, and assumptions, shall be included in the report. Final design plans and
              specifications for engineered mitigation must be signed and stamped by a qualified
              professional geotechnical or structural engineer, as appropriate.




                                                    48
     7.   Evidence on which recommendations and conclusions are based shall be clearly stated in
          the report.
I.   Additional or more detailed studies may be required, as recommended by the report or as
     determined by the Metro township Geologist, to understand or quantify the hazard, or to evaluate
     whether mitigation measures recommended in the report are adequate.




                                               49
