                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.pwpds.slco.org



        Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                    Tuesday, March 12, 2019 6:00 P.M.

Location
BINGHAM CANYON LIONS CLUB
95 EAST HILLCREST STREET
COPPERTON, UTAH
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2019 (Continued)
    2) Approval of Minutes from the February 12, 2019 meeting.
    3) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances
    4) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                          ADJOURN




February 12, 2019                           Page 1 of 1       AGENDA – COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                           Planning and Development Services
                                           2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                           Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                           www.pwpds.slco.org




                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                      COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                 Tuesday, February 12, 2019 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 42 minutes                        *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 2                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                     County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Green

                                               ATTENDANCE

                               Public     Business
        Commissioners                                Absent                                                 Public      Business
                                Mtg         Mtg                             Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                             Mtg          Mtg
         Ranuta Alder                        x
         Vern Winkler                        x                               Curtis Woodward                                 x
          Ryan Taylor                        x                                 Wendy Gurr                                    x
      Doug Green (Chair)                     x
     Mike Stone (Vice Chair)                           x

                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 6:03 p.m.
   1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2019
      Election of Chair
      Motion: To continue to the March 12th meeting.
             Motion by:
             2nd by:
             Vote:
        Election of Vice Chair
        Motion: To continue to the March 12th meeting.
               Motion by:
               2nd by:
               Vote:
   2) Approval of Minutes from the January 15, 2019 meeting
      Motion: To approve minutes from the January 15, 2019 meeting as presented.
            Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
            2nd by: Commissioner Alder
            Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
   3) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances

        Commissioner Winkler said last couple times talked about ordinance for open areas, said South

Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – February 12, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                 Page 1 of 2
       Jordan is most favorable. Not making a recommendation, but it would be applied. Mr. Woodward
       said based on last months discussion, took South Jordan and cleaned up 19.20, purpose statement
       put Open Space Zones, OS-P and OS-N in the packet and is first thing, would be good to go. Put on
       for public hearing for recommendation, if you’d like officially passed along to council to pass.
       Commissioner Winkler said council will meet with Kennecott to discuss annexation that might go
       through and may need to look at other areas and need to talk about four different basic areas. One
       town should be old town, 8 acres of school property, tower area of 40 acres at the old football field,
       and new annexation to be on the same page and make some zoning decisions on the area. Have the
       open area statute available but haven’t talked about how it is applied. First open space, preservation
       and subdivision. Curtis said there is a grant for money to put in for general plan. Mr. Patrick said
       as far as annexation, trying to make it so there is growth in their land to the east. Commissioner
       Winkler said starting from the water tower and as far east to West Jordan boundary. Find out from
       the council about their meeting and how those four areas will be applied.

       Mr. Woodward explained the general plan process and creation of a steering committee.
       Commissioner Green said he doesn’t have a problem with Commissioner Winkler taking it to the
       council, he just wants to make sure there aren’t restrictions put on the property owners.
       Commissioner Winkler wanted to confirm the real master document lives on the zoning map.

       19.54 –
       Recommend to remove, but council can put it back in.

       19.55 –
       Recommend to keep in the ordinance, no changes.

       19.56 –
       Recommend to keep in the ordinance, no changes.

       19.60 –
       Recommend to keep in the ordinance, no changes.

       19.62 –
       Recommend to keep in the ordinance, no changes.

       19.64 –
       Recommend to keep in the ordinance, no changes.

       Commissioner Winkler said first paragraph on C-2 and C-3, commercial shouldn’t include family
       dwellings and could be 32 units per acre. Mr. Woodward said at trax station, ground floor retail
       and many stories.

   4) Other Business Items (as needed)
      No other business items to discuss.

                                        MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 7:45 p.m.




Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – February 12, 2019 – Meeting Summary               Page 2 of 2
                                          Planning and Development Services
                                          2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                          Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                          slco.org/development-services




                Ordinance Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission                     Meeting Date: March 12, 2019
Request: Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances
Planner: Curtis Woodward


                                            PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This month’s packet includes chapters from the zoning ordinance to continue where the commission left off last
month. At last month’s meeting, we discussed: open space zone, F-A, MD-1, MD-3, C-1, C-V, C-2, C-3.




                                                    SUMMARY
Attached are the following chapters of the zoning ordinance for review:
Chapter 19.66 M-1 (Light Manufacturing)
Chapter 19.68 M-2 (Heavy Manufacturing)
Chapter 19.69 P-C (Planned Community)
Chapter 19.66 - M-1 MANUFACTURING ZONE



19.66.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the M-1 zone is to provide areas in the metro township for light industrial uses.




19.66.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the M-1 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Agriculture;
         — Animals and fowl for family food production;
         — Animal hospitals;
         — Assembly of medical supplies;
         — Boatbuilding;
         — Bottling works, soft drinks;
         — Bookbinding;
         — Carpenter shop; cabinet shop;
         — Carpet and rug cleaning and dyeing;
         — Class B beer outlet;
         — Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the premises;
         — Dairy;
         — Dog and cat kennel and/or groomery;
         — Egg candling, processing and sales;
         — Electric appliance and/or electronic instruments;
         — Express office;
         — Garage, public;
         — Honey extraction;
         — Ice manufacture and storage;
         — Knitting mill;
         — Laboratory;
         — Laundry;
         — Machine shop;
         — Manufacture and maintenance of the following:
         A.   Business machines,
         B.   Cameras and photographic equipment,
         C.   Electric and neon signs, billboards and/or commercial advertising structures,

                                                    2
         D.   Light sheet metal products, including heating and ventilating ducts and equipment, cornices
              and eaves, Venetian blinds, window shades and awnings,
         E.   Musical instruments,
         F.   Novelties,
         G.   Rubber and metal stamps,
         H.   Toys;
         — Meat products smoking, curing and packing, provided that no objectionable fumes are emitted;
         — Monument works;
         — Motor vehicles, trailers, bicycles and machinery assembling, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
    repairing, rentals, sales and reconditioning;
         — Office, business and/or professional;
         — Outdoor chemical toilet rental;
         — Parking lot;
         — Printing, including engraving and photoengraving;
         — Radio and television transmitting towers;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Recycling collection center operated within an enclosed building;
         — Rent-all stores;
         — Restaurant;
         — Sandblasting;
         — Service station;
         — Sign-painting shop;
         — Tire retreading and/or vulcanizing;
         — Transfer company;
         — Upholstering, including mattress manufacturing, rebuilding and renovating;
         — Used car lot;
         — Veterinary;
         — Warehouse;
         — Weaving;
         — Wholesale business.




19.66.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the M-1 zone include:
         — Airport;
         — Auction;
         — Automatic automobile wash;


                                                    3
     — Bank;
     — Battery manufacture;
     — Blacksmith shop;
     — Building material sales yard, including the sale of rock, sand, gravel and the like, as an
incidental part of the main business, but excluding concrete mixing, except as such concrete mixing is
necessary in the preparation and manufacture of any of the products specified in this section;
     — Class C fireworks store;
     — Coal, fuel and wood yards;
     — Contractors' equipment storage yard or rental of equipment used by contractors;
     — Day care/preschool center;
     — Drag strip racing;
     — Draying, freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
     — Electrical contractor;
     — Foundry, casting lightweight nonferrous metal without causing noxious odors or fumes;
    — Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacture, processing and/or sales, providing only nonanimal
products and byproducts are used;
     — Firearms and/or archery range;
     — Gymnasium;
    — Impound lot, providing there is no dismantling or demolition of automobiles or other vehicles
conducted on the premises;
     — Indoor firearms and/or archery range;
     — Manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging and treatment of the following products:
     A.   Bakery goods,
     B.   Candy,
     C.   Cosmetics,
     D.   Dairy products,
     E.   Pharmaceuticals,
     F.   Toiletries,
     G.   Food products, excluding the following: Fish, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, and the rendering
          of fat,
     H.   Pickles;
     — Manufacturing, compounding, assembling and treatment of articles of merchandise from the
following previously prepared materials: Bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fish,
glass, hair, horn, leather, paper, paint, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stones, rubber,
shell, straw, textiles, tobacco, wood or yarn;
     — Manufacture of brick, and all clay, ceramic, cinder, concrete, synthetic, cast-stone, plastic and
pumice stone products, including, in addition, the manufacture or fabrication of building blocks, tile or
pipe from raw material for use in building construction or for sewer or drainage purposes, and excluding
rock or gravel crushing of raw materials, except as such rock or gravel crushing of raw materials is
incidental to the manufacture or fabrication of the above-described products, and provided that such
crushing facilities shall be located not closer than two hundred feet to any property line;


                                                  4
         — Metal plating; metal anodizing; metal polishing;
         — Motion picture studio;
         — Package agency;
         — Planing mill;
         — Planned unit development;
         — Private school;
         — Public and quasi-public use;
         — Radio and television stations;
         — Recreation, commercial;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Sanitary landfill;
         — Sexually oriented business;
         — Shared parking;
         — Single-family dwelling constructed prior to the passage of the ordinance codified in this section,
    to be retained on a separate lot;
         — State store;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters for a
    guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon the completion or abandonment of
    the construction work;
         — Welding shop.




19.66.040 - Lot area.

    In the M-1 zone:
    A.   A single-family dwelling on the same lot with another use(s) allowed in the zone shall occupy a
         minimum area of five thousand square feet, separated from the other use(s) with a permanent
         fence;
    B.   Single-family dwellings retained on a separate lot from other use(s) shall be a minimum of twenty
         thousand square feet, exclusive of access rights-of-way;
    C.    Other uses: None;
    D.   Industrial developments over one acre must follow the conditional use permit procedure pursuant
         to Section 19.84.020 of this title.




19.66.050 - Lot width and yards.

    In the M-1 zone:
    A.   Single-family Dwelling on the Same Lot With Other Uses.
         1.   The required fence shall constitute the property line for the purpose of yard requirements
              where an actual property line does not exist.


                                                     5
          2.   The minimum side yard shall be five feet, and the total of the two required side yards' width
               shall not be less than sixteen feet. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall
               not be less than twenty feet.
          3.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall not be less than fifteen feet.
          4.   The width of the yard at any point shall be equal to, or greater than the maximum width of
               the dwelling, plus the required side yards.
     B.   Single-family Dwellings Retained on a Separate Lot.
          1.   The minimum side yard shall be five feet, and the total width of the two required side yards
               shall be not less than sixteen feet. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall
               not be less than twenty feet.
          2.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall be fifteen feet.
          3.   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty feet.
          4.   The minimum width of the lot shall be sixty feet.
          5.   Access shall be from a private right-of-way or public street with a minimum width of thirty
               feet.
     C.   Other Uses. None, except that no commercial or industrial building or structure shall be located
          closer than twenty feet to any street.




19.66.060 - Coverage restrictions.

    In the M-1 zone, no building, structure or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall cover
more than eighty percent of the area of the lot.




                                                      6
Chapter 19.68 - M-2 MANUFACTURING ZONE



19.68.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the M-2 zone is to provide areas in the metro township for heavy industrial uses.




19.68.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the M-2 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Agriculture;
         — Animal hospital;
         — Assembly of medical supplies;
         — Bag cleaning;
         — Blacksmith shop;
         — Blueprinting, photostating and duplicating;
         — Boatbuilding;
         — Boiler works;
         — Bookbinding;
         — Bottling works;
         — Breweries;
         — Carpenter shop; cabinet shop;
         — Carpet and rug cleaning and dyeing;
         — Cement, mortar, plaster or paving materials central mixing plant;
         — Class B beer outlet;
         — Coke ovens;
         — Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the premises;
         — Dairy;
         — Drive-it-yourself agency;
         — Dog and cat kennel and/or groomery;
         — Egg candling, processing and sales;
         — Electric appliance and/or electronic instruments assembling;
         — Employment office;
         — Express office;
         — Feed, cereal or flour mill;
         — Forage plant;
         — Foundry;

                                                   7
    — Gymnasium;
    — Honey extraction;
    — Ice manufacture and storage;
    — Impound lot, provided there is no dismantling or demolition of automobiles or other vehicles
conducted on the premises;
    — Knitting mill;
    — Laboratories;
    — Laundry;
    — Lithographing, including engraving and photoengraving;
    — Machine shop;
     — Manufacture, fabrication, assembly, canning, compounding, packaging, processing, treatment,
storage and/or maintenance of the following:
    A.    Airplanes and parts; automobiles and parts; alcohol,
    B.    Bakery goods; brass; business machines,
    C.    Candles; candy, cans, cameras and photographic equipment, including film; cast-stone
         products; celluloid; cement and cinder products; copper; ceramic products; clay products,
    D.    Dyestuffs,
    E.   Electric and neon signs, billboards and/or commercial advertising structures; emery cloth;
         excelsior,
    F.   Feathers; felt; fiber; fish; food products,
    G.    Glass; glucose; gypsum,
    H.    Hair; hardware,
    I.   Ink; iron,
    J.   Lampblack; linoleum; lime,
    K.    Machinery; malt; matches; meats; musical instruments,
    L.   Novelties,
    M.    Oilcloth; oiled rubber goods; oxygen,
    N.    Paper; paint; pulp; pickles; pottery; plaster; plaster of Paris; plastic,
    O.    Salt; sauerkraut; sheet metal; shellac; shoddy; shoe polish; soap and detergents; soda;
         starch; steel,
    P.    Terra cotta; tile; toys; turpentine,
    Q.    Varnish; vinegar,
    R.    Yeast;
    — Meat products smoking, curing and packing, providing that no objectionable fumes are emitted;
    — Metal plating; metal anodizing; metal polishing;
    — Monument works;
     — Motor vehicles, trailers, bicycles and machinery assembling, painting, upholstering, rebuilding,
repairing, rentals, sales, and reconditioning;
    — Office, business and/or professional;

                                                  8
         — Outdoor chemical toilet rentals;
         — Parking lot;
         — Printing and newspaper publishing;
         — Radio and television transmitting towers;
         — Recycling collection center operated within an enclosed building;
         — Rent-all store;
         — Restaurant;
         — Sandblasting;
         — Service station;
         — Sign-painting shop;
         — Tire retreading and/or vulcanizing;
         — Transfer company;
         — Upholstering, including mattress manufacturing, rebuilding and renovating;
         — Used car lot;
         — Veterinary;
         — Warehouse;
         — Weaving;
         — Wholesale business.




19.68.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the M-2 zone include:
         — Airport;
         — Auction;
         — Automatic automobile wash;
         — Bank;
         — Battery manufacture;
         — Building material sales yard, including the sale of rock, sand, gravel and the like as an
    incidental part of the main business;
         — Class C beer outlet;
         — Coal, fuel and wood yards;
         — Contractors' equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of equipment used by contractors;
         — Day care/preschool center;
         — Drag strip racing;
         — Draying, freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
         — Electrical contractor;



                                                    9
    — Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacturing, processing and/or sales, providing only
nonanimal products and byproducts are used;
     — Incinerator, nonaccessory, provided that no objectionable fumes and odors are emitted;
     — Junkyard, provided the use is fenced with a visual barrier;
     — Lumberyard;
    — Manufacture, processing, compounding, packaging, treatment and/or storage of the following
products:
     A.   Acetylene gas,
     B.   Pharmaceuticals,
     C.   Toiletries and/or cosmetics;
     — Manufacturing, compounding, assembling and treatment of articles of merchandise from the
following previously prepared materials: Bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fish,
glass, hair, horn, leather, paper, paint, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stones, rubber,
shell, straw, textiles, tobacco, wood or yarn;
     — Metals crushing for salvage; metals and metal products treatment and processing;
     — Oil or lubricating grease compounding;
     — Organic disposal site, minimum lot area fifty acres;
     — Package agency;
     — Petroleum refining and storage;
     — Planing mill;
     — Planned unit development;
     — Private school;
     — Public and quasi-public use;
     — Radio and television stations;
     — Railroad yards, shop and/or roundhouse;
     — Rock crusher;
     — Sanitary landfill;
     — Shared parking;
     — Single-family dwelling constructed prior to the passage of the ordinance codified in this section,
to be retained on the same lot with another use allowed in the zone;
     — Single-family dwelling constructed prior to the passage of the ordinance codified in this section,
to be retained on a separate lot;
    — Uses which follow, provided they are located at least three hundred feet from any zone
boundary:
     A.   Animal byproducts plants; offal or dead animal reduction or dumping,
     B.   Blast furnace,
     C.   Fat rendering,
     D.   Garbage,
     E.   Gravel pits; quarries; mines,



                                                  10
         F.   Manufacturing, processing, refining, treatment, distillation, storage or compounding of the
              following: Acid, ammonia, asphalt, bleaching powder and chlorine, bones, chemicals of an
              objectionable or dangerous nature, coal or wood, creosote, disinfectants or insecticides,
              fireworks or explosives, furs, gas, gelatine or size, glue, hides, ore, plastic, tallow, grease or
              lard, potash, pyroxylin, roofing or waterproofing materials, rubber or guttapercha, tar and
              wool,
         G.    Ore beneficiation,
         H.    Smelting or refining,
         I.   Steel or iron mill,
         J.   Stockyards.




19.68.040 - Lot area.

    In the M-2 zone:
    A.   A single-family dwelling on the same lot with another use(s) allowed in the zone shall occupy a
         minimum area of five thousand square feet, separated from the other use(s) with a permanent
         fence.
    B.   Single-family dwelling retained on a separate lot from other use(s) shall be a minimum of twenty
         thousand square feet, exclusive of access rights-of-way;
    C.    Other uses: None;
    D.   Industrial developments over one acre shall follow the conditional use permit procedure pursuant
         to Section 19.84.020 of this title.




19.68.050 - Lot width and yards.

    In the M-2 zone:
    A.   Single-family Dwelling on the Same Lot With Other Uses.
         1.   The required fence shall constitute the property line for the purpose of yard requirements
              where an actual property line does not exist.
         2.   The minimum side yard shall be five feet and the total width of the two required side yards
              shall be less than sixteen feet. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street shall not
              be less than twenty feet.
         3.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall not be less than fifteen feet.
         4.   The width of the yard at any point shall be equal to or greater than the maximum width of the
              dwelling plus the required side yards.
    B.   Single-family Dwelling Retained on a Separate Lot.
         1.   The minimum side yard shall be five feet, and the total width of the two required side yards
              shall not be less than sixteen feet. On the corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street
              shall not be less than twenty feet.
         2.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall be fifteen feet.
         3.   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty feet.
         4.   The minimum width of the lot shall be sixty feet.

                                                     11
          5.   Access shall be from a private right-of-way or public street with a minimum width of thirty
               feet.
     C.   Other Uses. None, except no commercial or industrial building or structure shall be located closer
          than twenty feet to any street.




19.68.060 - Coverage restrictions.

In the M-2 zone, no building, structure or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall cover
more than eighty percent of the area of a lot.




                                                    12
Chapter 19.69 - PLANNED COMMUNITY (P-C) ZONE

19.69.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of the Planned Community (P-C) Zone is to provide a regulatory tool which allows large
properties in the Copperton Metro Township to be developed in accordance with a specific plan designed
to achieve the following purposes:
    1. To promote and protect the public health, safety, and welfare;
    2. To implement the objectives and policies of the general plan;
    3. To safeguard and enhance environmental amenities and the quality of development;
    4. To attain the physical, social, and economic advantages resulting from comprehensive and orderly
       planned use of land resources;
    5. To lessen congestion and assure convenience of access;
    6. To secure safety from fire, flood, and other dangers;
    7. To provide for adequate light, air, sunlight, and open space;
    8. To promote and encourage conservation of scarce resources;
    9. To prevent overcrowding of land and undue concentration of population;
    10. To facilitate the creation of a convenient, attractive, and harmonious community with a desirable
        living and working environment with unique identity and character;
    11. To attain a desirable balance of residential and employment opportunities;
    12. To promote a pedestrian friendly environment that encourages transit and bicycle use;
    13. To expedite the provision of adequate and essential public services;
    14. To facilitate development within the Metro in accordance with the general plan by promoting high
        quality, innovative and creative development that includes a mixture of uses, heights and setbacks,
        varying densities and lot sizes and sufficient diversity of housing types to meet the full life cycle of
        housing needs of Metro residents, a harmonious variety of industrial and commercial uses, a high
        level of amenities, and preservation of open space;
    15. To promote more economical and efficient use of the land; and
    16. To provide a process for initiation, review, and regulation of large-scale comprehensively planned
        communities that affords the maximum flexibility to the developer within the context of an overall
        development program and specific, phased development plans coordinated with the provision of
        necessary public services and facilities.
      This chapter establishes an approval and entitlement process to promote inventive and efficient land
use patterns that would otherwise be difficult under typical zoning ordinances. Districts within a P-C Zone
may include neighborhoods, villages, town centers, business, research or educational campuses, and open
space with convenient pedestrian access among residential, commercial, office, retail, and recreational
areas. Individual structures within those districts may contain mixed uses. Permitted densities and intensity
of land use in villages and town centers may be higher than those permitted in neighborhoods.




19.69.020 - Land use districts.

     Each P-C Zone shall establish land uses and development patterns, densities, and standards unique
to that zone. Upon approval, through the process set forth in this chapter, the established land uses and
development patterns and densities shall be established pursuant to the P-C Zone plan and one or more


                                                      13
development agreements. The P-C Zone may consist of any number or combination of the following land
use districts that shall be identified in the community structure plan as provided in this chapter. Specific
land uses proposed in the P-C Zone may only be established in conformance with provisions of this chapter.
     "Neighborhood:" This category is designed for comparatively low density mixed use development that
emphasizes residential (single and multi-family) use, but also includes office, commercial, industrial,
public/semi-public, and recreation/open space uses. Neighborhood residential densities are anticipated to
range between four and eight units per gross acre.
     "Village:" This category is designed for medium density mixed use development that includes
residential (single and multi-family), office, commercial, industrial, public/semipublic, and recreation/open
space uses, without a predetermined emphasis on any single use. Village residential densities are
anticipated to range between nine and twenty units per gross acre.
      Town center: This category is designed for high density mixed use development that emphasizes
office, commercial and recreational uses, but also includes residential (single and multi-family), public/semi-
public, industrial and open space uses. Town center residential densities may exceed twenty units per gross
acre.
       Business, research, or educational campus: This category is designed to accommodate a campus
dedicated to a mixture of business uses: office, commercial, industrial, recreational, and public/semi-public
uses; or to an educational institution, including classrooms, laboratories, offices, housing, educational
facilities of all types and other related uses.
    Open space: Landscaped area, natural area or farmland that is established to provide and preserve
outdoor recreational, agricultural, or other similar uses. In addition to the open space district, areas of open
space may also be provided within the other land use districts as well.




19.69.030 - Permitted uses.

     The following uses may be conducted in all areas within the P-C Zone:
     •   Residential uses of all types on a range of lot sizes including: single family detached; single family
          attached; multifamily residential; town homes; loft apartments; residential units above ground floor
          retail, commercial, or office uses; and condominiums;
     •   Retail, service, office, hotel, restaurant, entertainment, and all other commercial uses of any type;
     •   Mix of permitted uses (including office/commercial, office/residential, retail/residential) within
         individual structures;
     •   Home-based businesses following the provisions of Chapter 19.85 of this title;
     •   Health-care facilities;
     •   Public facilities, such as schools, libraries, and civic buildings;
     •   Common areas, such as plazas, playgrounds, and trails
     •   Churches;
     •   Day-care facilities;
     •   Open space, including landscaped areas and areas in natural vegetation, golf courses, parks,
          recreational areas;
     •   Agriculture;
     •   Industrial and manufacturing uses; and
     •   Other accessory uses which are ancillary to, and designed to serve, any of the foregoing uses.


                                                       14
19.69.040 - Conditional uses.

     The approved P-C Zone plan or community structure plan may include provisions for specific land
uses identified as conditional uses within a given district, which may include uses listed under Section
19.69.030 or additional uses. The addition of conditional uses in the approved P-C Zone plan shall require
the approval of the Metro Council, which approval may be established by development agreement.
Conditional uses, if any, are subject to review and approval as set forth in Chapter 19.84 of this title. Design
standards for conditional uses shall be included with the applicable project specific standards.




19.69.050 - P-C zone area—Minimum requirements.

    Each P-C Zone shall contain a minimum of four hundred acres located in the Copperton Metro
Township. If the P-C Zone contains multiple owners, the owners may, if necessary to reach the four
hundred-acre threshold, or if such owners otherwise desire, combine their properties for planning and
development purposes.




19.69.060 - Planning and approval process for P-C zone.

    Development within the P-C Zone will require the following plans to be prepared and submitted for
approval in accordance with this chapter: P-C Zone plan, CSP, and project plans and/or subdivision and
condominium plat approval as applicable. The planning and approval process and approving bodies are
summarized in the following table:

                        SCALE (AREA COVERED                                                     APPROVAL
 APPROVAL STEP                                           WHAT IS DESCRIBED IN PLAN
                          BY APPLICATION)                                                         LEVEL

                                                    Land area to be rezoned with land
                                                      use table outlining proposed                Planning
   P-C Zone and       Total land area to be rezoned permitted and conditional uses (if          commission
       plan                        P-C.             applicable), number of residential           and Metro
                                                    units, and areas of nonresidential             council
                                                              development.

                                                         Major systems for the larger
                        Any portion of project that      development such as major                Planning
   Community          has a common street system,       roadways, infrastructure, open          commission
  structure plan       open space system or other space networks, general location of            and Metro
                          infrastructure system.    villages, towns, neighborhoods and             council
                                                     business and research parkways.


      Project                                         Show major development parcel
                            Multiple phases of                                                   Planning
 plan/subdivision                                   locations, open space system, and
                       development. May, but is not                                             commission
       plat                                         major infrastructure associated with
                        required to include, master
                                                     roadways. Final plats indicate lot



                                                      15
                     subdivision approval followed         layouts and development
                      by phased subdivision plats.                regulations.

     Site plan          Individual sites within the         Final site development
                                                                                                Staff
     approval                 development.                      requirements.




19.69.070 - P-C zone plan.

      At the time of application for rezoning, a P-C Zone plan shall be submitted to the planning commission
for review and recommendation to the Metro council. Following recommendation by the planning
commission, a P-C Zone plan shall be submitted for review and approval by the Metro council. A proposed
development agreement shall be submitted for approval by the Metro council in connection with each P-C
Zone plan. The approved P-C Zone plan and development agreement shall implement and govern
development within the applicable P-C Zone but may be amended through standard rezoning procedures
or through procedures outlined in the development agreement and shall contain the following information:
    1. Name of planned community;
    2. Names, addresses, and phone numbers of applicant and property owners;
    3. P-C Zone parcel location, legal/boundary description, acreage, scale, and north arrow;
    4. A land use table showing the proposed permitted and conditional uses (if applicable), number of
       dwelling units, height limits, and the total acreage of open space in the P-C Zone and areas (in
       square footage or acreage) of the various non-residential land uses proposed in the P-C Zone;
    5. General descriptions and locations of existing and proposed major infrastructure, including water,
       sanitary sewer, storm drainage, parks/open space/trails, and street improvements, together with
       service adequacy analyses for each of these (including the necessity of system improvements
       within or adjacent to the subject property, if applicable) to justify the dwelling units, open space,
       and non-residential square footage proposed in the land use table mentioned above;
    6. Existing waterways, major utilities, easements and flood boundary;
    7. Adjacent parcels, owners, and uses;
    8. Topography and significant features on or adjacent to the property; and
    9. Other information deemed necessary by the planning and development services director.
    Subject to conditions or limitations agreed to in the development agreement, the development
    agreement based on the approved P-C Zone plan shall confer a vested right to proceed with the
    development process established in this chapter for the property included within the applicable P-C
    Zone plan, including the number of dwelling units and the square footage of nonresidential uses
    reflected in the approved P-C Zone plan. Upon approval, the P-C Zone plan shall constitute an
    amendment to the applicable community general plan for the area covered by the P-C Zone plan.




19.69.080 - Community structure plan (CSP).

    Following approval of the P-C Zone plan, a community structure plan (CSP), together with a
development agreement that codifies that plan, shall be submitted to the Metro for review and approval by

                                                      16
the planning commission. The CSP shall contain a contiguous area within the P-C Zone that includes one
or more of the following: neighborhoods, villages, business and research parks, and/or town centers. A
CSP shall show the following:
    1. Name of planned community;
    2. Names, addresses, and phone numbers of applicant and property owners;
    3. CSP location, legal/boundary description, acreage, scale, and north arrow;
    4. Proposed land use districts (neighborhoods, villages, business and research parks, and/or town
       centers) boundaries, and acreage; a table showing the number of dwelling units, open space
       acreage, and acreage of the various non-residential land uses;
    5. A master circulation system plan, including a street network, pedestrian circulation, bicycle and trail
       system plans (including possible equestrian trails), identification of street alignments and right-of-
       way widths, illustrative cross sections which accommodate and specify vehicular, pedestrian, and
       bicycle use in the right-of-way. Pedestrian and bicycle trail systems shall connect the land use
       districts, schools and open space areas and provide linkages to other trail systems in existing or
       future areas of the P-C Zone and adjacent facilities within the Metro;
    6. Existing and proposed waterways and water bodies, major utilities and easements, flood boundary,
       and flood control facilities;
    7. Adjacent parcels, their owners, and their uses;
    8. Topography and significant features on or adjacent to the property;
    9. Documentation of existing and proposed secondary water rights, shares, and usage, if any;
    10. Open space plan providing general description and locations of major open space;
    11. Standards that govern the design and maintenance of major public infrastructure improvements
        (including without limitation sidewalks, street lighting, paving, street furniture, etc.) and general
        building placement, massing, and design criteria (CSP design standards); and
    12. Other information deemed necessary by the planning and development services director.
      The planning commission shall have the discretion to disapprove a CSP only on the basis of: (1) the
failure of the proposed CSP to include all of the elements required in this section; (2) the failure of the
proposed master circulation system identified in the CSP within and surrounding the P-C Zone to
adequately serve the communities within the P-C Zone; (3) the failure of the proposed major infrastructure
identified in the CSP within and surrounding the P-C Zone to provide adequate service to the communities
within the P-C Zone; or (4) the inclusion of uses in the CSP not permitted or conditionally permitted under
this Chapter. In approving a CSP, the planning commission may impose reasonable conditions of approval
to mitigate reasonably anticipated detrimental impacts in accordance with Metro Code Subsection
19.84.060(C), (D).




19.69.090 - Project plan/subdivision plat.

     Upon approval of a CSP, a project plan shall be submitted for review, together with a development
agreement that outlines project specific standards establishing in substantial detail the character and nature
of the design of public and private improvements within the area covered by the applicable project plan
(project specific standards) for the applicable portion of the P-C Zone covered by the project plan. The
purpose of the project plan is to allow for the creation and approval of a fully-integrated development plan
for a specifically identified portion of the applicable P-C Zone. A project plan may include vertical and
horizontal mixtures of uses on one or more proposed lots, parcels or units located within the boundaries of
the proposed project plan. Therefore, the project plan may identify a combination of proposed subdivisions,
condominium projects, and/or site plans, one or more of which may be submitted concurrently for review
and approval with the project plan. The project plan, and each subdivision plat or condominium project

                                                     17
submitted in connection therewith or in furtherance thereof, shall be reviewed and approved by the Metro
staff prior to submittal of the project plan and associated development agreement to the planning
commission for approval. Subdivision plats (preliminary and final) shall be submitted and approved pursuant
to the process and in accordance with the requirements set forth in Title 18, "Subdivisions," of the Metro
Code and other applicable Metro ordinances. Application and approval of a preliminary or final subdivision
plat may occur before submission of a project plan provided project specific standards are submitted and
approved contemporaneously with such subdivision plat application and approvals; and provided, further,
that the project specific standards and subdivision plat will ultimately be incorporated into an approved
project plan and associated development agreement. The preliminary and final plats shall conform to the
applicable CSP standards as well as all applicable project specific standards, including any supplemental
project specific standards proposed and approved in connection with the applicable final plat.




19.69.100 - Site plan review.

      Site plans may be reviewed concurrently with a project plan or subdivision plat. Any proposed
commercial, office, industrial, multi-family residential, open space, parks, or institutional developments and
alterations to existing developments shall be located on legal lots of record created by metes and bounds
conveyance with the approval of the Metro staff or pursuant to subdivision or condominium plats and shall
meet the site plan review requirements outlined in Chapter 19.02.080 of this title. All Metro ordinances and
requirements shall be met in preparing site plan applications and in designing and constructing the
development. Where applicable, building permits may not be obtained nor shall any site work be performed
prior to site plan approval as set forth in Section 19.02.130 of this title.




19.69.110 - Development standards.

(A) Open Space and Common Areas. Open space includes parks, trails, natural area, or farmland, which
    is established to provide and preserve recreational, agricultural, or other similar uses in the P-C Zone
    as approved by the Metro council after a recommendation of the planning commission. Common areas
    include landscaped areas (including landscaping around schools, colleges, and other civic buildings),
    athletic fields, gathering places such as plazas, commons, exterior courtyards, public recreational
    facilities, landscaped medians or park strips that exceed Metro standards, but do not include areas
    contained within a typical public street cross section. The applicable CSP standards and project specific
    standards shall govern the use and character of the open spaces and common areas. Each P-C Zone
    shall contain a minimum of twenty percent of the gross acreage in a combination of common areas and
    open space, at least half of which (ten percent of the gross acreage) shall be open space. These areas
    shall be designated in the applicable project plan and separately identified on any applicable final plat
    of subdivision or site plan. Open space recorded as a lot or lots in subdivisions or as common area in
    condominium plats and shall be maintained with open space or conservation easements or such other
    arrangement as is approved by the planning commission in connection with project plan or subdivision
    or condominium approval.
(B) Yard Requirements. Yard requirements shall be determined and governed by the applicable project
    specific standards established pursuant to the requirements of this chapter. The following minimum
    requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone:
     1.   Minimum yard areas shall be measured from the front, side and rear lines of lots, condominium
          private ownership yard areas (where building footprint is not recorded) or from accesses,
          driveways, or streets (where no property lines or private ownership yard areas exist).
     2.   Buildings may not be located within a public right of way or utility easement.




                                                     18
(C) Fencing, Screening, Clear Vision. Fencing, screening and clear vision requirements shall be
    determined and governed by the applicable project specific standards established pursuant to the
    requirements of this chapter. The following requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone:
    1.   All mechanical equipment, antennas, loading and utility areas, and trash receptacles shall be
         screened from view with architectural features or walls consistent with materials used in the
         associated buildings as more specifically set forth in the applicable project specific standards.
    2.   Fences and landscape materials, except for mature trees which are pruned at least seven feet
         above the ground, shall not exceed two feet in height within a ten foot triangular area formed by
         the edge of a driveway and the street right-of-way line or within a thirty foot triangular area formed
         by the right-of-way lines of intersecting streets.
(D) Architectural Standards. Architectural requirements shall be determined and governed by the project
    specific standards established pursuant to the requirements of this chapter. The following architectural
    standards and requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone:
    1.   Architectural design of buildings and building materials shall be established in the project specific
         standards.
    2.   All building materials shall be high quality, durable, and low maintenance.
    3.   The applicable project specific standards shall address exterior relief of buildings, design of all
         sides of buildings, and architectural compatibility of buildings.
(E) Landscaping Requirements. Landscaping requirements shall be determined and governed by the
    applicable project specific standards established pursuant to the requirements of this chapter. The
    following landscaping requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone:
    1.   The applicable Project Specific Standards shall address the landscaping and proper maintenance
         of required front, side, and rear yards of lots and private ownership areas in the P-C Zone.
    2.   All areas of lots and parcels in the P-C Zone not designated for open space, parking, buildings,
         or other hard surfacing shall be landscaped and properly maintained. Designated open space
         shall remain in a natural condition, cultivated or landscaped, and properly maintained in
         accordance with the project specific standards.
    3.   All park strips and public right-of-way areas in the P-C Zone shall be landscaped and properly
         irrigated and maintained by the applicable property owners in the P-C Zone unless otherwise
         approved by the Metro council. All park strip areas shall be installed by the developer and properly
         maintained by the applicable owners in the P-C Zone. A plan for funding of on-going maintenance
         of street landscaping by the property owners shall be presented for approval by staff at the time
         of site plan approval.
(F) Lighting. Lighting requirements shall be determined and governed by the project specific standards
    established pursuant to the requirements of this chapter.
(G) Other Requirements. The following requirements shall apply in the P-C Zone:
    1.   All developments shall be graded according to the Metro's engineering and building requirements
         to provide adequate drainage. Buildings shall be equipped with facilities for the discharge of all
         roof drainage onto the subject lot or parcel.
    2.   The applicable owners shall properly maintain all private areas of individual lots or parcels.
    3.   The specific requirements of this Section 110 shall be governed by the project specific standards
         established pursuant to the requirements of this Chapter and may be modified as the Metro
         council deems appropriate pursuant to the terms of the applicable Project development
         agreement.
    4.   All common area improvements including buildings, open space, recreational facilities, roads,
         fences, utilities, landscaping, walkways, street lights and signs not specifically dedicated to the
         Metro or accepted for ownership or maintenance by the Metro shall be perpetually maintained by
         the applicable owners or their agents through a special taxing district, owners' association with

                                                     19
power to assess and collect fees for maintenance or other assessment and maintenance
mechanisms acceptable to the Metro council. Improvements for which the Metro agrees to accept
maintenance responsibility shall be reviewed by the applicable Metro agency for compliance with
adopted standards prior to approval.




                                         20
19.69.120 - Development agreement.

     In conjunction with the approval of a P-C Zone plan, CSP, and project plan, the developer and the
Metro shall enter into one or more development agreements reflecting all conditions of approval and terms
of the applicable P-C Zone plan, CSP, and project plan, and such other matters as the Metro and the
developer may agree. The Metro mayor signs all development agreements. The Metro council need only
approve the development agreement associated with the P-C Zone plan. Development agreements entered
into with respect to a CSP or project plan do not require approval of the Metro council unless the approved
CSP or project plan, together with the approved CSP design standards or project specific standards, are
inconsistent with the conditions and requirements set forth in this title. Without regard to future
amendments, additions or changes to the Copperton Metro Ordinance, the Metro may agree, in such
development agreements, that the developer may advance development applications for projects within the
applicable P-C Zone pursuant to the planning and approval processes set forth in this chapter, or to such
other process as is specifically agreed upon pursuant to a development agreement approved by the Metro
council. Such development agreements may further identify a process for approving amendments to an
approved P-C Zone plan, CSP, project plan or subdivision plat, which shall be approved by the Metro
council to the extent such a process differs from Metro ordinance. Any entitlement granted to the developer
under the terms of a development agreement shall be subject to amendments, changes, or additions to this
chapter if the Metro council finds that failure to so amend, change, or add to the chapter would constitute a
compelling countervailing public interest.




NOTE: the planning commission previously recommended removal of the airport overlay zone
(CHAPTER 19.70). Because Copperton does not have an airport now or in the foreseeable future, that
recommendation should stand. Also note that the planning commission has recommended
replacement of the residential compatibility overlay zone with a new CHAPTER 19.71, entitled
residential compatibility design standards.




                                                     21
