                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.pwpds.slco.org



         Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                      Tuesday, April 9, 2019 6:00 P.M.

Location
BINGHAM CANYON LIONS CLUB
95 EAST HILLCREST STREET
COPPERTON, UTAH
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                     PUBLIC HEARING
30912 – Ordinance Amendment – Hearing and recommendation for the adoption of chapter 19.20
“Open Space (OS) Zones,” to create a zoning designation for both developed and natural open
spaces in Copperton. Planner: Curtis Woodward

                                    BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2019 (Continued)
    2) Approval of Minutes from the March 12, 2019 meeting.
    3) RCOZ discussion with the Metro Township Council
    4) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances
    5) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                          ADJOURN




April 9, 2019                               Page 1 of 1       AGENDA – COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                     Planning and Development Services
                                     2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                     Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                     slco.org/development-services




                                                  File # 30912


               Ordinance Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: April 9, 2019
Request: Creation of a new chapter to the zoning ordinance which establishes 2 types of open space zones,
the OS-P for developed open space like parks, and the OS-N for natural open space (which may include trails
and trailheads).

Planner: Curtis Woodward



                                       EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
The planning commission previously discussed the creation of an open space zone that was based off of the
open space zone used by the city of South Jordan. The Copperton Metro Township Council has authorized the
planning commission to hold a public hearing and make formal recommendation to the Council for action.

The proposed ordinance contains two zones, the OS-P and the OS-N. The OS-P is primarily for developed open
space like parks, while the OS-N is primarily for natural open space.

                                    PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
Based on input from the planning commission at the previous meeting where this ordinance was discussed, staff
has suggested some changes to the text to further differentiate between the OS-P and OS-N zones. Uses that
involve the development of land, such as amphitheaters, community gardens, and botanical gardens have been
removed from the OS-N, and trails, trailheads, and associated potential improvements (such as parking lots and
restrooms) have been moved from list of permitted uses to the list of conditional uses.

                             PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
Staff recommends that the planning commission open a public hearing to receive public input, and after having
received that input, close the public hearing and adopt the following motion:

“Move to recommend approval of the Open Space Zones chapter of the zoning ordinance with the amendments
to the text from previous drafts of the ordinance as indicated in the staff report.”
                              Chapter 19.20 OPEN SPACE (OS) ZONES



19.20.010: PURPOSE:

The open space zones may be cited as the "OS-P" (Park Open Space) or “OS-N” (Natural Open Space) and
are established to provide areas where large and small scale open space amenities can be located in the
Metro. Generally, these areas are to be open or largely undeveloped. The zones are intended to encourage a
comprehensive network of permanent, multifunctional, publicly and privately owned open spaces.
Development standards are designed to prevent the encroachment of residential, commercial, and industrial
uses into open space areas and to help implement open space objectives of the Metro's general plan.


19.20.020: USE REGULATIONS:

Uses may be conducted in OS zones only in accordance with the following regulations:

A. Only allowed permitted, conditional or accessory uses as set forth in this chapter may be conducted in
OS zones. A conditional use permit must be obtained prior to the establishment of a conditional use.

B. Accessory uses and buildings are permitted in OS zones only in conjunction with allowed permitted and
conditional uses. Accessory uses include, but are not limited to, parking lots and terraces, properly screened
utility and loading areas and other buildings and activities which are incidental and subordinate to the
principal permitted or conditional use on the premises.

C. There shall be no open storage of trash, debris, used materials, wrecked or neglected equipment or
materials in OS zones.

D. No vehicle, boat or trailer, or parts thereof, which is in a wrecked, junked, dismantled, inoperative or
abandoned condition, attended or not, may be parked or stored in OS zones for longer than seventy two (72)
hours unless stored within a completely enclosed building.

E. No commercial vehicles such as earthmoving or material handling equipment, semitrucks or trailers or
any commercial truck, trailer or vehicle may be stored in OS zones for longer than seventy two (72) hours,
except in conjunction with an approved use or approved development or construction activities on the
property.

F. Utility trailers and recreational vehicles such as motorhomes, travel trailers, watercraft, campers and all-
terrain vehicles, may not be stored in any area in OS zones.


19.20.030: DEVELOPMENT REVIEW:

All uses proposed in OS zones may only be established in conformance with development review
procedures of the Metro. Applicants shall follow the procedures and requirements of this code regarding
development review in the preparation and review of development proposals in the OS zones. All uses shall
be conducted according to the approved plan or plat and any conditions of approval. Plans or plats may not
be altered without prior approval of the Metro, except as allowed under state law.
19.20.040: LOT WIDTH AND FRONTAGE:

No minimum lot width is required for lots in the OS zone except that parcels shall have sufficient frontage
or access to accommodate proposed development. Parcels not fronting on a street must be accessible via a
recorded easement or right of way.


19.20.050: AREA REQUIREMENTS:

The following area requirements shall apply in the OS zone:

A. Minimum Zone Area: The minimum area in an OS zone shall be one acre.

B. Minimum Lot Area: There shall be no minimum lot area in OS zones except that parcels shall have
sufficient size to accommodate proposed development.



19.20.060: PRIOR CREATED LOTS:

Nonconforming lots or parcels of land which legally existed or were created by a preliminary or final plat
approval prior to the establishment of an OS zone shall be brought into conformance with the requirements
of this chapter prior to development.


19.20.070: PARKING AND ACCESS:

Parking areas and access in OS zones shall meet requirements of the zoning ordinance.


19.20.080: FENCING, SCREENING AND CLEAR VISION:

The following fencing, screening and clear vision requirements shall apply in OS zones:

A. All mechanical equipment, antennas (where possible), loading and utility areas and trash dumpsters shall
be screened from view with architectural features or walls consistent with materials used in the associated
buildings.

B. The boundary of an OS zone which is not in or adjacent to a street and which is adjacent to a residential
or agricultural zone may be required to be fenced. Fencing or landscaping techniques may be required to
buffer and protect waterways, trails, parks, open spaces or other uses as determined with development
approval.

C. No wall, fence or screening material shall be erected between a street and a front or street side building
line in OS zones, except as required in subsection A of this section.

D. Landscape materials, except for mature trees which are pruned at least seven feet (7') above the ground,
and fences shall not exceed three feet (3') in height within a ten foot (10') triangular area formed by the
edge of a driveway and a street right of way line or within a thirty foot (30') triangular area formed by the
right of way lines of intersecting streets.


19.20.090: ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS:
The following architectural standards are required in OS zones:

A. Architectural drawings and elevations, exterior materials and colors of all buildings shall be submitted in
conjunction with site plan review. In projects containing multiple buildings, a design book containing
architectural theme, features, exterior materials and colors governing the entire project shall be submitted.

B. All building materials shall be high quality, durable and low maintenance.

C. Exterior walls of buildings, in excess of sixty feet (60') in length, shall have relief features at least four
inches (4") deep at planned intervals. All sides of buildings shall receive design consideration.

D. Signs shall meet requirements of the zoning ordinance and shall be constructed of materials which
complement the buildings which they identify.

E. The maximum building height in OS zones shall be thirty five feet (35'), unless otherwise approved by
the planning commission.

F. The exteriors of buildings in the OS zone shall be properly maintained by the owners.


19.20.100: LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS:

The following landscaping requirements and standards shall apply in OS zones:

A. The front, side and rear yards of lots in OS zones, shall be landscaped and properly maintained with
grass, deciduous and evergreen trees and other plant material approved in conjunction with a site plan or
plat for the development. Natural open space areas shall incorporate plant materials as provided in the
Metro's "Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone".

B. All areas of lots in OS zones not approved for parking, buildings or other hard surfacing shall be
landscaped and properly maintained with grass, deciduous and evergreen trees and other plant material
approved in conjunction with a site plan or plat for the development. Natural open space areas shall
incorporate plant materials as provided in the Metro's "Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone".

C. A minimum of thirty percent (30%) of required yard area trees shall be minimum seven foot (7')
evergreens. Deciduous trees shall be minimum two inch (2") caliper. Deciduous and evergreen trees
required in this section need not be equally spaced but shall be dispersed throughout the required yard areas
on the site.

D. All collector streets and other public and private park strips in OS zones shall be improved and
maintained by the adjoining owners according to specifications adopted by the Metro unless otherwise
allowed with development approval.

E. Trees may not be topped nor may any landscape material be removed in OS zones without Metro
approval. Any dead plant material shall be replaced in accordance with the requirements of this chapter and
the conditions of site plan or plat approval.

F. The landscaping in parking areas in OS zones shall comply with the requirements of 19.77.060.

G. Development which is contiguous to canals, streams or drainage areas shall make reasonable efforts to
include banks and rights of way in the landscaping of the project and the urban trails system. Any areas so
included and perpetually preserved may be counted toward required yard space. If approved by the Metro
engineer, waterways which traverse developments may be left open if properly landscaped and maintained
by the adjacent owners. Waterways may not be altered without written approval of any entity or agency
having jurisdiction over said waterways.

H. All required landscaping in OS zones shall be installed (or escrowed due to season) prior to occupancy.

I. All landscaped areas, including adjoining public right of way areas, shall be properly irrigated and
maintained by the owners.


19.20.110: LIGHTING:

A lighting plan shall be submitted with all new developments in the OS zone. Site lighting shall be shielded
to prevent glare on adjacent properties.

Lighting fixtures shall be architectural grade with a unified streetlight design, as approved by Public Works.


19.20.120: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:

A. Grading And Drainage: All development sites in OS zones shall be graded according to the Metro
engineering and building requirements to provide adequate drainage. Buildings shall be equipped with
facilities for the discharge of all roof drainage onto the subject lot or parcel.

B. Maintenance: All private areas in developments shall be properly maintained by the owners.

C. Easements: Buildings may not be located within a public easement.

D. Phasing Plan: A project phasing plan shall be submitted for review at the time of plat or site plan
approval. Development shall be in accordance with the phasing plan unless a revised phasing plan is
approved by the Metro.


19.20.130: REQUIREMENTS UNIQUE TO THE PARK OPEN SPACE (OS-P) SUBDISTRICT:

Purpose of the OS-P Subdistrict: The purpose of this subdistrict is to encourage the acquisition and
development of park open space acreage within the Metro. The focus of the zone is to help implement the
open space and recreational goals and policies of the Metro's general plan, as well as the Metro's open space
master plan, in regard to developable open space.


19.20.140: PERMITTED USES IN THE OS-P SUBDISTRICT:

The following uses may be conducted in the OS-P subdistrict:

   − Accessory uses to approved permitted and conditional uses, such as, but not limited to, restrooms,
     parking lots, properly screened utility and loading areas, the preparing and serving of food and
     beverages, the sale of equipment and supplies in connection with approved recreational activities,
     and other buildings and activities which are incidental and subordinate to the principal permitted use
     on the premises.
   − Botanical gardens.
   − Community gardens.
   − Conservation areas, including, but not limited to, watershed areas, wildlife refuges, wetlands,
     woodlands, and riparian areas.
   − Nature or zoological exhibits and facilities.
   − Open air theaters, amphitheaters, and meeting places.
   − Trails, trailheads, and walkways.


19.20.150: CONDITIONAL USES IN THE OS-P SUBDISTRICT:

   − Cemetery.
   − Parks and recreational areas, including, but not limited to, playgrounds, athletic fields, golf courses,
     country clubs, tennis courts, pavilions, dog parks, urban fisheries, and swimming pools.
   − Public, quasi-public facilities.
   − Telecommunications, meeting the requirements of the zoning ordinance.


19.20.160: REQUIREMENTS UNIQUE TO THE NATURAL OPEN SPACE (OS-N) SUBDISTRICT:

A. Purpose Of The OS-N Subdistrict: The purpose of this subdistrict is to encourage the acquisition and
protection of natural open space acreage within the Metro. Activities that may have a detrimental effect
upon natural open space are discouraged. The focus of the zone is to help implement the open space goals
and policies of the Metro's general plan in regards to the protection of natural open space.


19.20.170: PERMITTED USES IN THE OS-N SUBDISTRICT:

The following uses may be conducted in the OS-N subdistrict:

   − Accessory uses to approve permitted and conditional uses, such as, but not limited to, restrooms,
     parking lots and other buildings and activities which are incidental and subordinate to the principal
     permitted use on the premises.
   − Botanical gardens.
   − Community gardens.
   − Conservation areas, including, but not limited to, watershed areas, wildlife refuges, wetlands,
     woodlands, and riparian areas. Nature or zoological exhibits and facilities.
   − Open air theaters, amphitheaters, and meeting places.
   − Trails, trailheads, and walkways.


19.20.180: CONDITIONAL USES IN THE OS-N SUBDISTRICT:

   − Parks for the preservation of natural open space and trails. Public, quasi-public facilities.
   − Trails, trailheads, and walkways, including accessory uses such as restrooms, parking lots and other
     buildings and activities which are incidental and subordinate to the principal permitted use on the
     premises.
                                           Planning and Development Services
                                           2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                           Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                           www.pwpds.slco.org




                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                     COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                 Tuesday, March 12, 2019 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 1 minute                          *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                     County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Green

                                                 ATTENDANCE

                               Public     Business
        Commissioners                                Absent                                                 Public      Business
                                Mtg         Mtg                             Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                             Mtg          Mtg
        Ranuta Alder                                   x
        Vern Winkler                                   x                     Curtis Woodward                                 x
         Ryan Taylor                         x                                 Wendy Gurr                                    x
     Doug Green (Chair)                      x
    Mike Stone (Vice Chair)                  x

                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 6:13 p.m.
   1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2019
      Election of Chair
      Motion: Continue to the April 9th meeting.
             Motion by: Commissioner
             2nd by: Commissioner
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
       Election of Vice Chair
       Motion: Continue to the April 9th meeting.
              Motion by: Commissioner
              2nd by: Commissioner
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
   2) Approval of Minutes from the February 12, 2019 meeting
      Motion: To approve minutes from the February 12, 2019 meeting as presented.
            Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
            2nd by: Commissioner Stone
            Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
   3) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances
      Mr. Woodward apologized for not having a public meeting and will plan for the next meeting to
      allow for noticing.

Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – March 12, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                    Page 1 of 2
       Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding the zoning of open space.

       19.66 – M-1 Manufacturing Zone
       19.66 – No questions or changes

       19.68 – M-2 Manufacturing Zone
       19.68 – No questions or changes

       19.69 – Planned Community (P-C) Zone
       19.69 – Planning Commission discussed the P-C zone to council on the books and if the council
       would like the planning commission to have a hearing for recommendation or wait. Commissioner
       Green said his suggestion is take it to the council and report back to planning commission.

   4) Other Business Items (as needed)
      No other business items to discuss.


                                        MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 7:14 p.m.




Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – March 12, 2019 – Meeting Summary             Page 2 of 2
                                      Planning and Development Services
                                      2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                      Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                     slco.org/development-services




                                                     30704


                                   Ordinance Summary
Public Body: Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission             Meeting Date: April 9, 2019
Request: Work Meeting with the Metro Council
Planner: Curtis Woodward


                                       PROJECT DESCRIPTION
At the meeting of November 13, 2018, the Copperton Metro Township planning commission voted to
recommend approval of the residential compatibility ordinance, which would replace Chapter 19.71 of the
current County Zoning Ordinance with a chapter to regulate new residential construction within the Copperton
Metro Township.

On November 28, 2018, the Metro Council discussed some concerns they had with the ordinance, particularly with
regard to the appeals process. At their March 2019 meeting, planning staff suggested Council members meet with
the planning commission in a work session to discuss those concerns.

Attached to this report is a copy of the ordinance as forwarded by the planning commission with comments in the
margin representing thoughts of the attorney for the Metro Township Council.
Chapter 19.71 - RESIDENTIAL COMPATIBILITY DESIGN STANDARDS                                                      Commented [NSB1]: Is this intent that this lines up with
                                                                                                                the Copperton Code or the Salt Lake County Code.

                                                                                                                I assume that Copperton will continue to follow all other
19.71.010 - Purpose of provisions.                                                                              aspects of Salt Lake County’s zoning ordinances, meaning
                                                                                                                that the Salt Lake County Code will continue to cover non-
A.   The general purpose of the residential compatibility design standards is to:                               residential construction and multi-family homes.

     1. Promote public welfare and to balance neighborhood compatibility with the private property
        interests of those who wish to construct new dwellings,
     2. Encourage new development, including the subdivision of lots, that is compatible with the character     Commented [NSB2]: Is the subdivision of lots and the
        of the existing development,                                                                            potential increase in density and growth associated with
     3. Foster civic pride in the history of the Copperton Metro Township,                                      subdivision something Copperton wants to encourage?

     4. Protect and enhance the attraction of the Metro Township's historic character for residents and
        visitors, and,
     5. Encourage social, economic and environmental sustainability, and
     6. To require approval from the Copperton Metro Township planning and development services
        division (the “division”) for the construction of all new residential homes.                            Commented [NSB3]: I assume this presumes Copperton
          5.                                                                                                    will continue to use the County’s planning and zoning
                                                                                                                division?
B.       Recognizing the wide variation of circumstances incident to a residential application and the need
     for architectural freedom, the metro township is adopting ashall use the below three-tiered approach       Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.5", No bullets or
     when evaluating applications to construct a new residential home:
     1.    Option A provides for strict standards of height, area, and setback with permits issued by the
           Copperton Metro Township planning and development services division (the "division").
     2.    Option B allows the division to consider deviations from one or more of thespecific standards        Commented [NSB4]: I think this is more accurate. As
           provided in Option A based upon the compatibility of the proposed residential application with       drafted, the ordinance does not allow the division to
           other houses in the immediate neighborhood.                                                          approve deviations from the requirements regarding: (1)
                                                                                                                proportion of principal facades; (2) front and rear yard; (3)
     3.    Option C allows a planning commission to consider at a public hearing a special exception for
                                                                                                                building envelope; and (4) composition of principal facades.
           unusual or extraordinary circumstances that justify deviations from one or more of the limitations
                                                                                                                Deviations for these aspects would require special
           under Options A and B.
                                                                                                                permission from the planning commission.


19.71.020 - Overlay zone, scope and application.

A.   Geographic Area of Application. The standards and regulations contained in this chapter shall apply
     to the construction of all new residential homes construction commenced after the effective date of        Commented [NSB5]:
     this chapter in the Copperton Metro Township, according to the zones listed in Table I below.
                                                                                                                Commented [NSB6]: “New residential home
B.   Applicability to Lots of Record. The standards and regulations contained in this chapter shall apply to    construction” could be read broadly has including any new
     all legally subdivided lots, including those that were recorded prior to the enactment of this chapter.    construction involving a home, including remodels.
C.   Exemption for Previous Residential Development. Noncomplying buildings or structures commenced
                                                                                                                Also, the use of the term “residential home” seems to apply
     or completed prior to the enactment of this chapter are exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
                                                                                                                only to single family homes and could be interpreted as not
D.   Inconsistent Provisions. When the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with provisions found in     applying to multi-family units or other construction. Is that
     any other chapters of the Copperton mMetro Ttownship ordinances, the most restrictive provisions           the intent? The other language in this section appears to
     shall apply.                                                                                               pertain to all new construction and subdivisions.

E.   The planning commission shall review subdivision plats proposed for property within the Metro
     Township and may require changes to ensure the proposed subdivision will be compatible with the
     historic character of the Copperton Metro Township.
19.71.030 - Option A. General standards—Planning and development services review.

A. Application.                                                                                                     Commented [NSB7]:
    1. Any person seeking to build construct a new residential home in any zone listed in Table I shall file        Commented [NSB8]: What about multi-family units and
       an application with the division and obtain land-use approval from the division. An applicant may            non-residential development?
       seek a determination of the applicable limits under Option A from the division prior to the submission
       of any building plans.                                                                                       Formatted: Indent: Left: 0.31", Hanging: 0.19"

    2. This Chapter will not apply to residential additions, remodels, or other site changes, including but
       not limited to landscaping changes to existing residential homes within the Copperton Metro
       Township.                                                                                                    Commented [NSB9]: I think an express disclaimer like
                                                                                                                    this is needed to address resident concerns that this
                                                                                                                    ordinance will function like an HOA.
B. Standards. Unless applying for approval under Option B or Option C, the division shall approve all
   applications shall that comply with the following minimum standards:                                             Commented [NSB10]: Unless otherwise specified in an
   1. Maximum Building Height. The proposed height shall be visually compatible with surrounding                    applicable portion of the County Code, I think we should
      structures and streetscape. Each point on the highest ridge of the structure shall be no more than            specify: (1) the standard of proof that an applicant needs to
                                                                                                                    satisfy to gain approval; (2) how applicants will be notified
      that specified in Table I, column (b) for the zone in which the property is situated. Maximum building
                                                                                                                    that their application has been approved or denied; and (3)
      height shall be measured in feet from that point on the original grade vertically below the referenced
                                                                                                                    if an application has been denied, that the division will
      ridge height (not including chimneys and vent stacks).
                                                                                                                    explain the reasons why and the steps needed to submit an
   2. Maximum Lot Coverage. The lot coverage of all structures on the lot shall be not more than the                acceptable application.
      percentages given in Table I, column (d).
   3. Proportion of Principal Facades. The relationship of the width to the height of the principal
      elevations shall be in scale with surrounding structures and streetscape.
   4. Roof Shape. The roof shall have a minimum 4:12 pitch in order to be visually compatible with the
      predominant housing type.
   5. Side Yard. The combined side yard setbacks for any main structure shall be at least twenty-five
      percent of the lot width with no side setback less than eight feet. For purposes of this provision, "lot
      width" is the diameter of the largest circle that can be inscribed entirely within the lot, not including
      streams, fioodplains, wetlands, areas of thirty percent slope or greater or other natural hazard
      areas. No extensions, bay windows or similar building elements may encroach into the required
      setbacks under Option A, except for (a) attached air conditioning units, electrical boxes, utility
      meters and the like and (b) roof overhangs or eaves that extend no more than two feet into the area
      of the minimum side setback.                                                                                  Commented [NSB11]: Is this workable?
   6. Front and Rear Yard. The minimum front and rear setback of the primary residence and any
      accessory building shall be as specified in the applicable Copperton Metro Township code.                     Commented [NSB12]: Are more requirements needed
   7. Building Envelope. The size and mass of the structures shall be visually compatible with the size             for accessory buildings? They are often some of the most
      and mass of surrounding structures and streetscapes, and shall be further limited by the building             controversial zoning issues.
      envelope created by starting at a point eight feet above ground at each point on the property line
                                                                                                                    I also note that this section is very similar to the County’s
      of the lot and extending on a line at a forty-five degree angle from the vertical toward the interior of
                                                                                                                    ordinance, which does include more specific language on
      the lot, the projection of such line on the horizontal plane of the lot to be perpendicular to the
                                                                                                                    accessory buildings; namely:
      property line. The entire building must fit under this envelope except for dormers and gables that
      satisfy the following limitations:                                                                            “The highest ridge point of any accessory building shall be
       a.   A dormer may exceed the graduated height envelope, provided:                                            no more than twenty feet above the original grade vertically
                                                                                                                    below it. All other requirements for auxiliary structures shall
              i.     The width of the dormer is no more than fourteen feet;                                         be a specified in the applicable Salt Lake County code.”
              ii.    With multiple dormers, the distance to the front, or side edges of the roof is at least one-
                     half the distance between dormers; and
              iii.    The dormer is no higher than the ridge of the roof.
         b.   A gable may exceed the graduated height envelope, provided:
                i.    The height of the gable is no more than 1.75 times higher than the point where the
                      graduated height envelope intersects the gable; and
                ii.   The height of the gable is less than the maximum building height.
    8.   Composition of Principal Facades:
         a. Openings: The front façade of the home shall contain a front door and at least 2 windows facing
            the street;
         b. Entrance Porch and Other Projections: The front entrance shall be covered with a front porch,
            which may extend into the front yard setback up to 3 feet. Other projections, such as awnings
            over windows, may also project into the front yard up to 3 feet;
         c.   Materials: The relationship of the color and texture of materials of the facade shall be visually
              compatible with the predominant housing type by containing at least 2 different texture of
              materials and 2 different colors. Door and window trim may account for the second color and/or
              texture.
         d. Streetscape: Except for the driveway and walkway(s), the front yard shall be landscaped, and
            shall contain a minimum of 2 street trees located near enough to the sidewalk so that at
            maturity, they provide at least partial shade to pedestrians.
    9. The following figure depicts selected building limitations as described above and is for illustrative
       purposes only:




19.71.040 - Option B. Deviations from general standards based on neighborhood compatibility.

A. Application. To obtain division approval of deviations from one or more of the requirements of
   19.71.030.B.1, B.2, or B.5, an applicant must file a separate application in compliance with the               Commented [NSB13]: These deviations only apply to: (1)
   corresponding conditions of 19.71.040.D.1, D.2, or D.3. An applicant may seek a pre-determination of           building height; (2) lot coverage; and (3) side setbacks. Is
   the allowable deviations for proposed construction under Option B from the division prior to submitting        this what the Council wants?
   building plans.
B. Evidence. Compliance with the corresponding conditions of Option B must be established by reliable
   photographic, engineering, architectural or other evidence from the proximate neighborhood.                    Commented [NSB14]: Is the intent that these deviations
C. Deviations from Other Option A Requirements. No deviations from the Option A requirements of                   will be granted automatically if the applicant provides this
   19.71.030.B.3 or B.6 through B.8 may be approved by the division.                                              information? This needs to be more clear.

D. Permissible deviations from maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and minimum side                     Commented [NSB15]: Does Copperton want to allow the
                                                                                                                  division to approve deviations for these aspects: (1)
   setbacks under Option B are:
                                                                                                                  proportion of principal facades; (2) front and rear yard; (3)
      1. Maximum Building Height. The maximum building height that may be approved by the division                building envelope; and (4) composition of principal facades.
         under Option B is the lesser of:                                                                         Deviations for these aspects would require special
                                                                                                                  permission from the planning commission.
             a. Three feet plus the average maximum ridge height of residential structures that are on six lots
                of applicant's choice that:
                 i.     Are within the proximate neighborhood of the subject property, as defined in section
                        19.71.060.B; and
                 ii.    For which the applicant provides adequate evidence of the maximum building height, as
                        defined in this chapter; or
             b. The heights specified in column (c) of Table I for the applicable zone.
      2. Maximum Lot Coverage. The maximum lot coverage is 1.15 times the average of the lot coverage
         percentages of residential structures that are on six lots of applicant's choice that are within the
         proximate neighborhood of the subject property, such coverage not to exceed the percentages
         specified in Table I, column (e) for the applicable zone.
      3. Minimum Side Setbacks. Subject to the twenty-five percent requirement of 19.71.030.B.4, the
         minimum side setback is the average of the shorter side setback of residential structures that are
         on six lots of applicant's choice that are within the proximate neighborhood of the subject property,
         but in no event may it be less than six feet.
      4. Approval of more than one deviation from subsections 19.71.040.D.1 through .3 must use the same
         six lots from the proximate neighborhood to support the requested deviations, whether or not
         requests for multiple deviations are in one or separate applications.
E.     Table I below summarizes and further defines lot coverage and distance in the various zones under
       Options A and B:
                                                         Table I

                      Option A
                                        Option B          Option A       Option B
                      Maximum                                                             Option B Proximate
     Zone                              Maximum           Maximum Lot    Maximum Lot
                      Building                                                             Neighborhood (3)
      (a)                          Building Height (1)   Coverage (2)   Coverage (2)
                      Height (1)                                                                  (f)
                                           (c)               (d)            (e)
                        (b)

     R-1-5              28 ft.           33 ft.              35%             40%                100 ft.

     R-1-6              28 ft.           33 ft.              35%             40%                100 ft.

 R-1-7,
                        28 ft.           33 ft.              33%             38%                150 ft.
 R-1-8

 R-1-10,
                        30 ft.           35 ft.              31%             36%                175 ft.
 R-1-15
 R-1-21            32 ft.              37 ft.            25%                 30%                 200 ft.

 R-1-43            35 ft.              40 ft.            23%                 28%                 300 ft.

 R-2-6.5           28 ft.              33 ft.            40%                 45%                 100 ft.

     R-2-8         28 ft.              33 ft.            38%                 43%                 150 ft.

 R-2-10            30 ft.              35 ft.            35%                 40%                 175 ft.

     A-1           30 ft.              35 ft.            31%                 36%                 175 ft.




       (1)   Main dwelling
       (2)   All structures
       (3)   Radial distance from property boundaries




19.71.050 - Option C. Special Exception—Planning commission review.

A.     An applicant whose proposed residential structure meets neither the requirements of Option A nor of
       Option B may seek extraordinary relief and exceptions to the limitations of section 19.71.030.B.6 or
       B.7, or sections 19.71.040.D.1, D,2, or D.3 by submitting an original and seven copies of an application
       to the applicable Copperton Metro Township planning commission setting forth in detail:
       1.    The specific provisions from which the applicant seeks exceptions and the requested relief;
       2.    Detailed information and explanation establishing that:                                                Commented [NSB16]: These should be a specific
             a.   The proposed residence will be in harmony with the purpose of this chapter, the general plan      standard of evidence, such as preponderance of the
                  and any other land use document applicable to the area.                                           evidence (more likely than not or 51% of the evidence
                                                                                                                    shows something) or clear and convincing (high probability),
             b.   The proposed residence will be compatible with existing residential development within a          which is harder to meet.
                  reasonable distance in terms of height, mass and lot coverage, with particular focus on the
                  proximate neighborhood.
             c.   The proposed residence will not be detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare of
                  persons residing within a reasonable distance, with particular focus on the proximate
                  neighborhood.
             d.   Each point on the highest ridge of the structure will be no more than forty feet above the
                  point on the original grade vertically below it (with allowances for chimneys and vent stacks).
       3.    Additional factors that the planning commission may consider in deciding whether to grant an
             exception under this Part include:
             a.   Unusual lot shape;
             b.   Unusual or difficult terrain;
             c.   Drainage problems;
             d.   Situations that appear not to be clearly addressed by the provisions of Options A or B.
    4.   An application for an exception under this Option C will be subject to a public evidentiary hearing
         before the planning commission, for which notice of no less than ten days prior to the hearing will
         be given to:
         a.   All property owners appearing on the latest plat in the Salt Lake County recorder's office who
              own property within three hundred feet of the boundary of the subject lot; and
         b.   The chair of the community council for the area in which the subject lot is located.
B. A decision on the application shall be based on the evidence presented at the hearing. The burden
of proof shall rest with the applicant. The planning commission may impose such conditions and
limitations upon the approval of an exception to the requirements of this chapter necessary to prevent
or mitigate adverse effects on other properties in the neighborhood of the subject properties, consistent
with the standards of this chapter.                                                                            Commented [NSB17]: The Council and the planning
                                                                                                               commission will need to discuss how appeals of decisions
                                                                                                               made under this chapter will be handled.

                                                                                                               For instance, if this section does not specify a specific
                                                                                                               appeals process, I assume appeals would be handled by Salt
                                                                                                               Lake County’s hearing officer under Section 19-92-050 of
                                                                                                               the County Code.

                                                                                                               If Copperton does not want to use the County’s hearing
                                                                                                               officer, it will need to specify an appellate review authority
                                                                                                               in Copperton. This may be taken care of as the MSD takes
                                                                                                               over more of the planning and zoning responsibilities.

                                                                                                               However, if Copperton wants to have a more local appeal
                                                                                                               authority it could ask the planning and zoning commission
                                                                                                               to hear appeals of decisions made by the division. The
                                                                                                               Council could also serve as the appeal authority for
                                                                                                               decisions made by the commission under 19-71-050 or
                                                                                                               could serve as the appeal authority for all decisions made
                                                                                                               under this chapter.
