                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.pwpds.slco.org



        Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                     Tuesday, May 14, 2019 6:00 P.M.

Location
BINGHAM CANYON LIONS CLUB
95 EAST HILLCREST STREET
COPPERTON, UTAH
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

   1) Election of Vice Chair 2019 (Pending)
   2) Approval of Minutes from the April 9, 2019 meeting.
   3) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances
   4) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                          ADJOURN




May 14, 2019                                Page 1 of 1       AGENDA – COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                            Planning and Development Services
                                            2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                            Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                            www.pwpds.slco.org




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                      COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                   Tuesday, April 9, 2019 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 16 minutes                         *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                     found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                      County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Green

                                                  ATTENDANCE

                                Public     Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                                                 Public      Business
                                 Mtg         Mtg                             Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                              Mtg          Mtg
         Ranuta Alder             x           x
         Vern Winkler             x           x                               Curtis Woodward                   x             x
          Ryan Taylor                                   x                       Wendy Gurr                      x             x
      Doug Green (Chair)          x           x
     Mike Stone (Vice Chair)                            x

                                              PUBLIC HEARING
                                          Hearings began at – 6:06 p.m.

30912 – Ordinance Amendment – Hearing and recommendation for the adoption of chapter 19.20 “Open
Space (OS) Zones,” to create a zoning designation for both developed and natural open spaces in Copperton.
Planner: Curtis Woodward

Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Zoning Administrator Curtis Woodward provided
an analysis of the ordinance amendment.

Commissioner Green opened the public hearing.

                               PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Green closed the public hearing.

                               PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend file #30912 for approval to the Copperton Metro Township Council as presented.
      Motion by: Commissioner Alder

Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – April 9, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                      Page 1 of 2
        2nd by: Commissioner Winkler
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
Commissioner Winkler said Rio Tinto doesn’t want building on open space. Commissioner Winkler said
determine where applicable. Woodward said would go to council and determine which properties would
be included and notify the property owners of a rezone.

                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                        Meeting began at – 6:23 p.m.
    1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2019
       Election of Chair
       Motion: Commissioner Winkler nominated Commissioner Green. Commissioner Green accepted.
              Motion by: Commissioner Winkler
              2nd by: Commissioner Alder
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
        Election of Vice Chair
        Motion: Continue pending Commissioner Stone’s acceptance of the nomination of Vice Chair.
               Motion by: Commissioner Winkler
               2nd by: Commissioner
               Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Approval of Minutes from the March 12, 2019 meeting
       Motion: To approve minutes from the March 12, 2019 meeting as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Alder
             2nd by: Commissioner Winkler
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    3) RCOZ discussion with the Metro Township Council
    4) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances
       19.71.050 option C, appeal authority should be council, leave in Copperton and to district court.
       Develop legal description around existing old town area, including the football field.
    5) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 7:22 p.m.




Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – April 9, 2019 – Meeting Summary               Page 2 of 2
                                     Planning and Development Services
                                     2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                     Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                     slco.org/development-services




               Ordinance Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission                Meeting Date: May 14, 2019
Request: Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances
Planner: Curtis Woodward


                                       PROJECT DESCRIPTION
This month’s packet includes chapters from the zoning ordinance to continue where the commission left off last
time. As discussed, I have gone through the next several chapters, and included notes in the margins to help
explain some of the provisions as you read through the packet.




                                               SUMMARY
Attached are the following chapters of the zoning ordinance for review:
Chapter 19.72 Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ)
Chapter 19.74 Floodplain Hazard Regulations
Chapter 19.75 Geological Hazards Ordinance
Chapter 19.76 Supplementary And Qualifying Regulations
Chapter 19.77 Water Efficient Landscape Design and Development Standards
An alternative to 19.77 developed by a consultant hired by the County in 2011-2012
Chapter 19.78 Planned Unit Developments
Chapter 19.72 - FOOTHILLS AND CANYONS OVERLAY ZONE (FCOZ)




19.72.010 - Purpose.                                                                                               Commented [CW25]: The purpose statements were
                                                                                                                   revised in 2017 to reflect the emphasis of the Blue Ribbon
    The general purpose of the foothills and canyons overlay zone is to promote safe, environmentally              Commission regarding “balance” between property rights
sensitive development that strikes a reasonable balance between the rights and long-term interests of              and environmental protections.
property owners and those of the general public. Specifically, these standards are intended to:
     A.   Preserve the visual and aesthetic qualities of the foothills, canyons, and prominent ridgelines as
          defined herein, contributing to the general attractiveness and, where appropriate, the commercial
          viability of these areas.
     B.   Protect public health and safety by adopting standards designed to reduce risks associated with
          natural and man-made hazards.
     C.   Provide efficient, environmentally sensitive, and safe vehicular and pedestrian circulation.
     D.   Encourage development that conforms to the natural contours of the land and minimizes the
          scarring and erosion effects of cutting, filling and grading on hillsides, ridgelines, and steep
          slopes.
     E.   Balance private and commercial needs against the risk of destabilizing fragile soils, defacing
          steep slopes and degrading water quality.
     F.   Minimize disturbance to existing trees and vegetation, conserve wildlife habitat, protect aquifer
          recharge areas, and otherwise preserve environmentally sensitive natural areas by encouraging
          clustering, the transfer of development rights, or other design techniques to preserve the natural
          terrain.
     G.    Reduce flooding by protecting streams, drainage channels, absorption areas, and floodplains.
     H.   Protect property rights and commercial interests, and encourage economic development.
     I.   Recognize the link between environmental protection and economic prosperity in the canyons.




19.72.020 - Applicability.

A.   Geographic Area of Application. Maps delineating the boundaries of the foothills and canyons overlay
     zone are on file with the planning and development services division. Such maps, as amended, are
     incorporated into this chapter as if fully described and detailed herein.
B.   Development Activities Covered. The standards and regulations of the foothills and canyons overlay
     zone apply to all development that occurs within the mapped foothills and canyons overlay zone.
     Development includes all land disturbance activities such as grading, clearing, and excavation.
C.    Jurisdictional Exemptions. These provisions do not apply to properties owned by the state or the
     government of the United States, except as specifically authorized by state or federal statute or
     regulation, intergovernmental agreement, or other form of cooperative agreement.
D.    Recognition of Salt Lake City Extraterritorial Jurisdiction. Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township         Commented [CW26]: Salt Lake City’s jurisdiction over
     recognizes that Salt Lake City has extraterritorial jurisdiction for protection of its watershed located in   watershed areas in the Wasatch canyons is written into
     the canyons east of Salt Lake City from City Creek Canyon south to Little Cottonwood Canyon. All              State Law.
     development in the countymetro township impacting surface water, wells, storage facilities, or aquifers
     located within Salt Lake City watershed areas shall be referred to Salt Lake City to confirm compliance
     with applicable ordinances and watershed protection standards. If confirmation is not received within



                                                                                                      Page 163
     the time prescribed by countymetro township ordinance for processing applications, the planning
     commission or director may approve the application subject to confirmation being received prior to a
     building permit being issued. The countymetro township shall notify other water providers of which the
     countymetro township is aware that have protected watersheds in the canyons and may have authority
     over the proposed development within those areas. Notification shall include a copy of the application,
     any public hearing dates for the application, and contact information for the countymetro township
     planning and development services division.
E.   Mountain Resort Zone. Due to the unique and specialized uses of mountain resort properties, including         Commented [CW27]: The MRZ was written specifically to
     recreational and mixed residential and commercial uses, mountain resorts may apply for specialized            cover ski resorts. Emigration Metro took this part out of
     mountain resort ("MRZ") zoning. Should a resort choose not to apply for MRZ zoning, it shall be subject       their FCOZ ordinance.
     to all of the requirements of the underlying zone and this chapter.




19.72.030 - FCOZ Development approval procedures.

A.    Purpose. The purpose of this section is to outline the site plan application and approval process
     required for all development or construction activity, including tree/vegetation removal and grading, or
     subdivision of land, in the foothills and canyons overlay zone.
B.   Joint Applications. Where a process is already established by ordinance or agreement for review and
     approval of a land use application in the foothills and canyons (such as a subdivision, conditional use
     or permitted use site plan, development agreement, or variance process), applicable FCOZ standards
     shall be applied concurrently with the related application. If there is no related land use application
     under review, the applicant shall be subject to the following process.                                        Commented [CW28]: The process in this code is only for
C.   Application Process.                                                                                          applications unique to FCOZ. Where the ordinance already
                                                                                                                   has a process (for conditional uses or planned unit
     1.   Pre-Application Meeting.                                                                                 developments, for example) this section does not apply.
          a.   Purpose. An informal pre-application meeting with the director is required prior to submitting
               a site development plan application. The purposes of the pre-application meeting are to
               provide an opportunity for the parties to discuss:
               i.    The application submittal, review and approval process.
               ii.   The proposed development of the site and its relationship to site conditions and area
                     characteristics, including geologic, hydrologic, and environmental issues.
          b.   Scheduling of Pre-Application Meeting. To request a pre-application meeting, the applicant
               shall submit a pre-application meeting request on a form provided by the countymetro
               township, together with any required fees and materials. Upon submittal of a complete
               application, the development proposal shall be scheduled for discussion at a pre-application
               meeting.
          c.   Attendance. In addition to the director, other countymetro township participants in the pre-
               application meeting may include representatives from the health department, countymetro
               township engineer's office, fire department, Salt Lake City department of public utilities, and
               any other person or entity the countymetro township deems appropriate
     2.   Site Development Plan.
          a.   Application.
               i.    Upon conclusion of the pre-application meeting process, an applicant seeking approval
                      of a development plan shall submit an application form, together with required maps,
                      plans, reports, special requests, and fees, to the director. All submitted materials shall
                      be available for public review.




                                                                                                      Page 164
               ii.    Following documentation of assurances provided at the pre-application meeting or field
                      inspections, the director may waive or modify submittal requirements deemed
                      unnecessary.
               iii.     The director may require additional information, as necessary, to substantiate
                      compliance with the provisions and standards of this chapter and other applicable codes
                      and ordinances. For example, the director may seek technical and policy
                      recommendations from other public agencies with related legal jurisdiction such as the
                      local health department; state division of wildlife resources; state division of forestry,
                      fire, and state lands; U.S. Forest Service; and U.S. Soil Conservation Service.
          b.   Staff Review. The director shall review the development proposal for compliance with the
               standards and processes of this ordinance, including Paragraph D below, and shall
               document findings in a written report. The report shall specify all areas of noncompliance
               with regulations together with any recommended modifications or conditions of approval to
               mitigate detrimental impacts and bring the plan into compliance, and shall be made available
               to the public and provided to the applicant (unless specifically waived by the applicant) no
               less than three business days prior to any applicable planning commission meeting.
D.    Approval Standards. The following is a summary of site development plan review standards. Failure
     to document compliance with any of the following may result in denial of a site development application.
     1.   The development is consistent with the purposes and intent of the policies, goals, and objectives
          of any applicable plan, including the Wasatch Canyons general plan, the Salt LakeCopperton
          CountyMetro township regional trails plan, and applicable community general plans, as amended.
     2.   The site plan, grading, construction, and development activities comply with the mandatory
          requirements of the FCOZ, unless modifications or waivers have been expressly granted.
     3.   The development complies with all applicable development regulations, standards, requirements,
          or plans adopted by the local or state authority, including but not limited to water quality and
          wastewater regulations.
E.   Expiration of Site Development Plan/Issuance of a Building Permit.
     1.   A building permit issued pursuant to the FCOZ site development plan approval process must
          reference all conditions or stipulations applicable to such approval. All development, construction,
          and use shall be in accordance with the approved site development plan.
     2.   An approved site development plan shall be valid for a period of twelve months from the date of
          the final approval, unless authorized as a multi-phase development.
     3.   A building permit may be obtained at any time within the twelve-month period. If substantial
          progress towards obtaining a building permit is not made within the one-year period, approval of
          the site development plan automatically lapses and the plan is null and void.
     4.   A building permit issued for any phase of a development that has received site development plan
          approval may extend the life of the site development plan for the entire development for an
          additional twelve months from the date of issuance of the building permit. If any successive
          twelve-month period expires before a building permit application is filed for a subsequent phase
          or phases, then the site development plan approval automatically lapses and the plan is null and
          void as to all undeveloped or un-built phases of the development, unless substantial progress
          toward obtaining a building permit is demonstrated.
     5.   A twelve month extension of the life of the site development plan may be obtained subject to
          paying an extension fee equal to the conditional use and subdivision extension fee in the township
          services planning review fee schedule on file with township services.
F.   Appeals. Pursuant to Section 19.92.050 of this title, any person adversely affected by a final decision
     of the zoning authority may appeal that decision to the land use hearing officer.




                                                                                                      Page 165
19.72.040 - Underlying zoning district.

A.   Conflicts. Unless specifically exempted or modified by the underlying zone, such as a mountain resort       Commented [CW29]: As an overlay zone, there are
     zone, all development shall comply with the standards of this chapter.                                      sometimes conflicts with the underlying zoning
B.   Division of Consolidated Lots. Previously platted lots consolidated into one taxable parcel may not be      requirements. This clarifies.
     re-divided into lots smaller than the minimum area required in the underlying zone.                         Commented [CW30]: This is to keep people who have
                                                                                                                 combined several old non-conforming lots from re-dividing
C.    Setbacks. Setbacks from property lines are established by the underlying zone. If no setbacks are
                                                                                                                 them.
     stated, an applicant wishing to locate a building closer than ten feet to the property line shall
     demonstrate that the structure will not place additional burden on neighboring properties by addressing
     the following factors: snow load, drainage, access, fire protection, and building code.




19.72.050 - Cluster development.                                                                                 Commented [CW31]: This is to encourage developers to
                                                                                                                 set aside larger tracts of open space by clustering lots.
A.   General Requirements. Cluster development is the grouping of residential properties on lots smaller         Clustering the lots saves the developer infrastructure costs.
     than allowed in the underlying zone to reduce infrastructure costs and environmental impacts and to
     reserve otherwise developable land for open space or recreation. Whether proposed by an applicant
     or required by the planning commission, cluster development may only be approved upon satisfaction
     of the following conditions:
     1.   The clustering proposal meets all other applicable requirements set forth in the foothills and
          canyons overlay zone or in other applicable ordinances or regulations.
     2.   The clustering proposal, compared with a more traditional site plan, better attains the policies and
          objectives of the foothills and canyons overlay zone, such as providing more natural open space,
          preserving existing trees and vegetation coverage, and preserving sensitive environmental areas
          such as stream corridors, slide areas, prominent ridgelines, wetlands, and steep slopes.
     3.    The clustering proposal shall have minimal adverse impact on adjacent properties or
          development, or, if such impacts may result, the applicant has agreed to implement appropriate
          mitigation measures such as landscape, screening, illumination standards, and other design
          features as recommended by the director to buffer and protect adjacent properties from the
          proposed clustered development.
     4.   The architecture, height, building materials, building colors, and other design features of the
          development blend with the surrounding natural landscape and are compatible with adjacent
          properties or development.
B.   Density Bonus for Cluster Development.                                                                      Commented [CW32]: An added incentive to clustering in
     1.    A cluster density bonus of up to twenty-five percent over the base density permitted in the           exchanges for preserving more open space.
          underlying zone may be available for cluster developments that satisfy the above standards while
          taking into account the bonus density.
     2.   The allowable density bonus for a cluster development is equal to twenty-five percent of the "net
          developable acreage," and must be rounded to the nearest whole number, but in no case less
          than one.
     3.   The density bonus for clustering allowed pursuant to subsection B.1 is not allowed in the MRZ.
C.   Cluster Development Design.
     1.   The undeveloped area of the development site shall be preserved as active or passive natural
          open space. Natural open space areas shall conform with any adopted countymetro township
          open space and/or trail plans, provide contiguity with adjacent natural open space and/or



                                                                                                    Page 166
          conservation areas, protect unique natural, historic, or cultural site features and resources, and
          avoid fragmentation of conservation areas within the site
     2.   The maximum number of lots allowed in a single cluster is twenty lots. Each cluster shall be
          separated from other residential clusters by a minimum of one-hundred feet.
     3.   The layout of a cluster development shall protect significant natural resources on or adjacent to
          the site. Natural resources include riparian areas, wetlands, ecological resources, steep slopes
          and ridgelines, and wildlife habitat and corridors. The overall site design shall employ the site's
          natural topography to hide multiple residential clusters from the sight of adjacent clusters.
     4.   A cluster development shall preserve the open sky backdrop above any ridgelines and, where
          possible, significant views of the natural landscape as viewed from adjacent streets.
D.   Illustration of Cluster Development. Figure 19.72.1: Cluster Development illustrates recommended
     cluster development.
FIGURE 19.72.1: CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT




19.72.060 - Slope protection.                                                                                   Commented [CW33]: Slopes over 30% are considered
                                                                                                                “unbuildable, with some exceptions available for pre-
A.   Slope Protection Standards.                                                                                existing lots to build on slopes up to 40%. Also prevents
                                                                                                                building on prominent ridgelines.
     1.   Unless otherwise allowed in this Title, no development activities, including clearing, excavation,
          grading, and construction, are allowed on slopes greater than thirty percent.
     2.   Structures shall be set back from ascending or descending slopes greater than thirty percent in
          accordance with the requirements of the current adopted building code.
B.   Development on Ridgelines.
     1.   Unless otherwise allowed in this title, no development may break the horizon line, defined as the
          point where the ridge visibly meets the sky as viewed from public rights of way or trails.
     2.   Unless otherwise allowed in this title, no development may be located within one-hundred feet
          (map distance) from either side of the crest of a protected ridgeline designated as such in an
          adopted countymetro township master plan or incorporated by other ordinance.
     3.   Figure 19.72.2: Ridgeline Development illustrates recommended ridgeline development.
FIGURE 19.72.2: RIDGELINE DEVELOPMENT




                                                                                                   Page 167
C.   Natural Open Space within Steep Slopes. Unless expressly allowed in this title, all areas with slope
     greater than thirty percent must remain in natural private or public open space, free of any development
     activities.
D.   Waiver of Slope Protection Standards for Lots of Record.
     1.   The planning commission may only waive or modify the following slope protection standards as
          applied to development on lots of record and in subdivisions that were approved prior to the
          effective date of this chapter:
          a.   Slope protection standards prohibiting development on slopes greater than thirty percent or
               in ridge line protection areas, as set forth above.
          b.   Limitations on the crossing of slopes greater than thirty percent by any street, road, private
               access road or other vehicular route, as addressed in Subsection 19.72.080.
     2.   The planning commission may only waive these standards upon satisfaction of the following
          criteria:
          a.   Strict compliance with the above slope protection standards.
               i.     Renders the site undevelopable, or
               ii.    Results in substantial economic hardship not created by the applicant or otherwise self-
                      imposed, or
               iii.   Results in a building location that requires excessive grading, vegetation removal, or
                      driveway distances in conflict with the purposes of this chapter; and
          b.    The development substantially conforms to all other development, site design, and
               environmental standards of this chapter and in all other applicable ordinances and codes.
     3.   In granting a waiver from slope and ridge line protection standards, the planning commission may
          impose reasonable conditions to mitigate the impacts, if any, that the planning commission
          determines the proposed development has on adjacent properties and the surrounding
          environment.
     4.   Notwithstanding its discretion to grant waivers for lots of record from the slope protection
          standards set forth in this chapter, in no case shall the planning commission permit development
          other than roads on slopes greater than forty percent.
     5.   In the interest of protecting the public health, safety, and welfare, the countymetro township may
          pursue negotiations with a property owner to purchase their property as open space as an
          alternative to granting a waiver. These negotiations, as long as they are performed in good faith,
          shall not delay the countymetro township's processing of any land use application.




                                                                                                    Page 168
19.72.070 - Grading standards.                                                                                      Commented [CW34]: Limits on how much you can
                                                                                                                    change the grade and on size of retaining walls.
A.   Prior to issuance of a building permit in accordance with a grading and excavation plan and report for
     the site approved by the development services engineer; no grading, excavation, or tree/vegetation
     removal is permitted, whether to provide for a building site, for on-site utilities or services, or for any
     roads or driveways.
B.   Figure 19.72.3: Cutting and Grading illustrates recommended development that minimizes cuts.
FIGURE 19.72.3: CUTTING AND GRADING




C.   The original, natural grade of a lot may not be raised or lowered more than four feet at any point for
     construction of any structure or improvement, except:
     1.   The site's original grade may be raised or lowered eight feet if a retaining wall is used to reduce
          the steepness of man-made slopes, provided that the retaining wall complies with the
          requirements of subsection I. below.
     2.   The site's original grade may be raised or lowered more than eight feet with terracing, as specified
          in subsection I. below.
D.    Separate building pads for accessory buildings other than private garages, (such as barns, or
     recreational structures such as tennis courts, swimming pools, and similar facilities) are prohibited
     except where the natural slope is twenty percent or less.
E.   The following limits apply to graded or filled man-made slopes:
     1.   Slopes of twenty-five percent or less are encouraged wherever possible.
     2.   Graded or filled man-made slopes may not exceed a slope of fifty percent.
     3.    Cut man-made surfaces or slopes may not exceed a slope of fifty percent unless it is
          substantiated, on the basis of a site investigation and submittal of a soils engineering or
          geotechnical report prepared and certified by a qualified professional, that a cut at a steeper slope
          will be stable and will not create a hazard to public or private property.
     4.   All cut, filled, and graded slopes shall be re-contoured to the natural, varied contour of the
          surrounding terrain.
F.   Any slope exposed or created in new development shall be landscaped or re-vegetated pursuant to
     the standards and provisions of this chapter.
G.    Excavation for footings and foundations shall be minimized to lessen site disturbance and ensure
     compatibility with hillside and sloped terrain. Intended excavation must be supported by detailed
     engineering plans submitted as part of the application for site plan approval.
H.   Use of retaining walls is encouraged to reduce the steepness of man-made slopes and to provide
     planting pockets conducive to re-vegetation.
     1.   If a single retaining wall is used, one vertical retaining wall up to eight feet in height is permitted
          to reduce excavation and embankment.




                                                                                                       Page 169
     2.   Terracing is limited to two walls with a maximum vertical height of six feet each. The width of a
          terrace shall be a minimum of a one-to-one ratio with the height of the wall. Terraces are
          measured from the back of the lower wall to the face of the upper wall. Terraces created between
          retaining walls shall be permanently landscaped or re-vegetated as required by this chapter.
     3.   Figure 19.72.4: Terracing and Retaining Walls illustrates recommended terracing.

FIGURE 19.72.4: TERRACING & RETAINING WALLS




     4.   Retaining walls shall be faced with stone or earth-colored materials similar to the surrounding
          natural landscape, as required by the design standards of foothills and canyons overlay zone.
     5.   All retaining walls shall comply with the minimum standards of the International Building Code.
I.   Except for restoration and maintenance activities authorized by the state engineer and county flood
     control division, filling or dredging of water courses, wetlands, gullies, stream beds, or stormwater
     runoff channels is prohibited. Bridge construction is allowed pursuant to the standards set forth of this
     section.



                                                                                                    Page 170
J.   Where detention basins and other storm and erosion control facilities are required, any negative visual
     and aesthetic impacts on the natural landscape and topography shall be minimized. See Figure
     19.72.5: Recommended Detention Basin Treatment which illustrates recommended treatment.
     1.   Detention basins shall be free form, following the natural landforms. If such forms do not exist,
          the basin shall be shaped to emulate a naturally formed depression.
     2.   Redistributing soils from basin construction to natural side slopes around the perimeter of the
          basin is encouraged. Side slopes are limited to a maximum slope of three-to-one. These slopes
          are created to filter, redirect or soften views of the basin. Total screening of basins is not required.
          Side slopes shall be varied to replicate natural conditions.
     3.   Naturalized planting themes are required for basins. Trees and shrubs may be grouped in informal
          patterns to emulate the natural environment but may not reduce the volume of the basin.
     4.   The ground surface of the basin and surrounding disturbed areas shall be covered with native
          grass mixture or other appropriate groundcover. It is the intent to provide a natural cover that
          does not require regular mowing or fertilization.
     5.   Appropriate erosion control measures are required on all slopes.
FIGURE 19.72.5: RECOMMENDED DETENTION BASIN TREATMENT




19.72.080 - Site access.                                                                                             Commented [CW35]: Regulates the maximum slope
                                                                                                                     allowable for access roads as well as how much of that road
A.   Motor vehicle access to a building or development site shall be by road (including private access road),        may cross slopes over 30%.
     street, alley, or driveway. Any road, street, alley, or driveway constructed after the enactment of this
     chapter shall comply with the applicable requirements of this section.
B.   Streets, roads, alleys, or driveways shall comply with the Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township
     highway ordinance and fire authority regulations.
C.   Streets, roads, alleys, or driveways may not cross slopes averaging (in any fifty feet interval) between
     thirty percent and fifty percent unless specifically authorized by the Planning Commission, upon the
     favorable recommendation of the director and public works engineer, after finding that all of the
     following conditions and constraints are met:
     1.   No alternate location for access is feasible or available.


                                                                                                       Page 171
     2.   No individual segment or increment of the street, road, alley, or driveway in excess of one hundred
          feet in length may cross slopes averaging between thirty percent and fifty percent.
     3.   The cumulative length of individual segments or increments that cross slopes averaging between
          thirty percent and fifty percent may not exceed ten percent of the total length of the street, road,
          alley, or driveway.
     4.   All crossings shall be designed and constructed to eliminate significant adverse environmental or
          safety impacts.
D.   Under no circumstances shall any segment of a street, road, alley, or driveway cross slopes averaging
     greater than fifty percent.
E.    Streets, roads, alleys, or driveways shall follow natural contour lines where possible. If the natural
     contour lines do not reasonably facilitate access to the development site, a private access road or
     driveway may be designed and submitted for approval with a slope not to exceed the requirements set
     forth in Title 14 of the countymetro township Code. Figure 19.72.6: Recommended Access Route
     Configuration illustrates the access route following natural contours.
FIGURE 19.72.6: RECOMMENDED ACCESS ROUTE CONFIGURATION




F.   Grading for streets, roads, alleys, or driveways is limited to the paved portion of the right-of-way, plus
     up to an additional ten feet on either side of the pavement as approved. However, when developing
     access on slopes in excess of twenty-five percent, only the paved portion of the right-of-way used for
     vehicular travel, plus the minimum area required for any additional improvements, such as curb, gutter
     or sidewalk, may be graded. The remainder of the access right-of-way must be left undisturbed.
G.   Streets or roads may be required to provide access or maintain existing access to adjacent lands for
     vehicles, pedestrians, emergency services, and essential service and maintenance equipment.
H.   Private access roads and driveways shall ensure safe, convenient and adequate access to individual
     buildings. Driveway access to a development must be consistent with Salt LakeCopperton
     CountyMetro township general plans. In addition, provision of private access road and driveway
     access is subject to the following requirements:
     1.   All private access roads and driveways shall comply with the Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro
          township highway ordinances and fire authority regulations.
     2.   Private access roads and driveways greater than one hundred fifty feet in length shall meet the
          following requirements:



                                                                                                     Page 172
          a.   Provide a turnaround that meets the countymetro township's road/street and fire authority
               standards.
          b.   Provide an adequate number of spaced turn-outs along the length of the private access road
               or driveway, as determined by the public works engineer in consultation with the fire
               authority.
     3.   If variation from the above standards is sought, the applicant shall apply for a written Code
          Modification Approval from the fire authority that specifies any additional requirements that must
          be completed prior to construction.
     4.   Shared private roads and driveways are encouraged between adjacent lots.
     5.   Private access roads and driveways to a building site shall have direct access to a public street
          or to a private right-of-way previously approved by the planning commission.
     6.   Finished grades shall comply with the following:
          a.   Finished private access roads and driveways are limited to a maximum grade of twelve
               percent, or as determined by the public works engineer on a case-by-case basis based on
               health and safety concerns and the need for adequate access for countymetro township
               service providers. In no case, however, may the public works engineer approve a maximum
               grade greater than fifteen percent.
          b.   Private access road and driveway grades within twenty feet of the roadway are limited to ten
               percent slope.
     7.   The director has discretion to administratively offer relief of the driveway access standards by a
          maximum of twenty-five percent where applicable upon satisfaction of the following criteria:
          a.   The modification is designed to yield:
               i.     More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas, rock
                      outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;
               ii.    Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or
               iii.   Better protection of wildlife habitat; or,
          b.   Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.




19.72.090 - Trails.                                                                                                Commented [CW36]: This section is about providing
                                                                                                                   access to existing or master-planned trails.
A.   All proposed development in the foothills and canyons overlay zone shall be platted consistent with
     countymetro township general plans regarding trails, including those portions of the adopted Salt
     LakeCopperton CountyMetro township parks and recreation master plan that address trails and trail
     access locations. A dedication of private land may be required for public trails if the required dedication
     complies with the exaction requirements set forth in Utah Code Section 17-27a10-9a-507(1).
B.   All land offered for dedication for trails or public access to trails must be verified on the ground by the
     director before approval of the site plan. The countymetro township has the option of rejecting the
     applicant's offered land dedication if the proposed dedication does not comply with the exaction
     requirements set forth in Utah Code Section 17-27a10-9a-507(1), or the requirements set forth in
     subsection (C) below; the countymetro township may suggest more suitable land for the applicant's
     consideration that does comply with each of these requirements.
C.   Land offered for dedication for trails must be located so that:
     1.   Proposed trail construction and maintenance is feasible.
     2.   Side slopes do not exceed seventy percent.



                                                                                                      Page 173
     3.    Rock cliffs and other insurmountable physical obstructions are avoided.
D.    At the countymetro township's sole option, dedications for trails or public access may be of a fee or
     less-than-fee interest to either the countymetro township, another unit of government, or non-profit
     land conservation organization approved by the countymetro township.
E.    The CountyMetro township may allow a density bonus up to twenty-five percent of the maximum
     allowable density attributable to areas of the site with greater than thirty percent slope to be transferred
     to the developable areas of the site where the applicant demonstrates that the offered dedication is
     beyond what would be roughly proportional to the demand for such trails or trail access generated by
     the proposed development. The countymetro township may reduce the applicable minimum lot area
     requirement within the site's developable area if necessary to accommodate the transferred density.




19.72.100 - Fences.                                                                                                  Commented [CW37]: Very restrictive. Emigration
                                                                                                                     Canyon adopted changes to this.
A.   No fence may be constructed or installed unless shown on an approved site plan.
B.   No fence in excess of forty-two inches in height may be constructed or installed outside the designated
     limits of disturbance on a site, unless required by the countymetro township, such as fenced corrals
     for horses or other animals. Fences are subject to the intersecting streets and clear visibility restrictions
     of this title.
C.   Fences in front yards and along roadways may not exceed forty-two inches in height.
D.    Fences in identified wildlife corridors are strongly discouraged, but in no case may exceed forty-two
     inches in height.
E.   Fences shall conform to the design standards of this section.


19.72.100         FENCES                                                                                             Commented [CW38]: This is Emigration’s version of
                                                                                                                     “Fences”
          A. No fence may be constructed or installed unless shown on an approved site plan.
          B. Fences shall conform to the design standards of 19.72.170(W).
          C. Except as allowed in this section, no fence in excess of forty-two (42) inches in height may be
             constructed or installed. Fences are subject to the Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility
             restrictions of this Title.
          D. Exceptions:
              1. Fences within the established limits of disturbance, which are used to screen outdoor
                 patio or services areas up to 900 square feet, may exceed 42 inches in height, provided
                 they do not block identified wildlife corridors.
              2. Privacy barriers along Emigration Canyon Road may exceed 42 inches in height
                 provided:
                  a. The visual impact is mitigated by providing a 5-foot minimum horizontal articulation a
                     minimum of every 40 feet of linear fence or wall, or by providing landscaping between
                     the fence or wall and the road;
                  b. The fence or wall is set back a minimum of 20 feet from the paved surface of the
                     road:
                  c.   The fence or wall is compliant with section 19.76.160 - Intersecting streets and clear
                       visibility; and,




                                                                                                        Page 174
                      d. The fence or wall contains a wildlife crossing opening at least 6 feet wide a minimum
                         of every 100 linear feet. This opening may be accomplished between fences or walls
                         on adjoining properties by setting each fence or wall 3 feet from the adjoining side
                         property line.
               3. The planning commission may approve fences that exceed the limits set forth in this
                  Chapter as necessary to corral animals, to secure telecommunication facilities, public
                  utilities, or other similar facilities, or to secure property upon finding that:
                      a. There are topographic hardships unique to the property;
                      b. Overriding public safety issues justify the proposed fence; or,
                      c. The purposes of the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone respecting protection of
                         sensitive slopes, wildlife habitat, streams, and/or natural vegetation are better served
                         by approval of a site development plan that includes the proposed alternative fencing
                         design.
               4. In no case shall a fence or wall allowed under D.1 through D.3 above be taller than 7 feet
                  in height.




19.72.110 - Tree and vegetation protection.                                                                         Commented [CW39]: This section is designed to
                                                                                                                    incentivize preserving existing trees as much as possible,
A.   Purpose. Protection of existing tree and vegetation cover is intended to:                                      while also recognizing that fire dangers require the creation
                                                                                                                    of “defensible space,” meaning some trees and vegetation
     1.   Preserve the visual and aesthetic qualities of the countymetro township's foothills and canyons.
                                                                                                                    will need to be removed.
     2.   Encourage site design techniques that preserve the natural environment and enhance the
          developed environment.
     3.   Control erosion, slippage, and sediment run-off into streams and waterways.
     4.   Increase slope stability.
     5.   Protect wildlife habitat and migration corridors.
     6.   Conserve energy, in proximity to structures, by reducing building heating and cooling costs.
B.   Applicability. These provisions apply to all development in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, with
     the following exceptions:
     1.   The removal of dead or naturally fallen trees or vegetation to protect public health, safety, and
          welfare.
     2.   The selective and limited removal of trees or vegetation necessary to obtain clear visibility at
          driveways or intersections, to perform authorized field survey work, or to protect structures from
          fire consistent with the Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code.
     3.   The removal of trees or vegetation on land zoned or lawfully used for agricultural and forestry
          activities, including tree farms, or pursuant to approved forest management programs. In the
          event a site is substantially cleared of trees pursuant to such legitimate activities, no development
          or site plan applications for other types of development may be accepted by the countymetro
          township within thirty-six months from the date of the clearing.
     4.   The director has discretion to administratively offer relief of the standards in this section by up to
          twenty-five percent if either of the following circumstances applies:
          a.     The modification is designed to yield:
                 i.     More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas, rock
                        outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;



                                                                                                        Page 175
               ii.    Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or
               iii.   Better protection of wildlife habitat; or,
          b.   Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.
C.   Tree/Vegetation Removal.
     1.   Outside the Limits of Disturbance. No trees or vegetation may be removed outside the approved
          limits of disturbance unless specifically exempted by this section.
     2.   Within the Limits of Disturbance. Significant trees removed from within the limits of disturbance
          shall be replaced as set forth in this section.
     3.   Wildfire Hazards and Tree/Vegetation Removal. Defensible space is defined as the required
          space between a structure and wildland area that, under normal conditions, creates a sufficient
          buffer to slow or halt the spread of wildfire to a structure. Appropriate defensible space
          surrounding a structure is established in Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code incorporated in UFA
          Wildland-Urban Interface Site Plan/Development Review Guide. A copy of the approved fire
          protection plan shall be submitted to the zoning administrator for incorporation into the final
          approval documents.
     4.   Tree/Vegetation Removal for Views Prohibited. No trees or vegetation may be removed solely for
          the purpose of providing open views to or from structures on a site.
D.   Replacement of Significant Trees.
     1.   When a significant tree is removed from inside the established limits of disturbance, which
          removal is not required by wildland-urban interface standards referenced in C.3. above, the
          applicant or developer shall replace such tree(s) on the lot, according to the following schedule
          and requirements:
          a.   A significant tree that is removed shall be replaced by two trees with a minimum size of one
               inch caliper for deciduous trees and a minimum height of four feet for coniferous trees in
               locations on the lot that are appropriate, feasible, and practical, and that comply with fire
               requirements and standards, as determined by the zoning administrator.
          b.   Replacement trees shall be maintained through an establishment period of at least two years.
               The applicant shall post a bond in the amount of ten percent of the value of all replacement
               trees guaranteeing their health and survival during the first year of the establishment period.
     2.   If the remainder of the lot outside the permitted limits of disturbance is heavily wooded, defined
          as areas of trees with canopies that cover eighty percent of the area, and is not suitable to the
          planting of replacement trees, the requirement to plant replacement trees requirement may be
          waived by the zoning administrator.
     3.   Planting replacement trees may be allowed by the zoning administrator on parcels within the
          subdivision or adjoining open space or forest service land upon the written consent of the property
          owner or representative of the property owner of the parcel(s) where the trees are being planted.
          In order to minimize disturbance of public land, saplings may be used in lieu of the larger trees
          listed in subsection 1.(a) above at the rate of ten saplings per required replacement tree, for trees
          planted on publicly owned land.
E.   Revegetation and Land Reclamation Plan.
     1.   On a parcel of land that has been or will be altered from its natural condition by man-made
          activities, a revegetation and land reclamation plan prepared and certified by a qualified
          professional may be required for review and approval by the director. The plan shall incorporate
          the elements of the fire protection plan, and shall indicate a timeframe for revegetation that is
          acceptable to the countymetro township and that takes into account optimal seasonal growing
          conditions.




                                                                                                     Page 176
     2.   The revegetation and land reclamation plan shall depict the type, size, number, and location of
          any vegetation and trees to be planted and illustrate how the site will be recontoured with sufficient
          topsoil to ensure that vegetation is successful. All new trees shown on the plan shall:
          a.   Comply with the Vegetation Clearance Guidelines of the Wildland-Urban Interface Code;
          b.   Be spaced no closer than twenty feet on center; and,
          c.   Be on the Utah Fire Resistive Species list in the Wildland-Urban Interface Code.
     3.   Any slope exposed or created in new development shall be landscaped or revegetated with native
          or adapted trees and plant material. New vegetation shall be equivalent to or exceed the amount
          and erosion-control characteristics of the original vegetation cover in order to mitigate adverse
          environmental and visual effects.
     4.   On man-made slopes of twenty-five percent or greater, plant materials with deep rooting
          characteristics shall be selected to minimize erosion and reduce surface runoff. The planting
          basin shall be kept level with a raised berm around the base of the plant to help retain moisture.
     5.   Topsoil that is removed during construction may be conserved for later use on areas requiring
          revegetation or landscaping, such as cut-and-fill slopes.
     6.   The land reclamation plan may not include landscaping or other elements that conflict with the
          approved fire protection plan.
F.   Tree/Vegetation Protection During Construction and Grading Activities.
     1.   Limits of disturbance, as established in Section 19.72.160, shall be shown on the final plans for
          development and shall be clearly delineated on site with fencing or other separation methods
          approved by the director prior to the commencement of excavation, grading, or construction
          activities on the site.
     2.   Within the limits of disturbance, fencing, at a minimum, shall be placed around each significant
          tree that will not be removed and around stands of twelve or more smaller trees. Such fencing
          shall be placed at the edge of the individual or outermost tree's drip zone. No construction,
          grading, equipment or material storage, or any other activity is allowed within the drip zone, and
          the fencing must remain in place until all land alteration, construction, and development activities
          are completed.
     3.   If it is necessary to fill over the root zone, compacted soils shall be avoided by sandwiching fabric,
          rocks, and more fabric under the area to be filled.
     4.   If fill creates a tree well or depression around a tree or shrubs, such area shall be filled in or
          drained so that the vegetation is not drowned by the pooling of rainfall or irrigation.
     5.   If a significant tree that will not be removed has roots that are cut, the branches shall be trimmed
          by an amount equal to the percent of roots that were lost. Cutting more than thirty percent is
          prohibited. Roots shall be pruned cleanly prior to digging and not ripped off by heavy equipment.
          If the tree whose roots have been cut dies within a two year period, the replacement provision in
          section D above applies.
     6.   Utility trenches near trees shall be avoided. If a line must be near a tree, tunneling, auguring, or
          other mitigation measures shall be used.
G.   Tree Removal not Authorized by this Section.                                                                  Commented [CW40]: This section was added to penalize
     1.    If a significant tree(s) is removed contrary to any provision in this section, the person(s)            people who blatantly remove large numbers of trees in
          responsible for the removal shall pay to the countymetro township the value of the tree(s).              violation of the ordinance.

          a.   The value of the tree(s) shall be determined by a tree appraiser who is an ISA (International
               Society of Arboriculture) certified arborist with at least five years of experience appraising
               trees using the appraisal methods outlined in the current edition of "The Guide for Plant
               Appraisal," authored by the Council of Tree and Landscape Appraisers (CTLA). The
               appraiser shall prepare an appraisal report using these methods, and adding to the value


                                                                                                      Page 177
               from these methods an analysis of the tree(s) contributory value, i.e., the value that the
               tree(s) contributed to the overall value of the property on which they were located.
          b.   The appraiser shall be chosen by the person(s) responsible for the removal and the
               countymetro township.
          c.   The person(s) responsible for the removal shall pay the cost of the appraisal.
     2.   If a significant tree(s) is removed contrary to this section, all development and countymetro
          township permitting and processing of the land use application shall be put on hold for up to sixty
          days from the date of countymetro township's discovery of removal. During that time, the
          countymetro township will inventory the significant tree(s) that were removed, and the process of
          valuing the tree(s) that were removed shall commence, pursuant to paragraph 1 above.
     3.   The person(s) responsible for removing the significant tree(s) shall pay for the cost of site
          restoration, including the removal of the stump(s). The stump(s) may not be removed until an
          appraisal is completed pursuant to paragraph 1. above.
     4.   The person(s) responsible for removing the significant tree(s) shall also replace the tree(s) in
          accordance with the provisions in this section. The bond referenced in subsection (D)(1)(b) of this
          section shall be a surety bond for those that unlawfully remove trees.
In addition to the civil penalties provided in paragraphs 1—4 of this subsection (G), the person(s)
responsible for removing the significant tree(s) may also be subject to criminal prosecution as a Class B
misdemeanor for each significant tree unlawfully removed.




19.72.120 - Natural hazards.

      A natural hazards report, together with geotechnical, slope, soils, and grading reports, may be required
as provided in 19.75,030 "Geological Hazards" and Chapter 19.74 "Floodplain Hazards." The countymetro
township shall review all natural hazards reports and recommendations in the report and may require,
consistent with the above ordinances, that preliminary conditions be satisfied prior to final approval of the
site plan.




19.72.130 - Stream corridor and wetlands protection.                                                             Commented [CW41]: The appropriate setback from
                                                                                                                 streams to prevent contamination and stream degradation
A.   Purpose. The following requirements and standards are intended to promote, preserve, and enhance            was a very much debated topic when FCOZ was revised in
     the important hydrologic, biological, ecological, aesthetic, recreational, and educational functions of     2016-2017. Early drafts proposed just setting the setback at
     stream corridors, associated riparian areas, and wetlands.                                                  50’ rather than having a 100’ setback with exceptions
                                                                                                                 available (which would have matched the Health Code and
B.   Applicability. Unless previously delineated by Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township, boundaries          the EPA requirements). However, the final approved FCOZ
     for stream corridors and wetland areas are delineated according to the following standards:                 kept stream and wetland setbacks as they had previously
     1.   Stream corridor and wetland area delineation shall be performed by a qualified engineer or other       been.
          qualified professional with demonstrated experience and expertise to conduct the required site
          analysis. Delineations are subject to the approval of the director.
     2.   Stream corridors shall be delineated at the ordinary high-water mark. Stream corridors do not
          include irrigation ditches that do not contribute to the preservation and enhancement of fisheries
          or wildlife.
     3.   Boundary delineation of wetlands are established using the current Federal Manual for Identifying
          and Delineating Jurisdictional Wetlands jointly published by the U.S. Environmental Protection
          Agency, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Army Corps of Engineers, and the Soil Conservation
          Service.



                                                                                                    Page 178
C.   Prohibited Activities. No development activity may be conducted that disturbs, removes, fills, dredges,
     clears, destroys, or alters, stream corridors or wetlands, including vegetation, except for restoration
     and maintenance activities allowed in this title as approved by Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro
     township flood control, the state engineer's office, and other applicable authorities.
D.   Setbacks.
     1.   Perennial Stream Corridors. All buildings, accessory structures, parking lots, and all on-site
          wastewater disposal systems shall be set back at least one-hundred feet horizontally from the
          ordinary high-water mark of perennial stream corridors. (See Figure 19.72.7: Setback from
          Stream Corridor)

FIGURE 19.72.7: SETBACK FROM STREAM CORRIDOR




     2.   Wetlands. All buildings, accessory structures, and parking lots shall be set back at least fifty feet,
          and all on-site wastewater disposal systems shall be set back at least one hundred feet
          horizontally from the delineated edge of a wetland.
     3.   Ephemeral Streams. Leach fields shall be set back one hundred feet from the channel of an
          ephemeral stream. All buildings, accessory structures, and parking areas or parking lots shall be
          set back at least fifty feet from the channel of an ephemeral stream. The zoning administrator
          may recommend to the land use authority modifications to this prohibition upon finding that the
          modification is likely to cause minimal adverse environmental impact or that such impact may be
          substantially mitigated. For properties located within the Salt Lake City watershed, the zoning
          administrator shall consult with Salt Lake City public utilities prior to making a recommendation.
     4.   Natural Open Space/Landscape Credit for Setback Areas. All setback areas are credited toward
          any relevant private natural open space or landscape requirements, but are not credited toward
          trail access dedication requirements.
E.   Preservation of Vegetation. All existing vegetation within the stream corridor or wetland setback area
     shall be preserved to provide adequate screening or to repair damaged riparian areas, supplemented
     where necessary with additional native or adapted planting and landscaping.
F.   Bridges. Any bridge over a stream corridor and within the stream setback area may be approved
     provided the director affirms that the bridge is planned and constructed in such a manner as to
     minimize impacts on the stream corridor.
G.   Modification of Setbacks.




                                                                                                      Page 179
     1.   The director has discretion to administratively reduce the perennial stream corridor and wetlands
          setbacks by a maximum of twenty-five percent where applicable upon satisfaction of the following
          criteria:
          a.   The modification is designed to yield:
               i.     More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas, rock
                      outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;
               ii.    Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or
               iii.   Better protection of wildlife habitat; or,
          b.   Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.
H.   Perennial Stream Corridor and Wetland Setback Requirements for Lots of Record.
     1.   Existing Legally-Established Structures. A structure legally existing on the effective date of this
          chapter that is within fifty feet of a perennial stream corridor or wetland may be renovated, altered,
          or expanded or reconstructed if damaged or destroyed by fire, flood, or act of nature as follows:
          a.   Renovations or alterations or reconstruction of a damaged or destroyed structure that will
               not increase the gross floor area of the original, existing structure are permitted.
          b.   Renovations, alterations, or expansions that will increase the gross floor area of the original,
               existing structure are limited to a cumulative total expansion of no more than two hundred
               fifty square feet of gross floor area located closer than fifty feet to a perennial stream corridor
               or wetland.
          c.   Renovations, alterations, expansions, or reconstruction of a damaged or destroyed structure
               that increase the gross floor area of the original, existing structure but which are no closer
               than fifty feet to a perennial stream corridor or wetland are permitted, subject to compliance
               with all other applicable regulations and standards.
     2.   New Structures. For new developments, the director may authorize construction to no closer than
          fifty feet from a perennial stream corridor or to no closer than twenty-five feet from a wetland
          subject to the following criteria:
          a.   Denial of an encroachment of more than the twenty-five percent into the stream or wetlands
               setback area allowed by Section 19.72.130(G) would render the site undevelopable.
          b.   No alternative location for the development further away from the stream or wetland is
               feasible or available.
          c.    Creative architectural or environmental solutions have been incorporated into the
               development proposal in order to ensure that the purposes of stream corridor protection, as
               set forth in Subsection 19.72.130 are achieved.
          d.   No federal or state laws, or other countymetro township ordinances or regulations are
               violated.
     3.   Limitation. In allowing for the preceding improvements, the director may not:
          a.   Increase the maximum limits of disturbance set forth in Subsection 19.72.160.
          b.   Authorize the encroachment of more than five-hundred square feet of gross floor area of
               structural improvements (cumulative total) within the land area between seventy-five feet
               and fifty feet from perennial stream corridor or within the land area between fifty and twenty-
               five feet of a wetland.
     4.   In the interest of protecting the public health, safety, and welfare, the countymetro township may
          pursue negotiations with a property owner to purchase their property as open space as an
          alternative to granting a waiver. These negotiations, as long as they are performed in good faith,
          shall not delay the countymetro township's processing of any land use application.



                                                                                                       Page 180
19.72.140 - Wildlife habitat protection.                                                                         Commented [CW42]: Previous versions of FCOZ went
                                                                                                                 into much more detail about wildlife protection, but since
A.   Purpose. Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township finds that its foothills and canyon areas provide          the actual measurable requirements were already
     important wildlife habitat for a wide variety of animal and bird species. In combination with the           contained elsewhere in the code (such as limits on fencing
     tree/vegetation and stream corridor/wetlands protection standards, the following requirements have          and stream and wetland setbacks).
     been developed to promote and preserve valuable wildlife habitats and to protect them from adverse
     effects and potentially irreversible impacts.
B.   Development Limitations in Areas of Critical Habitat. All development subject to these provisions shall
     incorporate the following principles in establishing the limits of disturbance and siting buildings,
     structures, roads, trails, and other similar facilities:
     1.   Facilitate wildlife movement across areas dominated by human activities by:
          a.   Maintaining connections between adjacent natural open space parcels and areas, and
               between natural open space parcels and areas in close proximity.
          b.   Prohibiting fencing types that inhibit the movement of wildlife species.
     2.   Mimic features of the local natural landscape by:
          a.   Minimizing disturbance to trees, the understory, and other structural landscape features
               during construction.
          b.   Providing selective plantings on the property that enhance the habitat value for the endemic
               wildlife population.




19.72.150 - Traffic studies.

A.   Traffic and Parking Impact Study Required. A traffic and parking impact study is required as part of
     the site plan application for the following developments in the foothills and canyons overlay zone:
     1.   All residential development that creates a projected increase in traffic volumes equal to or greater
          than ten percent of current road/street capacity as determined by the public works engineer.
     2.   All non-residential development that creates a projected increase in traffic volumes equal to or
          greater than fifty trip-ends per peak hour.
     3.   All development that affects a roadway identified by the countymetro township transportation
          engineering manager as having an unacceptable level of service (LOS) based on AASHTO
          guidelines and the Highway Capacity Manual.
B.    Required Submittals. A traffic and parking impact study must address, at a minimum, the items
     specified in the "Submittal Requirements for Development Proposals in the Foothills and Canyons
     Overlay Zone," which is incorporated by reference.
C.   Review and Improvements. All development subject to this section must demonstrate that the peak
     hour levels of service on adjacent roadways and at impacted intersections after development will
     comply with current Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township transportation and impact mitigation
     policies and recommendations.
D.    Circulation and Access Plan. All development required by this subsection to submit a traffic and
     parking impact study is also required to provide a circulation and access plan to ensure free-flowing
     access to the site and avoid congestion and unsafe conditions on adjacent public roads and streets.
     The circulation and access plan may be combined with the required traffic and parking impact study.




                                                                                                    Page 181
19.72.160 - Limits of disturbance.                                                                                   Commented [CW43]: FCOZ limits the amount of ground
                                                                                                                     that can be disturbed for all development activities. That
A.    Scope and General Requirements. "Limits of disturbance" must be established on the site plan,                  area must be fenced off or demarked prior to construction
     indicating the specific area(s) of a site where construction and development activity must be contained.        beginning.
     (See Figure 19.72.8).
FIGURE 19.72.8: ILLUSTRATION OF LIMITS OF DISTURBANCE




B.   Purpose for Limits of Disturbance. Limits of disturbance are established for the following purposes:
     1.   Minimizing visual impacts from the development including, but not limited to: screening from
          adjacent and downhill properties, ridgeline area protection, and protection of scenic views.
     2.   Erosion prevention and control including, but not limited to, protection of steep slopes and natural
          drainage channels.
     3.   Fire prevention and safety including, but not limited to, location of trees and vegetation near
          structures.
     4.   Preservation of tree cover, vegetation, and the site's natural topography.
     5.   Conservation of water including, but not limited to, preservation of existing native vegetation,
          reduction in amounts of irrigated areas, and similar considerations.
     6.   Wildlife habitat protection including, but not limited to, preservation of critical wildlife habitat and
          migration corridors and routes.
     7.   Stream corridor and wetland protection and buffering.
C.    Limits of Disturbance May Be Noncontiguous. Limits of disturbance necessary to accommodate
     proposed development may be noncontiguous in order to best achieve the above purposes.
D.   Maximum Limits of Disturbance.
     1.   For single family residential uses on lots or parcels less than one acre in size, the limits of
          disturbance are limited to twenty thousand square feet.
     2.   For single family residential uses on lots or parcels one acre in size or greater, the limits of
          disturbance are limited to twenty thousand square feet plus an additional square footage of twenty
          percent of the acreage over one acre.




                                                                                                        Page 182
     3.   For all other uses, the maximum limits of disturbance shall be determined by the director on a
          case by case basis in harmony with the purposes of FCOZ stated in 19.72.010 to accomplish the
          purposes set forth in subsection B of this section.
E.   Modification of Limits of Disturbance.
     1.   The director has discretion to administratively increase the limits of disturbance by a maximum of
          twenty-five percent where applicable upon satisfaction of the criteria set forth below:
          a.   The modification is designed to yield:
               i.     More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas, rock
                      outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;
               ii.    Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or
               iii.   Better protection of wildlife habitat; or,
          b.   Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.




19.72.170 - FCOZ design standards.                                                                                  Commented [CW44]: The 2017 FCOZ made an attempt to
                                                                                                                    clarify the actual requirements and make them more
A.   Purpose. As stated in 19.72.010, the general purpose of design standards is to promote development             enforceable and to reduce the use of phrases like “to the
     that balances the rights of the landowner with protection of the foothill and canyon environment. These        maximum extent feasible”
     standards are intentionally broad to allow flexibility in design, compatibility with varying features of the
     natural landscape, and consistency with the following purposes:
     1.   Preserve and enhance the beauty of the landscape by encouraging the retention of natural
          topographic features, such as drainage swales, streams, slopes, ridge lines, rock outcroppings,
          vistas, natural plant formations, trees, and similar features.
     2.    Encourage planning and design of development and building sites that balances safety,
          recreational opportunity, economic development, and enjoyment of property rights, while adapting
          development to, and preserving natural terrain.
     3.    Establish a foundation for development in sensitive lands to insure a more harmonious
          relationship between man-made structures and the natural setting.
     4.   Direct new development in the canyons and foothills toward areas meeting suitability criteria, as
          outlined in the Wasatch Canyons general plan and other applicable general or community plans.
B.    Advisory or Mandatory Design Standards. The development and design standards set forth in this
     chapter fall into two categories: "advisory" standards and "mandatory" standards. Design standards
     that are advisory encourage voluntary adaptation. Development within the foothills and canyons
     overlay zone is to comply with all of the mandatory standards unless alternative design is approved by
     the planning commission upon a finding that the alternative design is in harmony with the purposes of
     FCOZ as stated in Section 19.72.010. The design standards and categories are summarized below in
     Table 19.72.1: FCOZ Design Standards.

                       SALT LAKECOPPERTON COUNTYMETRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH
                              TABLE 19.72.1: FCOZ DESIGN STANDARDS

                                             DESIGN STANDARDS

Mandatory Advisory            A. Select an appropriate site




                                                                                                       Page 183
                     A site must be suitable for the type of building or use being planned without
   X
                     major alterations to the site.

                     Buildings or uses shall comply with this chapter and all applicable state and
                     federal laws, recognizing the natural or man-made restraints on particular sites
   X                 such as slope, soil instability, landslides, avalanche, or flooding. (See, for
                     example, Section 19.72.120 (Natural Hazards) and Chapter 19.74 (Floodplain
                     Hazard Regulations).)

                       B. Site buildings in a manner that preserves existing land forms
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.9

                     Each building should be located so that it does not dominate the landscape. The
             X       best way to decrease visual impacts is to locate the project as far away from
                     prominent viewing locations as possible.

                     Visually prominent areas of the site shall be left in their natural condition with the
                     exception of areas necessary for access. Structures shall be screened using
   X
                     existing land forms and vegetation. (See Subsection 19.72.110 (Tree and
                     Vegetation Protection).)

                     Where practical, buildings should be placed in the following locations on a site:
                     1. Within tree masses to screen buildings
             X       2. At the edge of trees or land masses overlooking natural open space
                     3. In open areas where they are not visible from roads, trails, or other public
                     lands.

                     FIGURE 19.72.9: PRESERVE EXISTING LAND FORMS




                                                                                                  Page 184
                       C. Site buildings so they do not protrude into significant viewscapes.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.10

                     Buildings should be designed to fit their sites and to leave natural massing and
                     features of the landscape intact. Each building should be designed as an
             X
                     integral part of the site rather than an isolated object at odds with its
                     surroundings.

                     Where feasible, views should be maintained both to the site and to features
                     beyond, as seen from public rights-of-way, trails, and other public lands.
             X
                     Projects should not be located on prominent topographic features where they
                     dominate views or unnecessarily obscure the views of others.




FIGURE 19.72.10: PRESERVE SIGNIFICANT VIEWS

                       D. Site buildings so their form does not break prominent skylines
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.11

                     Buildings shall be sited at less visible places and designed so they are not
                     obtrusive, do not loom over the hillside, and do not break prominent skylines
   X                 from key vantage points. Skylines are ridges or hilltops on the horizon line that
                     do not have backdrops behind them as viewed from key vantage points. Heavily
                     traveled public roads located below skylines or hilltops are key vantage points.




                                                                                              Page 185
     FIGURE 19.72.11: RIDGELINE DEVELOPMENT

                       E. Site buildings to preserve significant trees and vegetation.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.12

                     Buildings shall be sited to keep removal of significant trees and vegetation to a
    X                minimum. (See section 19.72.160 (Limits of disturbance), 19.72.110 (Tree and
                     vegetation protection.)

                  FIGURE 19.72.12: PRESERVE SIGNIFICANT VEGETATION




                     F. Cluster buildings and parking, and coordinate neighboring
Mandatory Advisory developments.
                   See Figure 19.72.1

                     Clustering is encouraged to reduce land disturbance and the cost of providing
              X      services, road and parking area maintenance, snow removal, etc. (See Section
                     19.72.080 (Site Access).)




                                                                                               Page 186
                     Cooperative, coordinated development and the sharing of services,
             X       infrastructure, facilities, and parking among adjoining landowners is
                     encouraged.

                       G. Locate parking facilities to minimize their visual impact.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.13

                     When visible from publicly used roads, parking facilities shall be screened to
   X                 blend into the natural environment. Parking lot design that requires backing onto
                     a public street is prohibited. (See Section 19.72.080 (Site Access)

                     Parking facilities should be located to the rear or side of main buildings if
   X
                     possible when a site has a lot width of one hundred feet or more.

   X                 Parking facilities shall be designed consistent with the existing topography.

   X                 Parking facilities shall provide adequate snow storage areas.

                            FIGURE 19.72.13: PARKING LOCATION




Mandatory Advisory      H. Place utility lines underground

                     When possible, utilities shall be placed underground and within existing
   X                 roadways or in established shoulders to minimize the impact to existing natural
                     features, such as natural vegetative patterns and land forms.




                                                                                                 Page 187
                     Tree cutting for utility corridors shall be minimized to reduce visual impacts. All
   X                 disturbed areas shall be re-vegetated. (See Section 19.72.110 (Tree and
                     Vegetation Protection).)

                       I. Design buildings to solidly meet the ground plane.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.14

                     Building designs that require a strong structural statement, such as extensive
                     cantilevers or cuts and fills, are prohibited on sensitive hillsides with slopes
   X
                     greater than thirty percent, wetlands, streams, or hillsides with soil instability
                     consistent with this chapter.

                     Buildings shall firmly meet the ground. Placing buildings on piers such that
   X                 exterior walls do not continue down to the ground is prohibited, with the
                     exception of piers that support decks.

               FIGURE 19.72.14: STRUCTURES MEET THE GROUND PLANE




                       J. Design buildings on hillsides to follow the natural terrain.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.15

   X                 Buildings shall be located to minimize earth work and land disturbance.

                     Buildings shall be designed to follow natural contours rather than modifying the
   X                 land to accept a building design not tailored to the site. (See Section 19.72.070
                     (Grading))




                                                                                                 Page 188
       FIGURE 19.72.15

                       K. Design buildings to minimize mass and scale
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.16

                     Building designs shall incorporate changes in the planes of walls and changes
   X                 in the slope and height of roof lines to add variety, create visual interest, and
                     minimize scale.

                     The massing of buildings shall be scaled to harmonize and achieve balance with
   X
                     the natural features of the specific site.

                     Roof lines and building mass shall echo the angles and shapes repeated in the
   X
                     natural landscape.

                     Building mass and wall lines shall be broken up to complement natural canyon
   X
                     settings and slopes.




                                                                                               Page 189
                             FIGURE 19.72.16: MASS AND SCALE




Mandatory Advisory      L. Select appropriate building materials and colors

                     Predominant tones on exterior walls shall tend toward neutral colors, replicating
                     natural textures—for example, warm earthy hues; dark green of forests; whites,
   X                 greys, and grey-brown of the mountains; the tan of grasses; and similar colors.
                     Bright, harshly contrasting color combinations are prohibited. Paint finishes shall
                     have low levels of reflectivity.

                     The use of self-weathering metals is encouraged. Chemically treating wood so
             X
                     that it can be allowed to self-weather is also encouraged.

                       M. Use fire-resistant roof surfacing materials that blend with the
Mandatory Advisory
                     colors of the adjacent landscape.

                     The color of roof surfacing materials shall blend with the surrounding landscape
   X
                     such as brown, tan, dark green, grey, etc.

   X                 Flammable wood roofing shingles are prohibited in the canyons or foothills.

Mandatory Advisory      N. Preserve existing trees and vegetation

                     Significant trees and vegetation shall be preserved as provided in Section
   X
                     19.72.110.

                     When landscaping within the thirty-foot fire-break area, the use of fire-resistant
             X
                     plants is strongly encouraged.




                                                                                                Page 190
   X                 Dryland species of plants shall be selected for slope re-vegetation.

                       O. Landscape in order to retain the original character and harmony
Mandatory Advisory
                     among the various elements of a site.

                     Landscaping shall incorporate natural features such as trees, significant
   X
                     vegetative patterns, interesting land forms, rocks, water, views, and orientation.

                     Landscaped areas should be an integral part of the development project, and
             X       not simply located in left-over space on the site. New planting should blend in
                     with the existing landscape.

                     All disturbed areas shall be re-vegetated using native or adapted plant species
   X
                     and materials characteristic of the area.

             X       Use of fire-resistant plants is encouraged.

                       P. Limit site grading for buildings to preserve existing land forms.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.17

                     Building designs that require extensive cut and fills are prohibited. See Section
   X
                     19.72.070.

             X       Modification of the natural terrain should be minimized.

                     Slopes steeper than thirty percent shall not be disturbed except as allowed by
   X
                     this chapter.

                     Buildings, driveways, and roads shall follow the natural contours of the site as
   X                 feasible, and comply with countymetro township excavation, grading, and
                     erosion control standards.

                 FIGURE 19.72.17: BUILDINGS DESIGNED TO LIMIT GRADING




                                                                                               Page 191
Mandatory Advisory  Q. Preserve natural drainage patterns in site design.
Standard Standard See Figure 19.72.18

                     All final excavation, grading, and drainage plans shall conform to applicable
    X
                     countymetro township excavation, grading, and erosion control standards.

                     Development shall preserve the natural surface drainage pattern unique to each
    X                site. Grading plans shall ensure that drainage flows away from structures,
                     especially structures that are cut into hillsides.

                     Development must prevent negative or adverse drainage impacts on adjacent
    X
                     and surrounding sites.

                     Standard erosion control methods are required during construction to protect
                     water quality, control drainage, and reduce soil erosion. Sediment traps, small
    X
                     dams, or barriers of straw bales are generally required to slow the velocity of
                     runoff.

               FIGURE 19.72.18: PRESERVE NATURAL DRAINAGE PATTERNS




Mandatory Advisory     R. Locate buildings outside stream corridor buffer zones

                     Permanent structures shall be located a minimum of one hundred feet
                     horizontally (plan view) from the ordinary high-water mark of stream corridors or
    X                other bodies of water. At the discretion of the Director and based on site-specific
                     soils, water, or vegetation studies, setback distances may be reduced as
                     provided in Section 19.72.130 (Stream Corridor and Wetlands Protection).

    X                Where feasible, developments shall not alter natural waterways.




                                                                                               Page 192
                       S. Construct bridges for stream crossings.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.19

                     Culverts may only be installed on small side drainages, across swales, and on
                     ephemeral or intermittent streams. (See Section 19.72.130, (Stream Corridor
    X
                     and Wetlands Protection)). Culverts are prohibited to cross perennial streams;
                     bridges to cross perennial streams are permitted.

                     Bridges and culverts shall be sized to withstand one hundred year storm events.
    X                Concrete or stone head walls and side walls are required to maintain the
                     integrity of the bridge structure. (See Chapter 19.74 (Floodplain Hazards).




         FIGURE 19.72.19: CULVERTS

                     T. Design traffic circulation to respect existing topography, achieve
Mandatory Advisory acceptable slopes, and adhere to minimum width and turning standards.
                   See Figure 19.72.20

                     Vehicular access shall be safe and have adequate width to allow for
    X
                     snowplowing and snow storage.

                     Access roads shall avoid steep grades and sharp turning radii that can make
    X
                     access, especially in the winter, difficult.




                                                                                            Page 193
        FIGURE 19.72.20: DRIVEWAY DESIGN

Mandatory Advisory     U. Provide safe, adequate off-street parking with year-round access                Formatted: Left


    X
                     New development shall comply with off-street parking requirements provided in        Formatted: Left
                     this chapter.


               X
                     Shared driveways and shared parking areas with adjoining owners are                  Formatted: Left
                     encouraged.


    X
                     Off-street parking areas shall be large enough to avoid vehicles having to back      Formatted: Left
                     out onto a public street.

Mandatory Advisory     V. Design new roads and driveways to reduce their visual impact                    Formatted: Left

                     Roads and driveways should be screened using existing land forms and                 Formatted: Left
                     vegetation. Long tangents, including on side roads intersecting with arterial
               X
                     roads or highways, should be avoided in favor of curvilinear alignments
                     reflecting topography.


    X
                     Cuts and fills shall be re-graded to reflect adjacent land forms and re-vegetated    Formatted: Left
                     with native plants. See Section 19.72.070.

                      W. Respect existing land forms, contours, and natural settings in the               Formatted: Left
Mandatory Advisory placement of fences.
                   See Figures 19.72.21 and 19.72.22


    X
                     Fences may be erected to screen service and outdoor areas or provide a safety        Formatted: Left
                     barrier. (See Section 19.72.070 (Grading Standards—Retaining Walls))




                                                                                               Page 194
        Fencing used to screen patios, other outdoor areas, and service areas may be        Formatted: Left
        composed of the following fencing materials:
           a. Natural or stained wood
        b. Brick
X       c. Rock
        d. Stone
        e. Pre-cast fences or walls textured and colored to imitate any of the above
        materials
        f. Wrought iron

        The following fencing materials are prohibited:
        a. Solid board
        b. Concrete or concrete block
        c. Chain link, except around telecommunications facilities, public utility
        compounds, and other related or similar facilities where security concerns and
        terrain make this type of fencing practical, as approved by the Planning
X
        Commission for fences around conditional uses and approved by the Zoning
        Administrator for fences around permitted uses. Where a chain link fence is
        used, a powder or dull coating of the fence is required.
        d. Plywood
        e. Painted materials
        f. Vinyl, except rail fences for containment of horses

        Rail fences and low rock walls are permitted along arterial roads and highways,
X
        and at other locations to delineate property lines.

        Fences located along property lines and arterial roads or highways are limited to
X       a maximum height of forty-two inches, except where necessary for security,
        safety, protection of public health, wildlife, private property, livestock, etc.

        Solid barrier fences located along arterial roads or highways or placed directly
    X
        on a site's front property line are discouraged.

        Walls and fences are to be reviewed on a site-by-site basis, and require a
X
        building permit.




                                                                                 Page 195
                     FIGURE 19.72.21: OPAQUE FENCE FOR SCREENING




                FIGURE 19.72.22: FENCES RESPECT EXISTING LAND FORMS




                      X. Select and locate lighting fixtures only where needed to provide for
Mandatory Advisory the safe movement of people on the site.
                   See Figure 19.72.23

                     Light poles for public outdoor recreational facilities are limited to sixty feet in
                     height. Light poles for outdoor recreational facilities on private residential
    X                property are limited to eighteen feet in height. Both require site plan review
                     which may require restrictions on locations and hours of illumination based upon
                     impacts on adjoining properties.

                     With the exception of light poles for outdoor recreational facilities, lights poles,
    X                and building-mounted fixtures shall be designed with fully shielded luminaires
                     directed downward.




                                                                                                  Page 196
                                FIGURE 19.72.23: SHIELDED LIGHTING




19.72.180 - Exceptions for minor ski resort improvements.

     Minor ski resort improvements are permitted the following exceptions, subject to approval of the site
plan application for FCOZ:
    A.   Development on slopes greater than thirty percent.
    B.   Development on designated ridge lines or ridgeline protection area.
    C.    No Limitations on terracing.
    D.   Permissions for streets, roads, private access roads, and other vehicular routes to cross slopes
         over fifty percent, including limitations on driveway length.
    E.   Removal of trees and vegetation, therefore no requirements for tree replacement.




                                                                                                Page 197
19.72.190 - Waivers for mountain resort improvements that are not within a mountain resort zone, public
uses and mineral extraction and processing.                                                                        Commented [CW45]: Waivers for certain types of land
                                                                                                                   uses was built into FCOZ, because based on their very
A.    Authority to Grant Waivers. The topographic conditions, soil characteristics, hydrologic patterns,           nature, those uses are highly likely to require waivers from
     climatic constraints, susceptibility to natural hazards, vegetation, wildlife habitat concerns, and           slope requirements.
     aesthetic considerations of foothill and canyon areas often create circumstances in which strict
     compliance with adopted standards is not only difficult but sometimes impossible to achieve. As these
     challenges are frequently created by the very nature and operational characteristics of mountain
     resorts, mineral extraction and processing operations, and many public uses, and are therefore most
     often self-imposed, other avenues of administrative relief are sometimes necessary and appropriate.
     Accordingly, the land use authority may waive or modify the development standards for these uses.
B.   Waiver Request Procedures.
     1.   A petition or request for a waiver or modification of an FCOZ development standard may be
          submitted in writing by the owner or authorized agent of the subject property. A mountain resort
          may only submit such a petition or request on property that is not within a mountain resort zone,
          which it owned prior to the effective date of the 2017 modifications to FCOZ. The petition or
          request shall be made concurrent with the related land use permit application—for example,
          conditional use application. The petition or written request shall clearly explain:
          a.   Those aspects or elements of the development proposal that are strictly prohibited.
          b.   All FCOZ regulations requested to be waived or modified in order for the development to
               reasonably proceed.
          c.   The basis, justification or grounds for granting the waiver or modification.
          d.   Why other common designs or improvements that may be less impactful on the environment
               and adjacent properties are not being considered.
     2.   Each proposed waiver or modification is to be referred for decision to the relevant land use
          authority under the ordinance. The waiver or modification petition is to be accompanied by a
          written staff report with recommendations.
     3.   When a public hearing is required, the notice shall be given fourteen days in advance of the
          hearing and shall specify the waivers or modifications requested, the relevant ordinance
          provisions from which the waivers or modifications are sought, and the general nature of the
          development that is proposed if the requested waivers or modifications are granted.
C.    Approval Standards. In deciding whether to grant waivers or modifications to the development
     standards of the foothills and canyons overlay zone, the land use authority shall consider the following
     standards as deemed applicable by the land use authority:
     1.   The proposed waiver and improvements contribute to the overall use, operation, and maintenance
          of the property, and whether reasonable alternative means exist to reduce or mitigate adverse
          impacts.
     2.   Strict compliance with these regulations may result in substantial economic hardship or practical
          difficulties for the owner of the property.
     3.   Strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the specified regulation may result in a
          development approach inconsistent with the intent and objectives of this chapter.
     4.   The waivers or modifications may result in a development proposal that better preserves area
          views, reduces adverse impacts on existing trees and vegetation, reduces the overall degree of
          disturbance to steep slopes, protects wildlife habitat, or reflects a greater degree of sensitivity to
          stream corridors, wetlands, rock outcrops, and other sensitive environmental features in the
          vicinity of the proposed improvements.
     5.   The granting of the waiver or modification may have neutral or beneficial impact to the public
          health, safety, or welfare, or to properties or improvements in the vicinity.



                                                                                                      Page 198
     6.   The proposed development, as modified by the request, is consistent with the goals, objectives,
          and policies of the adopted community general plan applicable
     7.   Creative architectural or environmental solutions may be applied to alternatively achieve the
          purposes of this chapter.
     8.    The development in all other respects conforms to the site design, development, and
          environmental standards set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone and in all other
          applicable ordinances and codes.
     9.   The waivers or modifications requested do not violate other applicable federal, state, and local
          laws.
D.   Waivers. Slope waivers are not required for facilities or uses with slopes of thirty percent or less. Slope
     waivers are required for eligible development activities associated with such land uses according to
     Table 19.16.2.

                         TABLE 19.16.2: PERMISSIBLE SLOPE RANGES FOR
                              ELIGIBLE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES

                                         Authority to Grant Waivers

           Slope Range                                   Eligible Development Activities

       Thirty percent or less                               • No slope waiver required

 Greater than thirty percent up to
                                            • All development activities associated with allowed uses
           forty percent

                                                                  • Pedestrian trails
                                                            • Non-motorized vehicle trails
 Greater than forty percent up to      • Motorized vehicle roads and trails for emergency or maintenance
           fifty percent                                               purposes
                                     • Ski runs, ski lifts and supporting appurtenances and other mountain
                                                              resort accessory activities

                                                                  • Pedestrian trails
                                                            • Non-motorized vehicle trails
     Greater than fifty percent
                                     • Ski runs, ski lifts and supporting appurtenances and other mountain
                                                              resort accessory activities




E.   Action on Waiver Requests.
     1.   The waiver or modification request may be approved as proposed, denied, or approved with
          conditions.
     2.   The decision on the request shall include the reasons for approval or denial.




                                                                                                      Page 199
     3.   In granting a waiver from or modification of development standards, conditions may be imposed
          to mitigate the impacts of the proposed development on adjacent properties and the area. These
          may include, for example, measures to:
          a.   protect scenic vistas, especially views from public rights-of-way and public lands,
          b.   protect natural settings in the vicinity of site improvements, and
          c.   enhance the relationship to and compatibility with other structures and open spaces in the
               vicinity of the proposed improvements.
     4.   All development shall comply with approved plans. Any proposed revisions or changes to plans
          requires a resubmittal and request for final action.




19.72.200 - Definitions.

     For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
     "Alteration." Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an existing structure, such
as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or interior partitions, or any change in the dimensions or
configurations of the roof or exterior walls.
     "Building site." A space of ground occupied or to be occupied by a building or group of buildings.
     "Caliper." A standard for trunk measurement of nursery stock, determined by measuring the diameter
of the trunk six inches above the ground for up to and including five-inch caliper size, and twelve inches
above the ground for larger trees.
     "Clustering." A development or subdivision design technique that concentrates buildings or lots on a
part of the site to allow the remaining land to be used for recreation, common open space, and/or
preservation of environmentally sensitive areas.
     "Driveway." A private area used for ingress and egress of vehicles, which allows access from a street
or road to a building, structure, or parking spaces.
     "Engineering geologist." A geologist who, through education, training and experience, is able to
conduct field investigations and interpret geologic conditions to assure that geologic factors affecting
engineered works are recognized, adequately interpreted, and presented for use in engineering practice
and for the protection of the public.
    "Expansion." An increase in the size of an existing structure or use, including physical size of the
property, building, parking, and other improvements.
    "Fence." A structure erected to provide privacy or security, which defines a private space or is used to
constrain domestic animals.
      "Geotechnical engineer." A professional engineer licensed in the state of Utah, whose education,
training, and experience is in the field of geotechnical engineering.
     "Grading." Any change of existing surface conditions by excavating, placing of any soils or rocks, or
stripping of vegetation.
    "Landscape architect." A person who is licensed to practice landscape architecture by the state of
Utah.
       "Limits of disturbance." The area(s) in which construction and development activity are to be contained,
including development and construction of the principal building, accessory structures, recreation areas,
utilities, services, driveways, septic tank drain fields and related system requirements, storm drainage, and
other similar services or improvements. The following need not be included in limits of disturbance:
     A.   Up to ten feet of paved or unpaved shoulders for driveways.



                                                                                                     Page 200
     B.   Areas consisting of natural ponds, streams, trees, and other vegetation where no grading work is
          done.
      "Lot of Record." A lot or parcel of land established in compliance with all laws applicable at the time of
its creation and recorded in the office of the county recorder either as part of a recorded subdivision or as
described on a deed, having frontage upon a street, a right-of-way approved by the Land use hearing
officer, or a right-of-way not less than twenty feet wide.
    "Minor ski resort improvements." Construction activities associated with the ongoing operation and
maintenance of previously approved facilities, ski runs, ski trails, ski lifts and related resort appurtenances,
equipment, recreational access corridors, pedestrian or non-motorized trails, non-snow related activities
and accessory uses, or vehicular maintenance roads constructed or used in connection with the
construction, operation, or maintenance of a resort.
     "Mountain resort or Ski resort."
     A.   Any publicly or privately developed recreational use permitted by relevant local, state, and federal
          authorities, for snow-related activities, accessory year-round or non-snow related activities, and
          associated facilities and improvements.
     B.   Such uses, activities, and facilities may be conducted on a commercial or membership basis,
          whether solely on privately-owned property or on privately-owned lots or parcels interspersed with
          public land under a special use permit from the U.S. Forest Service or other public agency,
          primarily for the use of persons who do not reside on the same lot or parcel as that on which the
          recreational use is located.
          1.   Snow related activities include but are not limited to: downhill skiing, cross-country skiing,
               snowboarding, snow shoeing, snowmobiling, or other snow related activities.
          2.   Accessory year-round and non-snow related activities include but are not limited to: alpine
               recreational activities; cultural events and festivals; and conference events.
          3.   Associated facilities and improvements include, but are not limited to: lodging; food, retail,
               and support services; recreational and fitness facilities; parking accommodations; and other
               uses of a similar nature specifically authorized in conjunction with the operation of a year-
               round resort.
     "Natural open space." Land in a predominantly open and undeveloped condition that is suitable for
any of the following: natural areas; wildlife and native plant habitat; important wetlands or watershed lands;
stream corridors; passive, low-impact activities; little or no land disturbance; or trails for non-motorized
activities.
     "Net developable acreage" is defined as land with all of the following:
     a.   An average slope less than thirty percent.
     b.   Soils of a suitable depth and type based on soil exploration and percolation tests in accordance
          with the regulations of the Utah Department of Environmental Quality in order to ensure against
          adverse impacts on surface and groundwater quality.
     c.   Minimum distance from any stream corridor as defined in this Chapter.
     d.   Free from any identified natural hazards such as flood, avalanche, landslide, high water table and
          similar features. (See Chapter 19.74 (Floodplain Hazard Regulations) and Section 19.72.120
          (Natural Hazards).
     "Open Space." Any area of a lot that is completely free and unobstructed from any man-made structure
or parking areas.
     "Ordinary high water mark."
     A.   The line on the bank to which the high water of a stream ordinarily rises annually in seasons, as
          indicated by changes in the characteristics of soil, vegetation, or other appropriate means, taking
          into consideration the characteristics of the surrounding areas.


                                                                                                      Page 201
     B.   Where the ordinary high water mark cannot be found, the top of the channel bank shall be
          substituted.
     C.   In braided channels, the ordinary high water mark shall be measured to include the entire stream
          feature.
     "Overlay zone." A zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying zones and that imposes
additional or alternative requirements to that required by the underlying zone.
     "Qualified professional." A professionally trained person with the requisite academic degree,
experience, and professional certification or license in the field(s) relating to the subject matter being studied
or analyzed.
     "Retaining wall." A wall designed and constructed to resist the lateral displacement and erosion of soils
or other materials.
      "Ridgeline protection area." An area consisting of a prominent ridgeline that is highly visible from public
right-of-ways or trails, and that includes the crest of any such designated prominent hill or slope, plus the
land located within one hundred feet horizontally (map distance) on either side of the crest.
    "Significant trees." Live trees of six-inch caliper or greater, groves of five or more smaller live trees, or
clumps of live oak or maple covering an area of fifty square feet to the drip line perimeter.
     "Site plan." An accurately scaled plan that illustrates the existing conditions on a land parcel and the
details of a proposed development, including but not limited to: topography; vegetation; drainage; flood
plains; wetlands; waterways; landscaping and open space; walkways; means of ingress and egress;
circulation; utility easements and services; structures and buildings; lighting; berms, buffers and screening
devices; development on adjacent property; and any other information that may be required to make an
informed decision.
     "Slope." The level of inclination from the horizontal, determined by dividing, in fifty foot intervals, the
average horizontal run of the slope into the average vertical rise of the same slope and converting the
resulting figure into a percentage value.
     "Stream, Ephemeral." Those channels, swales, gullies, or low areas that do not have flow year-round
or are not shown on United States Geological Services (U.S.G.S.) topographic maps as perennial streams.
These are generally channels that are tributary to perennial streams, other ephemeral streams, terminal
low areas, ponds, or lakes. They are typically dry except during periods of snowmelt runoff or intense
rainfall. (Contrast with "Stream, Perennial.")
      "Stream, Perennial." Those streams, excluding ephemeral streams, or ditches and canals constructed
for irrigation and drainage purposes, which flow year-round during years of normal rainfall, and that are
identified on the appropriate United States Geological Services (U.S.G.S.) topographic maps as perennial
streams. (Contrast with "Stream, Ephemeral.")
     "Stream corridor." The corridor defined by a perennial stream's ordinary high water mark.
     "Substantial economic hardship." A denial of all reasonable economic use of a property.
     "Trails." A type of natural open space that is a system of public recreational pathways located within
the unincorporated countymetro township for use by the public for walking, biking, and/or horseback riding
as designated.
    "Undevelopable" means strict application of this title prevents the minimum development necessary to
establish a permitted or conditional use in the underlying zone on the property.
    "Vegetation." Living plant material, including but not limited to trees, shrubs, flowers, grass, herbs, and
ground cover.
     "Waiver." Permission to depart from the requirements of an Ordinance with respect to the application
of a specific regulation.




                                                                                                        Page 202
Chapter 19.74 - FLOODPLAIN HAZARD REGULATIONS                                                                   Commented [CW46]: Largely dictated by FEMA
                                                                                                                regulations, but have not been updated for quite some time
                                                                                                                and may need to be reconsidered in the near future. For
                                                                                                                Copperton’s purposes, it may be best to just refer to County
19.74.010 - Findings.                                                                                           Code for Floodplain issues until such time as they can be
                                                                                                                revised.
A.   Flood hazard areas of Salt Lake Countymetro township are subject to periodic inundation which results
     in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
     services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief, and impairment of the tax
     base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and general welfare.
B.   The inundation is caused by the cumulative effect of channel obstructions which increase flood heights
     and velocities. Uses that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise protected from
     floodwater also contribute to flood loss.




19.74.020 - Purpose of provisions.

    It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and general welfare, and to
minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions by provisions designed to:
     A.   Protect human life and health;
     B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for flood-control projects;
     C.   Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally undertaken
          at the expense of the general public;
     D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;
     E.   Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric, telephone
          and sewer lines, and streets and bridges located in areas of special flood hazard;
     F.   Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of areas of
          special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood-blight areas;
     G.   Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area of special flood hazard; and
     H.   Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards assume responsibility for their
          actions.




19.74.030 - Methods of reducing flood losses.

     In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
     A.   Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property due to water
          or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases of erosion, flood heights or velocities;
     B.   Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be protected
          against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
     C.   Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and natural protective barriers,
          which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
     D.   Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood damage;
          and




                                                                                                   Page 203
     E.   Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will divert floodwaters or which
          may increase flood hazards in other areas.




19.74.040 - Areas of special flood hazard.

A.   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of unincorporated
     Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township. The areas of special flood hazard identified by the
     Federal Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and engineering report entitled "Flood
     Insurance Study, Salt Lake County, Utah, Unincorporated Areas," December 18, 1985, with
     accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood Boundary-Floodway Maps, and any revisions
     thereto, are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The Flood Insurance Study
     is on file at the Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Division, 2001 South State
     Street, Salt Lake City, Utah 84190-4090.
B.   The director of development services shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base flood
     elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other source, as criteria for requiring that
     new construction, substantial improvements, or other development in zone A meet the provisions of
     Sections 19.74.050, 19.74.150, 19.74.160, 19.74.170 and 19.74.180. Such other source base flood
     elevation data shall be more specifically provided by the developer as determined by a registered
     professional engineer for subdivision and other proposed developments which contain at least fifty lots
     or five acres (whichever is less).




19.74.050 - Floodways.

      Located within areas of special flood hazard established in Section 19.74.040 are areas designated
as "floodways." Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which
carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
     A.    Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, placement of
          manufactured homes, and other developments, are prohibited unless certification by a registered
          professional engineer is provided demonstrating that encroachments shall not result in any
          increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood discharge.
     B.   If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and substantial improvements and
          placement of manufactured homes shall comply with all applicable flood-hazard reduction
          provisions of Sections 19.74.100 through 19.74.180.




19.74.060 - Relationship of floodplain hazard regulations to zones.

     The floodplain hazard regulations of this chapter shall be supplemental to, and not in lieu of, the
applicable zoning provisions of the zone in which the land is located, and/or general provisions under Title
19 of this code, as amended. Property located within such areas of special flood hazard shall be developed
only in conformance with the provisions set forth herein. In cases of conflict between such zone
classifications and the floodplain hazard regulations, the most restrictive provisions shall govern. Permitted
and conditional uses permitted in the areas of special flood hazard shall be developed only in conformance
with the provisions set forth herein. All uses involving development, as defined in this chapter, shall further
meet the supplemental conditions and standards set forth in this chapter.




                                                                                                      Page 204
19.74.070 - Conditional use permits required when.

     A conditional use permit, if required by this title, shall be obtained prior to special flood hazard area
approval under Section 19.74.080. Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit, the planning commission
shall insure that requirements of this chapter are met.




19.74.080 - Construction or development—Special approval required.

A.   Approval by the development services division shall be obtained before construction or development
     begins within an area of special flood hazard established in Section 19.74.040. Application for such
     approval shall be made on forms furnished by the development services division, and may include,
     but not be limited to: Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
     elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage
     facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
B.   Specifically, the following information is required:
     1.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor, including basement, of all structures
          except those located in zone A where base flood elevation data was not available nor required
          by this chapter;
     2.   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has been floodproofed except those
          located in zone A where base flood elevation data was not available nor required by this chapter;
     3.   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing methods for
          any nonresidential structure meet the floodproofing criteria in Sections 19.74.150 through
          19.74.180; and
     4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result of
          proposed development.




19.74.090 - Construction or development—Duties of director of development services division.

     The director of development services division shall be responsible to:
     A.   Review Applications.
          1.   Review all applications to determine if the proposed development is located in the floodway.
               If located in the floodway, assure that the encroachment provisions of Section 19.74.050 are
               met,
          2.   Review all applications to determine that the requirements of this chapter have been
               satisfied,
          3.   Review all applications to determine that all necessary permits have been obtained from
               federal, state or local governmental agencies from which prior approval is required;
     B.   Maintain Information File.
          1.   Obtain and record the actual elevation provided by the developer (in relation to mean sea
               level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially improved structures
               except those located in zone A where base flood elevation data was not available nor
               required by this chapter,
          2.   For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures except those located in zone A
               where base flood elevation data was not available nor required by this chapter:



                                                                                                    Page 205
               a.   Verify and record the actual elevation provided by the developer (in relation to mean
                    sea level), and
               b.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in subsection B3 of Section 19.74.080,
          3.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter;
     C.   Verify Alteration of Watercourses. Verify that:
          1.   A permit has been obtained from the division of flood control and water quality for any
               alteration of a watercourse identified as a flood-control facility in Section 17.08.040 of this
               code,
          2.   A permit has been obtained from the State Engineer for alteration of a natural stream
               channel,
          3.   Maintenance is provided for within the altered or relocated portion of such watercourse so
               the flood-carrying capacity is not diminished,
          4.   Notification has been made to cities adjacent to the watercourse and to the State Division of
               Comprehensive Emergency Management, prior to any alteration or relocation of a
               watercourse, and evidence of such notification has been submitted to the Federal
               Emergency Management Agency.




19.74.100 - Protective standards generally.

    In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards, set out in Sections 19.74.110 through
19.74.140, are required.




19.74.110 - Anchoring.

A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or
     lateral movement of the structure.
B.   All manufactured homes shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood damage.
     For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist
     flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, over-
     the-top and frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to applicable anchoring
     requirements for resisting wind forces.




19.74.120 - Construction materials and methods.

A.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials and utility
     equipment resistant to flood damage. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air-conditioning
     equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to prevent water from
     entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
B.   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed using methods and practices
     that minimize flood damage. Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are subject to flooding
     shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for
     the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by a
     registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the following minimum criteria: A



                                                                                                     Page 206
     minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch for every square
     foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no
     higher than one foot above grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other
     coverings or devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.




19.74.130 - Utilities.

A.   All new and replacement water-supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration
     of floodwaters into the system;
B.   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate infiltration
     of floodwaters into the systems, and discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
C.    On-site waste-disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or contamination from
     them during the flooding.




19.74.140 - Subdivision proposals.

A.   All subdivision proposals shall minimize flood damage;
B.   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electrical and
     water systems, located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
C.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood damage.




19.74.150 - Specific protective standards.

     In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been provided as set forth in
Section 19.74.040, the following provisions set out in Sections 19.74.160 through 19.74.180 are required.




19.74.160 - Residential construction.

     New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor,
including basement, elevated to a minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation.




19.74.170 - Nonresidential construction.

     New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential
structure shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to a minimum of one foot above
the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, shall:
     A.   Be floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood level the structure is watertight, with
          walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
     B.   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and affects
          of buoyancy; and



                                                                                                   Page 207
     C.    Provide that where a nonresidential structure is intended to be made watertight below the base
          flood level:
          1.    A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural design,
                specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and methods
                of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice for meeting the
                applicable provisions of this section, and
          2.    A record of such certificates which includes the specific elevation (in relation to mean sea
                level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be provided to the director of
                development services as set forth in Section 19.74.090(B)(2).




19.74.180 - Manufactured homes.

     All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved shall be elevated on a permanent
foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is a minimum of one foot above the base
flood elevation and is securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system in accordance with
Section 19.74.110.




19.74.190 - Variances and appeal procedures.

     The land use hearing officer, as designated by the zoning ordinance of the countymetro township,
shall hear and decide all appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter, as
provided in Chapter 19.92 of this title, as amended. The following conditions shall apply, in addition to the
provisions of Chapter 19.92:
     A.   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be
          erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
          structures constructed below one foot above the base level, providing the land use hearing officer
          has considered all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, and standards specified in other
          sections of this chapter, providing the following items have been considered:
          1.    The danger that materials may be swept onto other land to the injury of others;
          2.    The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
          3.    The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage, and the effect of
                such damage on the individual owner;
          4.    The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the community;
          5.    The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
          6.    The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use, which are not subject to flooding
                or erosion damage;
          7.    The compatibility of the proposed use with the existing and anticipated development;
          8.    The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and floodplain management
                program for that area;
          9.    The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency vehicles;
          10.     The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment transport of the
                floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;




                                                                                                       Page 208
          11.    The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions, including
                maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and
                water systems, and streets and bridges.
     B.   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures listed
          on the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard
          to the procedures set forth in the remainder of this section.
     C.   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood levels during
          the base flood discharge would result.
     D.   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum necessary,
          considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
     E.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
          1.    A showing of good and sufficient cause;
          2.    A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional and undue
                hardship to the applicant; and
          3.    A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood heights,
                additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause
                fraud on or victimization of the public, as identified in subsection Al of this section, or conflict
                with existing local laws or ordinances.
     F.   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the structure will
          be permitted to be built with a lowest floor elevation below one foot above the base flood elevation
          and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with the increased flood risk resulting
          from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
     G.    The land use hearing officer shall maintain the record of all appeal actions and report any
          variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.




19.74.200 - Warning and liability disclaimer.

     The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory
purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on
rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted within such areas will be free
from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the countymetro
township, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for any flood
damages that result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.




19.74.210 - Definitions.

     As used in this chapter:
      "Lowest floor" means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An unfinished
or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or storage, in an area
other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor, provided that such enclosure is not
built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable nonelevation design requirements of this title.
     "Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built on a
permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the
required utilities. For floodplain management purposes, the term "manufactured home" also includes park


                                                                                                         Page 209
trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for greater than one hundred eighty
consecutive days. For insurance purposes the term "manufactured home" does not include park trailers,
travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
     "Manufactured home park or subdivision" means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land divided into
two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.



Chapter 19.75 - GEOLOGICAL HAZARDS ORDINANCE* (Formerly "Natural Hazard Areas")                                  Commented [CW47]: This section deals with faults,
                                                                                                                 avalanche, rockfall, liquefaction. Like the Floodplain
                                                                                                                 regulations, it is due for updating, and may be best for
                                                                                                                 Copperton to allow County Code to stand until such time as
19.75.010 - Purpose of provisions.                                                                               it can be revised. Salt Lake County no longer has a geologist
                                                                                                                 on staff, which has added to the delay in getting this code
     The purpose of the geologic hazards ordinance is to promote the health, safety and general welfare          updated.
of the citizens of the CountyMetro township, and minimize the potential adverse effects of geologic hazards
to public health, safety and property by encouraging wise land use in geologically hazardous areas.




19.75.020 - Definitions.

     As used in this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
    "Active fault" means a fault displaying evidence of greater than four inches of displacement along one
or more of its traces during Holocene time (about 10,000 years ago to the present).
     "Avalanche" means a large mass of snow, ice, and debris in swift motion down a slope; includes both
wet and dry snow avalanches.
     "Buildable area" means that portion of a site where an approved engineering geology and/or
geotechnical report, as required, has indicated is not impacted by geologic hazards, or concluded that the
identified hazards can be mitigated to a level where risk to human life and property are reduced to an
acceptable and reasonable level, and where structures may be safely sited. Buildable areas must be clearly
marked on the site plan and/or final approved plat, as appropriate.
   "Critical facilities" means essential facilities, and lifelines such as major utility, transportation, and
communication facilities and their connections to essential facilities.
    "Debris flow" means a slurry of rock, soil, organic material, and water transported in an extremely fast
and destructive flow that flows down channels and onto and across alluvial fans; includes a continuum of
sedimentation events and processes including debris, flows, debris floods, mudflows, clearwater floods,
and alluvial fan flooding.
    "Development" includes all critical and essential facilities, subdivisions, single- and multi-family
dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings, additions to existing buildings, storage facilities, pipelines
and utility conveyances, and other land uses.
     "Engineering geologist" means a geologist who, through education, training and experience, is able to
conduct field investigations and interpret geologic conditions to assure that geologic factors affecting
engineered works are recognized, adequately interpreted, and presented for use in engineering practice
and for the protection of the public.
    "Engineering geology" means the application of geological data, principles and interpretation so that
geological factors affecting planning, design, construction, and maintenance of engineered works are
properly recognized and adequately interpreted.




                                                                                                    Page 210
     "Essential facility" means buildings and other structures that are intended to remain operational in the
event of extreme environmental loading from snow or earthquakes, including all Category II and III
structures as classified in Table 1604.5 of the Building Code.
   "Fault" means a fracture in the earth's crust forming a boundary between rock or soil masses that have
moved relative to each other (see "Active fault").
   "Fault setback" means an area on either side of a fault within which construction of structures for
human occupancy or critical facilities is not permitted.
     "Fault scarp" means a steep slope or cliff formed by movement along a fault.
    "Fault trace" means the intersection of a fault plane with the ground surface, often present as a fault
scarp, or detected as a lineament on aerial photographs.
    "Fault zone" means a corridor of variable width along one or more fault traces, within which deformation
has occurred.
     "Geologic hazard" means a surface fault rupture, liquefaction, landslide, debris flow, rockfall,
avalanche, and/or other geologic processes that may present a risk to life and property.
     "Geologic hazard maps" refers to the following maps showing Geologic Hazards Special Study Areas
in unincorporated Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township:
     A.   "Surface Fault Rupture and Liquefaction Potential Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989
          and revised March 1995;
     B.   "Avalanche Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989;
     C.   "Landslide, Debris Flow, and Rockfall Special Study Area Map" dated April 9, 2002.
     "Geologic Hazard Special Study Area" means a potentially hazardous area as shown on the geological
hazards maps, or in other areas defined under "Applicability" (Section 19.75.030), within which hazard
investigations are generally required prior to development.
    "Geotechnical Engineer" means a professional engineer licensed in the State of Utah whose
education, training and experience, is in the field of geotechnical engineering.
     "Geotechnical Engineering" means the investigation and engineering evaluation of earth materials
including soil, rock and man-made materials and their interaction with earth retention systems, foundations,
and other civil engineering works. The practice involves the fields of soil mechanics, rock mechanics, and
earth sciences and requires knowledge of engineering laws, formulas, construction techniques, and
performance evaluation of engineering.
    "Governing body" means the CountyMetro township Council, or to a future successor body to the
CountyMetro township Council.
     "Landslide" means a general term for the downslope movement of a mass of soil, surficial deposits or
bedrock, including a continuum of processes between landslides, earthflows, mudflows, debris flows and
debris avalanches, and rockfall.
     "Liquefaction" means a process by which certain water-saturated soils lose bearing strength because
of earthquake-related ground shaking and subsequent increase of groundwater pore pressure.
     "Non-Buildable Area" means that portion of a site which an engineering geology report has concluded
may be impacted by geologic hazards that cannot be feasibly mitigated to a safe level, and where siting of
structures is not permitted.
    "Rockfall" means a rock, or mass of rock, newly detached from a cliff or other steep slope which moves
downslope by falling, rolling, toppling, or bouncing; includes rockslides, rockfall avalanches, and talus.
    "Setback" means an area within which construction of habitable structures or critical facilities is not
permitted.




                                                                                                   Page 211
     "Slope Stability" means the resistance of a natural or artificial slope or other inclined surface to failure
by landsliding; usually assessed under both static and dynamic (earthquake induced) conditions.
     "Structure designed for human occupancy" means any residential dwelling or other structure used or
intended for supporting or sheltering any human occupancy.




19.75.030 - Applicability.

     These regulations are applicable to:
     A.    All lands within Geological Hazard Special Study Areas in unincorporated Salt Lake
          CountyCopperton Metro Township, as shown on the following geologic hazards maps on file with
          the County Planning and Development Services Division:
          1.   "Surface Fault Rupture and Liquefaction Potential Special Study Areas" dated March 31,
               1989 and revised March 1995;
          2.   "Avalanche Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989; and
          3.   "Landslide, Debris Flow, and Rockfall Special Study Areas" dated April 9, 2002.
     B.   Because not all geologic hazards are identified on the above maps due to their scale, this
          ordinance also applies to areas within the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone, as indicated by
          a map of that title adopted on January 21, 1998, Chapter 19.72 of the Salt LakeCopperton
          CountyMetro township Zoning Ordinance, as amended; and
     C.   Areas where slopes are in excess of thirty percent; and
     D.   Areas where topography, geology, soil conditions, slope instability, slope angle or aspect,
          whether on-site or off-site, indicate a potential for geologic hazards.
      Such maps and areas described above and all amendments thereto are made a part of this chapter
as if fully described and detailed herein. Each change in the geologic hazards maps shall be subject to the
amendment procedures set forth in Chapter 19.90.




19.75.040 - Disputes.

     Disputes may arise when:
     a.   there is a conflict between the boundary lines illustrated on the map and actual field conditions,
     b.   detailed investigations show that mapped hazards are not present within a particular area, or
     c.   field conditions indicate that unmapped hazards may exist that require study.
     Disputes shall be settled as follows:
     A.   The person disputing the special study area boundary or the presence of mapped or unmapped
          hazard(s) within a particular area shall submit technical and geologic evidence to support their
          claim to the CountyMetro township Geologist in the form of a site-specific geologic hazards report
          (see Section 19.75.060).
     B.    The CountyMetro township Geologist may request the Utah Geological Survey, U.S. Forest
          Service, and/or other experts to review the evidence (third-party review) prior to making a decision
          concerning the dispute. The cost of the third-party review shall be paid by the person disputing
          the map.




                                                                                                       Page 212
    C.    The CountyMetro township Geologist may allow deviations from the mapped boundary line only
         if evidence is provided by the applicant that, to the satisfaction of the CountyMetro township
         Geologist, clearly and conclusively establishes that the Geologic Hazard Special Study Area
         boundary location is incorrect, or that the mapped hazards are not present within a particular
         area.
    D.   Any decision of the CountyMetro township Geologist may be appealed to the land use hearing
         officer pursuant to the appeal procedures set forth in Section 19.92.050.




19.75.050 - Studies and reports required.

     Any applicant requesting development on a parcel of land within a Geologic Hazard Special Study
Area, as required under Chart 19.75.050, or in other applicable areas as defined in Section 19.75.030, shall
submit to the Planning and Development Services Division two copies of a site-specific geologic hazard
study and report.




                                              Chart 19.75.050
                                  Special Study Area Report Requirements
                                   Based on Special Study Area Maps
              Is a Site-Specific Geologic Hazards Report Required Prior to Approval?

                                                    Liquefaction Potential

                                       Surface                     LOW and      Landslide,
                                                    HIGH and
    Land Use (Type of Facility)         Fault                       VERY       Debris Flow &    Avalanche
                                                   MODERATE
                                       Rupture                       LOW         Rockfall

Critical and Essential Facilities as
                                        Yes            Yes            Yes           Yes            Yes
  defined in Section 19.75.020

 Industrial and Commercial Bldgs.
                                        Yes            No*            No            Yes            Yes
    (1 story and <5,000 sq. ft.)

 Industrial and Commercial Bldgs.
                                        Yes            Yes            No            Yes            Yes
           (>5,000 sq. ft.)

  Residential-Single Lots/Single
                                        Yes            No*            No            Yes            Yes
         Family Homes

  Residential Subdivisions (>9
  Lots), and Residential Multi-
                                        Yes            Yes            No            Yes            Yes
Family Dwellings (4 or more units
            per acre)




                                                                                                  Page 213
   Residential Subdivisions (<9
   Lots), and Residential Multi-
                                         Yes             No*            No             Yes            Yes
  Family Dwellings (<4 units per
               acre)

  * Although a site-specific investigation is not required, the owner is required to file a disclosure notice
                                         prior to land-use approval




19.75.060 - Geologic hazard and engineering geology reports.

     This section describes requirements for site-specific geologic hazard studies and reports, where
required according to Section 19.75.050, the Geologic Hazard maps and Chart 19.75.050:
    A.    An engineering geology report that includes a geologic hazards investigation and assessment
          shall be prepared by a qualified engineering geologist, except as provided in Sections 19.75.060
          (C) and (F), below. A "qualified engineering geologist" requires 1) an undergraduate or graduate
          degree in geology, engineering geology, or a related field with a strong emphasis in geologic
          coursework, from an accredited university; 2) at least three full years of experience in a
          responsible position in the field of engineering geology; and 3) per State law, after January 1,
          2003, geologists practicing before the public must be licensed in Utah. The report shall be site-
          specific and shall identify all known or suspected potential geologic hazards, originating on-site
          or off-site, whether previously mapped or unmapped, that may affect the particular property. All
          reports shall be signed and stamped by the preparer and include the qualifications of the preparer.
    B.     Fault rupture hazard reports shall contain all requirements as described in the document
          "Minimum Standards for Surface Fault Rupture Studies" published by Salt Lake County, and
          incorporated by reference as Appendix A of this ordinance. Fault study reports shall be prepared,
          signed, and stamped by a qualified engineering geologist as described in Appendix A.
    C.    Liquefaction analyses shall contain all requirements as stated in the document "Liquefaction: A
          Guide to Land Use Planning" published by Salt Lake County, and incorporated by reference as
          Appendix B to this ordinance. Liquefaction analyses shall be prepared by a qualified professional
          geotechnical engineer licensed in the State of Utah, and shall include the professional engineer's
          original stamp and signature.
    D.     Debris flow hazard studies and reports shall include test pits or trench logs (scaled 1 inch to 5
          feet), include estimates of the number and frequency of past events and their thicknesses, volume
          and maximum clast sizes; and include estimates of the recurrence, depth, and impact forces
          anticipated in future events. While debris flow hazard analyses may require contributions from
          hydrologists and engineers, the debris flow report shall be under the control of, and prepared by,
          a qualified engineering geologist, and shall include the geologist's qualifications to perform the
          study (such as their experience in performing similar studies).
    E.    Landslide reports shall be prepared in accordance with the Utah Geological Survey's "Guidelines
          for Evaluating Landslide Hazards in Utah" (Hylland, 1996). Landslide reports shall be prepared,
          signed, and stamped by a qualified engineering geologist, and include the qualifications of the
          preparer. Slope stability or other analyses included in these reports shall include both static and
          dynamic conditions, and shall be prepared by a qualified professional geotechnical engineer
          licensed in the State of Utah, and shall include the professional engineer's original stamp and
          signature.
    F.    Snow avalanche hazard reports shall be prepared in accordance with the document "Snow-
          Avalanche Hazard Analysis for Land Use Planning and Engineering" (Colorado Geological



                                                                                                     Page 214
          Survey Bulletin 49) or other appropriate references. Avalanche hazard reports must be prepared
          by an experienced avalanche expert, and shall include the avalanche expert's qualifications to
          perform the study (such as their experience in performing similar studies).
     G.   Other geologic hazard or engineering geology reports shall be prepared in accordance with Utah
          Geological Survey Miscellaneous Publication M, "Guidelines for Preparing Engineering Geologic
          Reports in Utah." All reports shall be signed by the preparer and include the qualifications of the
          preparer. Generally, these reports must be prepared, signed, and stamped by a qualified
          engineering geologist licensed in the State of Utah. However, reports co-prepared by a
          professional engineer must include the professional engineer's original stamp and signature.
     H.   All reports shall include, at a minimum:
          1.    A 1:24,000-scale geologic map (with reference) showing the surface geology, bedrock
               geology (where exposed), bedding attitudes, faults or other structural features, and the
               locations of any geologic hazards;
          2.   A detailed site map of the subject area showing any site-specific mapping performed as part
               of the geologic investigation, and including boundaries and features related to any geologic
               hazards, topography, and drainage. The site map must show the location and boundaries of
               the hazard(s), delineation of any recommended setback distances from hazard(s), and
               recommended location(s) for structures. Buildable and non-buildable areas shall be clearly
               identified. Scale shall be one inch equals two hundred feet or smaller.
          3.   Trench logs and test pit logs (scale: 1 inch equals 5 feet, or smaller), boring logs (scale: 1
               inch equals 5 feet, or smaller), aerial photographs, references with citations, and other
               supporting information, as applicable
          4.   Conclusions that summarize the characteristics of the geologic hazards, and that address
               the potential effects of the geologic conditions and geologic hazards on the proposed
               development and occupants thereof in terms of risk and potential damage.
          5.   Specific recommendations for additional or more detailed studies, as may be required to
               understand or quantify the hazard, evaluate whether mitigation measures are required, and
               evaluate mitigation options.
          6.    Specific recommendations for avoidance or mitigation of the effects of the hazard(s),
               consistent with the purposes set forth in Section 19.75.010. Design or performance criteria
               for engineered mitigation measures and all supporting calculations, analyses, modeling or
               other methods, and assumptions, shall be included in the report. Final design plans and
               specifications for engineered mitigation must be signed and stamped by a qualified
               professional geotechnical or structural engineer, as appropriate.
          7.   Evidence on which recommendations and conclusions are based shall be clearly stated in
               the report.
     I.   Additional or more detailed studies may be required, as recommended by the report or as
          determined by the CountyMetro township Geologist, to understand or quantify the hazard, or to
          evaluate whether mitigation measures recommended in the report are adequate.




19.75.070 - Review of reports—Approval procedure.

A.   In order to fulfill the purposes of this chapter, the Planning and Development Services Division or the
     Planning Commission, as appropriate under the CountyMetro township's Development Standards,
     shall review any proposed land use which requires preparation of a geologic hazard report under this
     chapter to determine the possible risks to the safety of persons or property from geologic hazards.




                                                                                                   Page 215
B.   Prior to consideration of any such development by the Planning and Development Services Division
     and the Planning Commission, the geologic hazard report shall be submitted to the CountyMetro
     township Geologist for review and recommendation. The CountyMetro township Geologist may
     request the Utah Geological Survey, the U.S. Forest Service, and/or other experts to review the report
     (third-party review) and provide additional recommendations. Any cost the countymetro township must
     pay for such third-party reviews shall be paid by the applicant prior to Planning Commission or Planning
     and Development Services Division action. The CountyMetro township Geologist shall file a copy of
     the geologic hazard report in the CountyMetro township Geologist's Geologic Hazards Library, and
     another copy in the Planning and Development Services project file. A copy may also be forwarded to
     the Utah Geological Survey.
C.   The CountyMetro township Geologist and other retained experts in their review of the report, and the
     Planning Commission or Planning and Development Services Director in their consideration of the
     development, shall determine whether the development complies with all of the following standards:
     1.   A suitable geologic hazard report has been prepared by a qualified professional as defined in
          Section 19.75.060.
     2.   The proposed land use does not present an unreasonable risk to the safety of persons or property
          (including buildings, storm drains, public streets, utilities or critical facilities, whether off-site or on-
          site), or to the aesthetics and natural functions of the landscape (e.g. slopes, streams or other
          waterways, drainage, wildlife habitat, etc., whether off-site or on-site) because of the presence of
          geologic hazards or because of modifications to the site due to the proposed land use;
     3.   At the Planning Commission's discretion, with advice from the CountyMetro township Geologist,
          the proposed land use may be approved if the applicant submits substantial evidence in the
          geologic hazard report that, using best available practices, the identified hazards can be mitigated
          to a level where the risk of human life and damage to property are reduced to an acceptable and
          reasonable level in a manner which has a minimum effect on the natural environment. Mitigation
          measures should consider, in their design, the intended aesthetic functions of other governing
          ordinances such as the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (Ch. 19.72).
D.     Any area determined to contain geologic hazards to life or property shall not be approved for
     development unless the applicant demonstrates that the identified hazards or limitations can be
     overcome in such a manner as to minimize hazard to life or property. The applicant must include, with
     the geologic hazards report, an acceptable mitigation plan that defines how the identified hazards or
     limitations will be overcome in such a manner as to minimize hazard to life or property, as described
     in Section 19.75.070C(1), above, and without impacting or affecting off-site areas.
E.   The CountyMetro township Geologist may set other requirements as are necessary to overcome any
     geologic hazards and to ensure that the purposes of this chapter are met. These requirements may
     include, but are not limited to:
     1.   Additional or more detailed studies to understand or quantify the hazard or determine whether
          mitigation measures recommended in the report are adequate;
     2.     Specific mitigation requirements; establishment of buildable and/or non-buildable areas;
          limitations on slope grading; and/or revegetation;
     3.   Installation of monitoring equipment and seasonal monitoring of surface and subsurface geologic
          conditions, including groundwater levels;
     4.   Other requirements such as time schedules for completion of the mitigation, phasing of
          development, etc.
F.   The Planning Commission or Planning and Development Services Director may set requirements
     necessary to reduce the risks from geologic hazards as a condition to the approval of any development
     which requires a geologic hazards report.




                                                                                                            Page 216
19.75.081 - Active fault considerations.

A.    No critical facility (excluding transportation lines or utilities, which by their nature may cross active
     faults) or structures designed for human occupancy shall be built astride an active fault. A fault study
     must be prepared as defined in Sections 19.75.030 and 19.75.060, and Appendix A, prior to final
     approval of the land use or building permits. If a fault is discovered in the excavation for such a
     structure, whether located within a Special Study Area or not, a special study, as described in Section
     19.75.060 must be performed to determine if the fault is active. If the fault is determined to be active,
     the procedures set forth in Section 19.75.070 shall be followed. The fault study report shall establish
     a fault setback on either side of the fault following the requirements in Appendix A, within which no
     critical facilities or structures for human occupancy shall be placed.
B.   No structure designed for human occupancy shall be built on a fault scarp. Footing setbacks from a
     fault scarp shall meet the requirements in Appendix A or the requirements of the Building Code,
     whichever is more stringent. The Planning and Development Services Director may increase footing
     setback requirements where information from a geotechnical report indicates slope conditions warrant
     a greater setback distance.




19.75.082 - Liquefaction considerations.

A.   Liquefaction analyses shall be performed for all critical facilities regardless of the mapped special
     study area designation for the site.
B.   For all structures for which a liquefaction analysis indicates that ground settlement may be anticipated,
     the project structural engineer shall provide documentation to the CountyMetro township Geologist
     that the building will be designed to accommodate the predicted ground settlements, in such a manner
     as to be protective of life safety during the design event.




19.75.083 - Avalanche considerations.

A.   Development of structures for human occupancy is not permitted within an avalanche special study
     area, or in other areas where avalanche hazards may exist, unless a detailed avalanche hazard
     analysis is performed, as described in Section 19.75.060, by a qualified avalanche expert.
B.   If the avalanche analysis indicates that the site may be impacted by avalanches, the report shall
     delineate the following areas:
     1.   A "red zone" of high avalanche potential [return period of twenty-five years or less, and/or impact
          pressures over six hundred pounds per square foot (psf)] within which critical facilities or
          structures for human occupancy are not permitted;
     2.   A "blue zone" (return period between twenty-five and three hundred years, and impact pressures
          less than six hundred psf) within which critical facilities or structures for human occupancy shall
          only be permitted when at least one of the following requirements has been met:
          a.    The structure is designed to incorporate direct protection measures that address the
               estimated impact forces (flowing snow/debris and powder blast loading). The estimated
               impact forces shall be calculated by the avalanche expert. The structure shall be designed
               by, and the plans stamped by, a qualified structural engineer licensed in the State of Utah;
               or
          b.   Appropriate engineering controls (i.e. deflection structures, snow retention nets, dams, etc.)
               are designed and installed to mitigate the avalanche hazard. Design or performance criteria
               for engineered mitigation measures (including estimated impact forces, flow heights, location


                                                                                                     Page 217
               and dimensions of the mitigation structures) and all supporting modeling or other analyses,
               calculations, and assumptions, shall be calculated by the avalanche expert and included in
               the report. Final design plans and specifications for engineered mitigation must be signed
               and stamped by a qualified professional geotechnical or structural engineer, as appropriate,
               licensed in the State of Utah.




19.75.091 - Disclosure when a geologic hazards report is required.

     Whenever a geologic hazards report is required under this chapter, the owner of the parcel shall record
a restrictive covenant running with the land in a form satisfactory to the CountyMetro township prior to the
approval of any development or subdivision of such parcel. Disclosure will include signing a Disclosure and
Acknowledgment Form provided by the CountyMetro township, which will include the following:
     A.   Notice that the parcel is located within a Geologic Hazard Special Study Area as shown on the
          geologic hazard map or otherwise defined in Section 19.75.030;
     B.   Notice that a geologic hazards report was prepared and is available for public inspection in the
          CountyMetro township Geologist's Geologic Hazards Library;
     C.    Where geologic hazards and related setbacks are delineated in subdivisions and PUDs, the
          owner shall also place additional notification on the plat stating the above information, prior to
          final approval of the plat.




19.75.092 - Disclosure when a geologic hazards report is not required.

     Whenever a parcel to be developed is located within a Geologic Hazard Special Study Area but a
geologic hazards report is not required under this chapter (such as but not limited to, a single-family home
located in a moderate liquefaction potential area), notice that the parcel is located within such area(s) shall
be recorded by the land owner by signing a Disclosure and Acknowledgment Form provided by the
CountyMetro township, prior to the approval of any such development.




19.75.100 - Warning and disclaimer.

     The geologic hazards ordinance codified in this chapter and geologic hazard maps represent only
those hazardous areas known to the CountyMetro township, and should not be construed to include all
possible potential hazard areas. The geologic hazards ordinance and the geologic hazard maps may be
amended as new information becomes available pursuant to procedures set forth in Chapter 19.90. The
provisions of this chapter do not in any way assure or imply that areas outside its boundaries will be free
from the possible adverse effects of geologic hazards. This chapter shall not create liability on the part of
the CountyMetro township, any officer or employee thereof for any damages from geologic hazards that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative requirement or decision lawfully made thereunder.




19.75.110 - Change of use.

     No change in use which results in the conversion of a building or structure from one not used for
human occupancy to one that is so used shall be permitted unless the building or structure complies with
the provisions of this chapter.



                                                                                                     Page 218
19.75.120 - Conflicting regulations.

      In cases of conflict between the provisions of existing zoning classifications, building code, subdivision
ordinance, or any other ordinance of the countymetro township and the geologic hazards ordinance codified
in this chapter, the most restrictive provision shall apply.




Chapter 19.76 - SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS                                                           Commented [CW48]: This Chapter contains a list of
                                                                                                                   miscellaneous provisions that pertain to specific types of
                                                                                                                   developments, buildings, and/or land uses.

19.76.010 - Effect of chapter provisions.

    The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as the case may be, the
zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this title.




19.76.020 - Occupancy permit.

A.   Land, buildings and premises in any zone shall hereafter be used only for the purpose listed in this
     title as permitted in that zone, and in accordance with the regulations established in this title in that
     zone.
B.   The permit of occupancy shall be issued by the chief building inspector and the development services
     division director to the effect that the use and/or building or premises conforms to the provisions of this
     title and related ordinances prior to the occupancy of any building hereafter erected, enlarged or
     structurally altered, or where any vacant land is hereafter proposed to be occupied or used, except for
     permitted agricultural uses.
C.   Such a permit shall also be issued whenever the character or use of any building or land is proposed
     to be changed from one use to another use.
D.   Upon written request from the owner, such a permit shall also be issued covering any lawful use of a
     building or premises existing on the effective date of the amendment codified herein, including
     nonconforming buildings and uses.




19.76.030 - Uses not listed—Administrative determination.                                                          Commented [CW49]: Allows determinations to be made
                                                                                                                   for uses not specifically listed in the ordinance but which
    Determination as to the classification of uses not specifically listed in this title shall be made by the      have similar traits to uses that are listed.
planning and development services division director and shall be subject to appeal to the planning
commission. Such appeal shall be filed in writing within ten days after written notification to applicant of the
planning and development services division director's determination. The procedure shall be as follows:
     A.   Written Request. A written request for such a determination shall be filed with the planning and
          development services division director. The request shall include a detailed description of the
          proposed use and such other information as may be required.
     B.   Investigation. The planning and development services division director shall thereupon make
          such investigations as are deemed necessary to compare the nature and characteristics of the




                                                                                                      Page 219
          proposed use with those of uses specifically listed in this title, and to make a determination of its
          classification.
     C.   Determination. The determination of the planning and development services division director shall
          be rendered in writing within thirty days unless an extension is granted by the planning
          commission. The determination shall state the zone classification in which the proposed use will
          be permitted as well as the findings which established that such use is of the same character as
          uses permitted in that zone classification. Upon making this decision, the planning and
          development services division director shall forthwith notify the applicant, the planning
          commission and the development services division.
     D.   Effect. The determination and all information pertaining thereto shall become a permanent public
          record in the office of the planning and development services division director. Such use shall
          thereafter become a permitted or conditional use in the class of district specified in the
          determination, and shall have the same status as a permitted or conditional use specifically
          named in the regulations for the zone classification.




19.76.035 - Appeal of planning commission decision.

     Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this title, any person shall have the right to appeal to the
land use hearing officer a decision of the planning commission rendered under this title. Appeals shall follow
the procedure set forth in Section 19.92.050.




19.76.040 - Dwellings to be on lots.

     Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot, as defined in this title.




19.76.050 - Lots in separate ownership.                                                                              Commented [CW50]: Lots that pre-exist the ordinance
                                                                                                                     itself are commonly called “lots of record.”
      The requirements of this title as to minimum lot area or lot width shall not be construed to prevent the
use for a single-family dwelling of any lot or parcel of land, provided that such lot or parcel of land is located
in a zone which permits single-family dwellings, and is a legally divided lot held in separate ownership at
the time such requirements became effective for such lot or parcel of land.




19.76.060 - Separately owned lots—Reduced yards.                                                                     Commented [CW51]: Automatic yard reductions for lots
                                                                                                                     of record that are less than the current minimum lot width.
     On any lot under a separate ownership from adjacent lots and of record at the time of passage of the
ordinance codified herein, and such lot having a smaller width than required for the zone in which it is
located, the width of each of the side yards for a dwelling may be reduced to a width which is not less than
the same percentage of the width of the lot as the required side yard would be of the required lot width;
provided that, on interior lots, the smaller of the two yards shall be in no case less than five feet, or the
larger less than eight feet; and for corner lots, the side yard on the side street shall be in no case less than
ten feet or the other side yard be less than five feet.




                                                                                                        Page 220
19.76.065 - Public use—Reduced lot area and yards.                                                              Commented [CW52]: Gives the planning commission
                                                                                                                authority to reduce lot size and yard requirements for public
     The requirements of this title as to minimum lot area and minimum yards may be reduced by the              uses (govt. buildings and utilities).
planning commission for a public use. The planning commission shall not authorize a reduction in the lot
area or yard requirements unless the evidence presented is such as to establish that the reduction will not,
under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of
persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity.




19.76.080 - Lots and buildings on private rights-of-way.                                                        Commented [CW53]: Probably needs to be reworded.
                                                                                                                Very confusing provision.
       Except where the requirements of this section are reduced by permit of the land use hearing officer,
the minimum area for any lot fronting on a private right-of-way, at least twenty feet wide, shall be one-half
acre, and the minimum distance from the center of the right-of-way to the front line of the building shall be
fifty feet; except that property that cannot be subdivided as outlined in the subdivision ordinance may be
developed on a private street or right-of-way in any R zone upon approval of the development services
division director. Such approval shall be governed by the official policies regulating such development, as
adopted by the planning commission and on file at the planning commission office.




19.76.090 - Sale of lots below minimum width and area.

       No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area requirements for the zone in which
it is located may be cut off from a large parcel of land for the purpose, whether immediate or future, of
building or development as a lot, except by permit of the land use hearing officer.




19.76.100 - Sale of space needed to meet requirements.

      No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other requirements of this title
for a lot or building may be sold or leased away from such lot or building.




19.76.110 - Yard space for one building only.

      No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is hereafter provided
around any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this title shall be considered as
providing a yard or open space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other required open space on
an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot whereon a building is to be erected
or established. This section shall be so construed to mean only one main building may be permitted on one
lot, unless otherwise provided in this title.




19.76.130 - Accessory buildings—Area of coverage.

    No accessory building or group of accessory buildings in any residential zone shall cover more than
twenty-five percent of the rear yard.




                                                                                                   Page 221
19.76.140 - Private garage or carport—Reduced yards.                                                              Commented [CW54]: This provision has for the most part
                                                                                                                  been incorporated into the residential zones, but not the
     On a lot where a private garage or carport, containing at least one parking space of the two required        agricultural zones.
parking spaces per dwelling unit for a single-family dwelling or duplex, has the minimum side yard required
for such dwelling, the width of the other side yard may be reduced to the minimum required side yard. Side
yards adjacent to a street on a corner lot may not be reduced. On any lot where such garage or carport has
such side yard, the rear yard of the single-family dwelling or duplex may be reduced to fifteen feet, provided
the garage or carport also has a rear yard of at least fifteen feet.




19.76.160 - Intersecting streets and clear visibility.                                                            Commented [CW55]: There is an illustration of the clear
                                                                                                                  view area in Chapter 19.94, but perhaps it should be moved
     In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in excess of two feet in height shall be     here (or at least a reference to the illustration here).
placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street property lines and a line connecting
them at points forty feet from the intersection of the street lines, except a reasonable number of trees pruned
high enough to permit unobstructed vision to automobile drivers, and pumps at gasoline service stations.




19.76.170 - Height limitations—Buildings less than one story.

     No building shall be erected to a height less than one story above grade.




19.76.190 - Height limitations—Exceptions.

     Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar
equipment required to operate and maintain the building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers,
steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, water tanks, wireless or television masts, theater lofts, silos
or similar structures, may be erected above the height limits prescribed in this title, but no space above the
height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing additional floor space, and no heights are permitted
above the maximum allowed under airport height provisions.




19.76.200 - Additional height allowed when.

    Public or semipublic utility buildings, when authorized in a zone, may be erected to a height not
exceeding seventy-five feet if the building is set back from each otherwise established building line at least
one foot for each additional foot of building height above the normal height limit required for the zone in
which the building is erected.




19.76.210 - Off-site improvements.                                                                                Commented [CW56]: Requires street improvements for
                                                                                                                  new developments.
A.   Off-Site Improvements Required. The applicant for a building or conditional use permit for all dwellings,
     commercial or industrial uses, and all other business and public and quasi-public uses shall provide
     curb, gutter and sidewalk along the entire property line which abuts any public road or street in cases


                                                                                                     Page 222
     where it does not exist at countymetro township standards. Vehicular entrances to the property shall
     be provided as required in Section 14.12.110. Height, location, structural specifications, maximum and
     minimum cut radii and minimum roadway approach angles to the centerline of the street are subject
     to the approval of the agency concerned.
B.   Fee in Lieu of Improvements.
     1.   Where conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical to install such curb, gutter and
          sidewalk, the planning commission may require the applicant to pay to the countymetro township
          a fee equal to the estimated cost of such improvements, as determined by the director of
          development services. Upon payment of such fee by the developer, the countymetro township
          shall assume the responsibility for future installation of such improvements.
     2.   The auditor shall place such fees in the special account established in Section 18.24.190 of this
          code, and shall credit to such account a proportioned share of interest earned from investment of
          countymetro township moneys. Records relating to identification of properties for which fees have
          been collected, fee amounts collected for such properties, and money transfer requests shall be
          the responsibility of the development services division.
C.   Exceptions.
     1.   The planning commission may grant exception to installation of the sidewalk in industrial areas
          where the planning commission determines that the sidewalk is not necessary to serve the public
          need, and the elimination of the sidewalk does not jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare.
     2.   The planning commission may grant exception to installation of curb, gutter and sidewalk in rural
          or estate areas where topographic or other exceptional conditions exist, provided that the public
          health, safety and welfare is preserved.




19.76.220 - Water and sewage facilities.

    In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will involve the use of sewage facilities, and a
sewer, as defined in the countymetro township sewer ordinance, is not available, and all cases where a
proposed supply of piped water under pressure is not available, the sewage disposal and the domestic
water supply shall comply with requirements of the county board of health, and the application for a building
permit shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval from the board of health.




19.76.230 - Disconnection or disincorporation of property.

     Any parcel of property which becomes part of the unincorporated area of the county, because of
disconnection from a municipality or disincorporation of a municipality, shall be designated the zoning
classification such parcel had prior to the date it became part of the municipality. In the event such parcel
was unzoned by the county on the date it became part of the municipality, it shall be designated the zoning
classification of A-5 at the time it becomes unincorporated.




19.76.240 - Animal and fowl restrictions.

     No animals or fowl shall be kept or maintained closer than forty feet from any dwelling on an adjacent
parcel of land, and no barn, stable, coop, pen or corral shall be kept closer than forty feet from any street,
except that in the R-2-10C residential zone, no corral or stable for the keeping of horses may be located
closer to a public street or to any dwelling on an adjacent parcel of land than one hundred feet.



                                                                                                    Page 223
19.76.250 - Circuses, carnivals and Christmas tree sales.                                                           Commented [CW57]: We have also used this provision
                                                                                                                    for fireworks stands.
A.   The development services division director may issue a temporary use permit for a circus and/or
     carnival or other amusement enterprise of a similar nature, transient in nature, or Christmas tree sales,
     providing he shall find that the use will not conflict with the uses in the neighborhood of the subject
     property. To determine the compatibility of uses, the development services division director may call
     a public hearing. Request for such permit shall be submitted in writing.
B.   In issuing a permit, the development services division director may:
     1.   Stipulate the length of time the permit may remain valid;
     2.   Stipulate the hours of operation of the use;
     3.   Stipulate other regulations which are necessary for the public welfare.




19.76.260 - Day-care and preschool center—Special conditions.                                                       Commented [CW58]: This is a list of conditions for
                                                                                                                    commercial day care centers to be allowed in residential
     A day care/preschool center, as defined in Section 19.04.160 of this title, shall be subject to the            areas.
following conditions:
     A.   Must be compatible with existing and proposed land uses in the vicinity;
     B.   Receive recommendation of the Utah State Department of Social Services;
     C.   Provide required parking spaces on the site and an adequate pickup and delivery area;
     D.    New construction must be compatible in design and scale of building with existing development
          in the area;
     E.    Site must have frontage on a street with an existing or proposed right-of-way of eighty feet or
          greater, as identified on the road widening and improvement map attached to the ordinance
          codified herein and available in the planning commission office (except where the site is located
          in the R-M, MD-1, MD-3, C-1, C-2, C-3, O-R-D, M-1 or M-2 zones).




19.76.270 - Overpressure area.                                                                                      Commented [CW59]: Not needed for Copperton.

      Development in the overpressure area as defined in Section 15.14.010 and shown on the special
development standards areas map shall comply with Sections 15.14.030, 15.14.040, 15.14.050 and this
section. The special development standards areas map is available in the development services division
office during regular office hours.




19.76.280 - Commercial renting of dwellings prohibited.                                                             Commented [CW60]: Prohibits short-term rentals unless
                                                                                                                    specifically allowed in the zone.
      It shall be deemed a commercial use and unlawful to rent or lease any dwelling or portion thereof
located within any forestry, residential, agricultural or foothill agricultural zones listed in Section 19.06.010
for lodging or accommodation purposes for a period less than thirty consecutive days except as specifically
allowed in the FM-10, FM-20, FR-0.5, FR-1, FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-10, FR-20, FR-50, FR-100, R-2-6.5, R-2-8,
R-2-10, R-2-10C, R-4-8.5, MD-1, MD-3, and R-M zones.




                                                                                                       Page 224
19.76.290 - Single-family or two-family dwelling—Standards.                                                        Commented [CW61]: These standards were designed to
                                                                                                                   prevent single-wide trailers from being used as dwellings in
     Any detached single-family or two-family dwelling located on an individual lot outside of a mobile home       single-family residential areas.
park or mobile home subdivision must meet the off-street parking requirements in Chapter 19.80 and the
following standards in addition to any others required by law except as provided in subsection I of this
section:
    A.   The dwelling unit must meet the Salt Lake CountyInternational Residential Building Code or, if it
         is a manufactured home, it must be certified under the National Manufactured Housing
         Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, and must have been issued an insignia and
         approved by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development, and must not have been
         altered in violation of such codes. A used manufactured home must be inspected by the
         countymetro township building official or his designated representative prior to placement on a lot
         to insure it has not been altered in violation of such codes.
    B.   The dwelling must be taxed as real property. If the dwelling is a manufactured home, an affidavit
         must be filed with the State Tax Commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 59-2-602.
    C.    The dwelling must be permanently connected to and approved for all required utilities.
    D.   The dwelling must provide a minimum of seventy-two square feet (per dwelling unit) of enclosed
         storage, with a minimum height of six feet, located in the basement or garage area or in an
         accessory storage structure. Such structure shall conform to all applicable building codes.
    E.    The dwelling must be attached to a site-built permanent foundation which meets the Uniform
         Building Code or, if the dwelling is a manufactured home, the installation must meet the ICBO
         Guidelines for Manufactured Housing Installations, including any successors to these standards,
         and the space beneath the structure must be enclosed at the perimeter of the dwelling in
         accordance with such ICBO Guidelines, and constructed of materials that are weather-resistant
         and aesthetically consistent with concrete or masonry type foundation materials. At each exit door
         there must be a landing that is a minimum of thirty-six inches by thirty-six inches and that is
         constructed to meet the requirements of the Uniform Building Code. All manufactured home
         running gear, tongues, axles and wheels must be removed at the time of installation.
    F.   At least sixty percent of the roof of the dwelling must be pitched at a minimum of two and one-
         half to twelve (2.5:12) and shall have a roof surface of wood shakes, asphalt, composition, wood
         shingles, concrete, fiberglass or metal tiles or slate or built-up gravel materials.
    G.    The dwelling shall have exterior siding material consisting of wood, masonry, concrete, stucco,
         masonite, or metal or vinyl lap, or any material meeting the Uniform Building Code or materials of
         like appearance approved by the development services director. The roof overhang must not be
         less than six inches, including rain gutters which may account for up to four inches of overhang,
         measured from the vertical side of the dwelling. The roof overhang requirement shall not apply to
         areas above porches, alcoves and other appendages which together do not exceed twenty-five
         percent of the length of the dwelling. The roof overhang may be reduced to two inches on the
         side of the dwelling facing the rear yard except on corner lots.
    H.    The width of the dwelling shall be at least twenty feet at the narrowest part of its first story for a
         length of at least twenty feet exclusive of any garage area. The width shall be considered the
         lesser of the two primary dimensions. Factory-built or manufactured homes shall be multiple
         transportable sections at least ten feet wide unless transportable in three or more sections, in
         which case only one section need be ten feet wide.
    I.   The development services director may approve deviations from one or more of the developmental
          or architectural standards provided in subsections E through H of this section on the basis of a
          finding that the architectural style proposed provides compensating design features and that the
          proposed dwelling will be compatible and harmonious with existing structures in the vicinity. The



                                                                                                      Page 225
          determination of the development services director may be appealed to the land use hearing
          officer pursuant to the provisions of subsection C of Section 19.92.070.
     J.   Except as limited by subsection K of this section, use of one manufactured home as a dwelling
          on a parcel of land located outside of a mobile home park or mobile home subdivision prior to the
          initiation by the countymetro township of the enactment of the ordinance codified in this section,
          which use does not meet the requirements set forth in subsections A through H of this section
          shall be considered as a nonconforming dwelling though not previously approved by the
          countymetro township if such manufactured home and the parcel on which it is located comes
          into compliance by December 31, 1990, with all development standards which would have been
          applicable to a single-family dwelling located on such parcel at the time the manufactured home
          was first used on the parcel as a dwelling. Development standards shall include subdivision,
          zoning, flood control, outside electrical hookup, applicable fees, health, and fire department
          requirements for single-family dwellings on such parcel.
     K.   The use of a manufactured home as a dwelling located on an individual parcel or lot outside of a
          mobile home park or mobile home subdivision shall terminate on December 31, 1990, unless the
          owner opts to have the manufactured home taxed as real property on or before such date by filing
          an affidavit with the State Tax Commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 59-2-602 and
          meeting the requirements of that statute for having the manufactured home taxed as real property.
     L.   Replacement of an existing nonconforming manufactured home on a lot outside a mobile home
          park or mobile home subdivision shall comply with all requirements herein.




19.76.300 - Oil and gas transmission pipeline notification.                                                         Commented [CW62]: The gas and oil pipeline companies
                                                                                                                    insisted on an ordinance to protect their pipelines, and
A.   A notification area is hereby established for any parcels within six hundred sixty feet from the mapped        these next two sections are the result.
     centerline of an oil or gas transmission pipeline, as indicated by the countymetro township's pipeline
     protection map, a geographic information system (GIS) based map. The countymetro township makes
     no warranty as to the accuracy of this map, which reflects information provided by pipeline operators.
B.   At the time of application for a development permit the countymetro township shall notify the applicant
     if the proposed development is within the notification area and provide contact information for the
     pipeline operator(s) in the area and for Utah's one-call program. It is the obligation of pipeline operators
     to correct or update their information with the countymetro township.
C.    If any proposed development is within the notification area, the applicant for a development permit
     shall contact the pipeline operators) and provide them with a copy of the application and timely notice
     of the first scheduled public hearing on the application, if there is one. The applicant shall file proof of
     this notification with the county planning and development division before any development permit
     may be issued. Proof of notification shall be kept on file with the application. Once the development
     permit is issued, it is the responsibility of the applicant to consider any comments and
     recommendations posed by the pipeline operator(s) to ensure no pipelines are damaged during
     construction of the approved project.
D.   Subdivision plats within two hundred feet from the centerline of a pipeline as shown on the countymetro
     township's pipeline protection map shall show the pipeline location on the plat. The location of all
     known oil or gas transmission lines and related easements shall also be shown on all zoning, building
     and record plat maps.




19.76.310 - Oil and gas transmission pipeline map modification.




                                                                                                       Page 226
A.   It is the obligation of pipeline operators to correct or update the countymetro township's pipeline
     protection map, and they shall do this by filing an application to modify the map. The application shall
     be presented to the development services director or designee for review and approval. Complete
     application must include:
     1.    An explanation from the pipeline operator(s) of how the corrected or proposed location was
           determined for each transmission pipeline; and
     2.    Electronic GIS data or detailed drawings delineating the correct or proposed location.




Chapter 19.77 - WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS                                          Commented [CW63]: This chapter was based on a water-
                                                                                                                    conservation model ordinance provided by Jordan Valley
                                                                                                                    Water. Then, various other requirements were added until
                                                                                                                    it became kind of a mess. This whole chapter should be
19.77.010 - Purpose and intent.                                                                                     simplified.

A.   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the protection and enhancement of Salt Lake
     CountyCopperton Metro Township's environmental, economic, recreational, and aesthetic resources.
     The landscape design and development standards set forth in this chapter are intended to promote
     the following:
     1.    More efficient use of water resources for landscape irrigation purposes;
     2.    Preservation and enhancement of the countymetro township's environmental and aesthetic
           character;
     3.    Enhancement of land use compatibility and promotion of design continuity between adjacent land
           uses;
     4.    Reduction of energy consumption through the prudent placement of plant materials;
     5.    Improved management of stormwater runoff;
     6.    Reduction in the absorption and re-generation of heat from paved vehicular parking areas and
           other impervious surfaces;
     7.    Separation of vehicular and pedestrian functions within on-site vehicular circulation and parking
           areas;
     8.    Spatial and visual separation of parked vehicles from public view and adjacent vehicular travel
           ways;
     9.    Reduction of vehicular headlight glare and intrusive artificial light onto area residences;
     10.    Reduction of development-related environmental impacts through improved management of
           erosion, noise, dust, air pollution and glare;
     11.    Re-introduction of native and low water use plant species into the developed environment;
     12.    Reduction of landscape maintenance responsibilities and costs.




19.77.020 - Scope and applicability.

     Homeowner-provided landscape improvements within the front, side and rear yards of single- and two-
family dwellings are exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
     A.    Newly Established Land Uses. Except as noted above, these landscape standards shall be
           applied to all new developments in the unincorporated area of Salt Lake Countymetro township.


                                                                                                         Page 227
          Residential development projects such as but not limited to planned unit developments,
          condominiums, multifamily residential developments and residential subdivision projects in which
          improvements such as but not limited to the dwelling units, common area, recreational amenities
          and infrastructure improvements are provided by the developer shall be landscaped in
          accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
     B.   Existing Developments. Land use developments in existence at the effective date of this chapter
          shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be brought into compliance with the chapter's provisions
          if:
     1.   The gross floor area of improvements existing on the property at the effective date of this chapter
          are changed, modified, or expanded by more than twenty percent. Compliance under the noted              Commented [CW64]: This should probably be limited to
          circumstances applies whether the changes, modifications, or expansions occur in a single event         “expanded”
          or in incremental stages.
     C.   Off-Street Parking.
     1.   New Developments. Off-street parking facilities for all new developments shall be landscaped in
          accordance with the requirements of this chapter. These include:
          a.   Surface or at-grade parking areas;
          b.   The exterior perimeter of parking structures at all levels, as well as the open-air top parking
               level of such structures.
     2.   Existing Parking Areas. Off-street parking areas in existence on the effective date of this chapter
          shall be brought into compliance with the provisions of the chapter as noted below:
          a.   Expansion by Fifty Percent or Less. When an existing off-street parking area is expanded by
               fifty percent or less the newly established expansion area shall be brought into compliance
               with both the interior and exterior/perimeter landscape requirements of this chapter.
          b.   Expansion by More Than Fifty Percent. When an existing off-street parking area is expanded
               by more than fifty percent, the entire expansion area shall be brought into compliance with
               both the interior and exterior/perimeter landscape standards of this section. The pre-existing
               parking area, while not required to be retroactively brought into compliance with this section's
               interior parking area landscape requirements, shall be made to conform to exterior/perimeter
               area landscape standards.
          c.   Repeated Expansions. Repeated expansions of a parking lot area over a period of time
               commencing with the effective date of this chapter shall be combined in determining whether
               the fifty percent threshold has been reached.
D.   Exemptions. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the following:
     1.   The interior undercover portions of parking structures;
     2.   The interior undercover portions of carports containing no more than ten parking spaces;
     3.   The interior display areas of vehicle and equipment sales lots;
     4.   The interior areas of vehicle and equipment storage lots;
     5.   Properties listed on the national or state historic registers.
               In addition, areas dedicated and used for the following specific purposes are exempt from
          the landscape water allowance limitations of this chapter:
               a.   Sports fields;
               b.   Turf areas within public parks;
               c.   Golf courses;
               d.   Cemeteries.



                                                                                                     Page 228
       Although exempt from landscape water allowance limitations, all other provisions of this chapter shall
apply. In particular, landscaping shall be provided in the interior and perimeter areas of off-street parking
facilities, adjacent to buildings, and along walkways.




19.77.030 - Promotion of maximum water efficiency.                                                                 Commented [CW65]: One would think it would be
                                                                                                                   possible to condense this whole section down to a simple
A.   Establishment and Maintenance of a Site-Specific Landscape Water Allowance. So as to assure more              maximum number of gallons per square foot per year rather
     efficient water consumption in the establishment and long-term maintenance of site landscape                  than putting all this in the ordinance, but…
     improvements, an annual landscape water allowance shall be established and maintained for each
     property improved as set forth in this chapter.
     The landscape water allowance shall be calculated using the following equation:
          Landscape Water Allowance = ET0 × 1.0 × 0.62 × A where landscape water allowance is in
     gallons per year.
          ET0 = Reference evapotranspiration in inches per year.
          1.0 = ET0 adjustment factor, one hundred percent of turf grass ET0 (water year adjustment
     factor).
          0.62 = Conversion factor (to gallons per square feet).
          A = Total irrigated landscape area in square feet.
     The ET0 or reference evapotranspiration for Salt Lake Countymetro township is 31.18 inches per year.
Converting this figure so that a landscape water allowance can be expressed in gallons per year requires
the use of the conversion factor to obtain an equivalent amount in gallons per square feet (19.33). An ET0
adjustment factor of one is used in order to accommodate the use of turf under circumstances that promote
maximum water efficiency.
     Acceptable water efficiency shall be deemed to have been achieved when the approved landscape
plan indicates a landscape water allowance of no more than fifteen gallons per square foot average for the
entire landscaped area of the site. Multiplying this figure by the total irrigated landscape area in square feet
yields the annual water budget for landscape use for the property.
B.   Introduction and Use of Native and Other Drought-Tolerant Plants. In order to promote maximum water
     conservation, not less than eighty percent of the trees and shrubs used on a site shall be water
     conserving species capable of withstanding dry conditions once established. Native plants shall be
     used to the maximum extent feasible. Drought-tolerant grass varieties shall be used in areas planted
     in turf or lawn. Lists of plants that satisfy these requirements and that are available locally may be
     obtained from the director.
C.   Plant Establishment and Arrangement on the Basis of Water Consumption. Among the many ways in
     which plants may be distinguished from one another is categorization on the basis of water use.
     Establishment and arrangement of plants on a site according to the water needs of those plants is
     commonly referred to as hydrozone management. Hydrozone management is required by this chapter
     and shall be implemented through the use of the following:
     1.   Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped together as much as possible.
     2.   Areas landscaped with high water use plants shall be, whenever possible, separated from those
          with low and very low water use by moderate water use landscape zones.
     3.   For projects located at the interface between urban areas and natural (nonirrigated) open space,
          drought-tolerant plants that will blend with the native vegetation shall be selected. Plants that tend
          to accumulate excessive amount of dead wood or debris are to be avoided. Plants with low fuel
          volume or high moisture content are preferred. Every effort is to be taken to minimize fire hazards.




                                                                                                      Page 229
          Lists of plants that satisfy these requirements and that are available locally may be obtained from
          the director.
     4.   Areas with slopes greater than thirty percent shall be landscaped with deep-rooting, water-
          conserving plants for erosion control and soil stabilization.
     5.   Park strips and other landscaped areas less than ten feet wide shall be landscaped with water-
          conserving plants.
D.   Irrigation System Requirements.
     1.    Designer Qualifications. All sprinkler irrigation systems shall be designed by a qualified
          professional who is licensed under Utah Code Title 58 or by a person who is exempt from
          professional licensure requirements for the scope of work performed.
     2.   Design Standards. Irrigation design standards applicable to this chapter shall be as outlined in
          the latest version of the minimum standards for efficient landscape irrigation system design and
          installation prepared by the Utah Irrigation Association, subject to the following modifications and
          additions:
          a.   Pressure Regulation. A pressure regulating valve shall be installed and maintained if the
               static service pressure exceeds eighty pounds per square inch (psi).
          b.   Automatic Controller. All irrigation systems shall include an electric automatic controller with
               multiple programs, multiple repeat cycle capabilities so as to reduce runoff on slopes and
               soils with slow infiltration rates, and a flexible calendar program. All controllers shall be
               capable of utilizing an automatic rain shut-off device, and the ability to adjust run times based
               on a percentage of maximum ET0.
          c.   Slope Adjustments. On slopes exceeding thirty percent, the irrigation system shall consist of
               low precipitation rate rotors or spray heads, drip emitters, or bubblers with a maximum
               precipitation rate of 0.85 inches per hour and adjusted irrigation cycle times to eliminate
               runoff.
          d.   Irrigation Zones and Use. Each zone shall irrigate a landscape with similar site, slope and
               soil conditions and plant materials with similar watering needs. Turf and nonturf areas shall
               be irrigated on separate zones. Drip emitters and sprinklers shall be placed on separate
               zones.
          e.   Tree Irrigation. Drip emitters or bubblers shall be provided for each tree not planted in a turf
               area. Irrigation in the vicinity shall be factored in to prevent under or over-watering and to
               ensure deep root growth. Bubblers shall not exceed one and one-half gallons per minute per
               device. Bubblers for trees shall be placed on a separate valve as warranted by tree species
               and area conditions.
          f.   Turf Zones. Sprinklers shall have matched precipitation rates with each zone.
          g.   Elevation Adjustments. Check valves shall be required where elevation differences will cause
               low-head drainage. Pressure regulating valves and pressure compensating heads and drip
               emitters with a pressure regulating device shall be required where a significant variation in
               water pressure will occur within the irrigation system due to elevation differences.
          h.   Requirements for Drip Irrigation. Drip irrigation lines shall have filters and automatic end flush
               valves and be protected by organic or rock mulch.
          i.   Automatic Controller Zones. Zones with spray or stream sprinklers shall not be scheduled to
                operate between the hours of ten a.m. to seven p.m. so as to reduce water loss from wind
                and evaporation. Drip irrigation systems are subject to no such operational constraints.
          j.   Operational Efficiency. The minimum efficiency required for irrigation systems established in
               accordance with the requirements of this chapter is as follows:
               i.   The distribution efficiency for all fixed spray systems shall be sixty percent.



                                                                                                       Page 230
               ii.   The distribution efficiency for all rotor systems shall be seventy percent.
          k.   Scheduling of System Operations. A schedule shall be developed which allows for plant
               material to be established. This shall have a maximum two-year time period. Once
               established, a revised schedule shall be developed for maintenance of the plant material.
               The schedule presently in effect shall be posted at the controller. The schedule shall reflect
               an application rate which achieves optimum system efficiency, a minimum one-hour time
               interval between all applications, and provisions against irrigation during restricted hours.




19.77.040 - Landscape design standards and guidelines.

A.   Standards Applicable to All Developments. Required site landscape improvements shall be provided
     in accordance with the standards and design guidelines set forth in this chapter. The standards set
     forth herein are numerically measurable so as to readily facilitate the preparation, review and approval
     of landscape plan submittals and the subsequent verification of compliance with the requirements of
     the chapter. Design guidelines, though not precisely measurable, are intended to clarify the principles
     associated with specified standards, provide guidance for the review and approval of submitted
     landscape plans, and provide flexibility for design professionals who wish to propose alternative
     compliance approaches.
B.    Retention of Significant Natural Features. Features that are unique to a property, such as but not
     limited to that property's natural topography, existing vegetation, or riparian features shall be taken
     into consideration in the planning and design of landscape improvements for that property. Priority is
     to be given to the preservation or protection of existing natural areas, particularly where mature or
     specimen trees or wooded riparian areas are a part of a proposed development site. The proposed
     locations of streets, buildings and lots shall, as much as possible, minimize disturbance to significant
     existing trees.
C.   Tree Preservation, Removal and Replacement.                                                                    Commented [CW66]: Preservation of existing trees on
     1.   All healthy trees having a caliper of four inches in size or larger shall be preserved to the maximum     undeveloped parcels is one of the priorities of this
          extent feasible. Preserved trees shall be credited to the satisfaction of replacement trees on a          ordinance.
          three to one caliper-to-caliper basis.
     2.   Preserved trees shall be credited toward the satisfaction of the tree planting requirements of this
          chapter.
     3.   Where existing trees are to be protected, the following standards shall apply:
          a.   A fenced tree protection zone shall be established around each tree or cluster of trees to be
               retained. The perimeter of this zone, which shall coincide with the drip line of the tree or trees
               to be protected, shall be clearly marked with high-visibility materials at a minimum height of
               four feet.
          b.   The storage or movement of equipment, material, debris or fill is prohibited within the fenced
               tree protection zone so as to minimize soil compaction.
          c.   The cleaning of equipment or material or the storage and disposal of waste material such as
               paints, oils, solvents, asphalt, concrete, motor oil or any other material harmful to the life of
               a tree is prohibited within the drip line of any protected tree or group of trees.
          d.   No cut or fill is permitted within the drip line of any protected existing tree or group of trees
               unless a qualified arborist, forester or landscape architect has evaluated and approved the
               disturbance.
          e.   All protected existing trees shall be pruned as specified by a qualified arborist or forester.
          f.   No damaging attachment, wires, signs or permits may be fastened to any protected tree.



                                                                                                       Page 231
           g.   Large property areas containing protected trees and separated from construction or land
                clearing areas, road rights-of-way and utility easements may be "ribboned off," rather than
                erecting protective fencing around each tree as required above. This may be accomplished
                by placing metal t-post stakes a maximum of fifty feet apart and tying ribbon or rope from
                stake-to-stake along the outside perimeters of such areas being cleared.
     4.    The removal of trees is allowed under the following circumstances:
           a.   Where trees have naturally fallen or are determined by a licensed arborist to be dead or
                dying.
           b.   Where trees have been diagnosed by a qualified arborist as unhealthy beyond reasonable
                rehabilitation.
           c.   Where trees are determined to be potentially harmful to the public health, safety or welfare.
           d.   Where it has been determined by the countymetro township that tree removal is necessary
                to restore clear visibility at driveways and intersections.
           e.   Where the preservation of trees would prevent reasonable site grading to accommodate a
                functional arrangement of buildings and related improvements on the property. Written
                documentation of the above is required prior to the removal of any tree.
     5.    Trees having a caliper of four inches in size or greater which are removed shall be replaced on
           the development site by trees of no less than two-inch caliper in size. The required replacement
           ratio shall be one tree for every two caliper inches (cumulative) of trees removed. Replacement
           trees shall not be credited toward the satisfaction of the tree planting requirements of this chapter
           but shall be in addition to that otherwise specified.
D.    Exposure to Sun and Wind. Plant selection and placement shall recognize the importance of energy
     conservation. Deciduous trees which are sun tolerant shall be planted on the south and west sides of
     buildings so as to provide shade from summer sun while allowing winter sun to radiate into buildings.
     Shade-tolerant plants and evergreen trees shall be planted on the north to northwest sides of buildings
     in order to reduce the chilling effects of winter winds.
E.   New Plantings. The measurements and specifications for all live plants used to fulfill the requirements         Commented [CW67]: This is a checklist of issues for the
     of this chapter shall be as set forth in the American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60.1-204) as            landscape designer to be aware of has he/she draws the
     published and periodically amended by the American Nursery and Landscape Association. The                       landscape plans for a development.
     following are minimums in relation to those standards. Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted to
     prohibit the provision of landscape improvements in excess of these minimums.
     1.    Plant Quality. Required plant materials shall be nursery or field grown, unless otherwise approved,
           and shall be healthy, well-branched vigorous stock with a growth habit normal to the species and
           variety, free from defects decay, disfiguring roots, sun-scald, injuries, abrasions of the bark, plant
           diseases, insect pest eggs, borers and all forms of infestations or objectionable disfigurements of
           diseases, insects and injuries.
     2.    Plant Coverage and Growth Rate. The quantity and size of materials planted shall be sufficient to
           attain a percentage of coverage of seventy-five percent of organically planted areas within three
           years of initial planting.
     3.    Species Diversity. A variety of plant species shall be utilized in all site landscaping. No one species
           may make up more than twenty-five percent of the total nonturf plant materials within the
           landscaped area. In order to prevent uniform insect or disease susceptibility and to stem the
           untimely degeneration or premature deterioration of trees planted or retained on a development
           site or in the adjacent area, species diversity is required. The following minimum requirements
           shall apply.

          Total Number of Trees on Site                      Maximum Percent of Any One Species




                                                                                                        Page 232
                   10—19                                                   50%

                   20—39                                                   33%

                   40—59                                                   25%

                 60 or more                                                15%




              Special consideration shall be given to canyon areas to protect against decimation due to
         insect or disease infestations.
    4.   Lawn and Turf Areas. Areas proposed for planting in turf or lawn shall be a minimum of ten feet
         in width. Drought-tolerant grass varieties shall be established and maintained.
    5.   Mulch. All landscape areas not planted with shrubs, perennials, turf or other groundcover shall be
         covered with a minimum three-inch layer of mulch (except around the crown of plants) to retain
         water, inhibit weed growth, and moderate soil temperature. Newly planted trees in areas
         predominantly improved with turf shall be provided a plant-free mulched area with a minimum
         radius of four feet around the trunks in order to protect the trunks from turf-maintenance
         operations and expedite tree root establishment. Nonporous materials (e.g., plastic) shall not be
         placed under the mulch. Bare soil is not permitted.
    6.   Tree Placement. Trees shall be located to provide summer shade and limit winter shade on walks,
         parking lots, and streets.
    7.   Root Accommodation. Prior to the installation of trees, a determination shall be made as to
         whether root barriers are necessary to prevent roots from uplifting or cracking sidewalks or other
         hard surface improvements in the vicinity of the tree. Root barrier collars and root path trenches
         shall be installed as needed to provide such protection and to ensure healthy tree root growth.
    8.   Tree Size Requirements at Planting. All new and replacement trees shall meet the following
         minimum size requirements at planting:

                   a. Deciduous                                          two-inch caliper

           b. Ornamental and flowering                            one and one-half inch caliper

                   c. Evergreen                                            six feet tall




    Where the above plant materials are secured on the basis of container size, equivalency shall be in
accordance with the American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60.1-204) as published and periodically
amended by the American Nursery and Landscape Association.
    9.   Shrub Size at Planting. All shrubs shall be a minimum of twelve inches in height or spread
         (typically five gallon in size at planting, except when used solely for screening purposes, in which
         case twenty-four inch in height or spread is required.




                                                                                                   Page 233
     10.    Area Requirements for Landscape Improvements. No less than twenty percent of the gross area
           of a property subject to the requirements of this chapter shall be improved and maintained as
           landscape area. Land area encumbered by buildings, structures, paving and other impervious
           surfaces not related to on-site landscape improvements shall not be considered in the calculation
           of landscape area.                                                                                       Commented [CW68]: This is a strange place to have this
F.   Design Guidelines. The intent of design guidelines is to acknowledge the expertise and integrity of            requirement, and is often missed by professionals going
     licensed design professionals and to afford them a commensurate level of flexibility in achieving the          through this ordinance looking for the requirements. It
                                                                                                                    would seem more appropriate under 19.77.050
     purposes and intent of this chapter. Guidelines are included in this chapter so as to clarify or expand
     upon the principles associated with specified standards. They are further provided for guidance in the         Commented [CW69]: Another list of issues the designer
     preparation and submittal of complying landscape plans. Design guidelines may be used either in                needs to take into account.
     conjunction with or in lieu of other required on-site landscape improvements. When employed in lieu
     of strict compliance with chapter provisions, substantiation of compliance with the purposes and intent
     of this chapter is required.
     1.    Separation and Screening with Plant Material. The intent of this guideline is to soften long
           expanses of building walls, fences and other hard-surface barriers and to effectively screen such
           surfaces from undisturbed on- or off-site view. Its further intent is to separate and screen new
           buildings and ancillary site improvements and activities from off-premise view.
     2.    Integration with Plantings. The intent of this guideline is twofold; (1) to provide better integration
           of newly constructed or remodeled site building improvements and outdoor spaces with other site
           improvements in the vicinity, or (2) to significantly enhance area characteristics through the
           coordinated introduction of new architectural themes, outdoor areas, and landscape
           improvements into areas in need of rehabilitation. In either event the incorporation of a diversity
           of plant materials, colors, textures, heights and aesthetic considerations of a similar nature may
           be employed.
     3.    Establishing Privacy. Privacy is particularly important where larger buildings are proposed next to
           the side or rear yards of smaller buildings. In such instances a higher-than-normal incidence of
           vertical landscape elements may be employed to address privacy concerns.
     4.     Land Form Shaping. Retention of existing land form is encouraged where site topography
           beneficially serves aesthetic and aquifer recharge purposes. Where reconfiguration of existing
           topographic conditions on a site is required to achieve these purposes, such grade changes
           should be either reminiscent of or complementary to natural land forms in the vicinity. The
           resulting land form modifications should, in either event, incorporate a high degree of both
           horizontal and vertical land form articulation, creating both berms and swales for aesthetic variety
           and groundwater collection purposes.
     5.    Visual Integration of Fences or Walls. Security fences and solid visual barriers commonly detract
           from the aesthetics of the area in which they're established. Similarly, though not so severely,
           garden walls, privacy fences, screen panels, arbors, and structures of a like nature may adversely
           affect area aesthetics. In such instances creative landscape enhancements may be employed to
           change the sense of proximity to such structures and to improve area aesthetics.
          In applying these or similar strategies to achieve the purposes and intent of this chapter, the
     objectives with regards to aesthetic enhancement of on-site improvements are to:
           a.   Add visual interest adjacent to large expanses of building walls;
           b.   Enhance the architectural features of new building construction;
           c.   Provide better site integration of structural improvements;
           d.   Soften hard edges;
           e.   Enhance the compatibility of land uses of different character, intensity, and density;
           f.   Reduce the potentially adverse impacts of site-generated noise;
           g.   Screen views into or between windows and defined outdoor spaces;



                                                                                                       Page 234
               In applying these or similar strategies with regards to the integration of on-site improvements
          with surrounding areas, the objectives are to:
               i.     Mitigate potential conflicts between divergent land uses, development densities or
                      intensities, and building design or scale;
               ii.    Maintain privacy for existing area residences;
               iii.    Provide appropriate transitions between developed, managed landscape areas and
                      those comprised of more natural vegetation;
               iv.     Introduce high quality site improvements into areas in need of redevelopment.




19.77.050 - Landscape yards or setbacks and buffer areas.

A.   Landscaping Required.                                                                                           Commented [CW70]: This section deals with minimum
     1.   Improvement Requirements in Relation to Yard Depth. In all zones where a front yard is required            landscaping required in front yards and street-facing side
          the entire frontage and depth of that yard area and any side yard area abutting a street shall be          yards.
          landscaped. Visibility at intersecting streets shall be maintained as set forth in Section 19.76.160
          of this title. Parking areas shall not encroach on these minimum required setbacks except as
          herein authorized. The perimeter boundaries of all off-street parking areas that abut streets
          accessible to the public shall be landscaped and screened from public view. Specified yard area
          depth measurements are from the public right-of-way or private street easement boundary.
          a.   Front and street side areas where a yard or setback depth of no less than twenty feet is
               maintained.
               i.     An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio of 3:1 (three feet
                      horizontal to one foot vertical) so as to provide a meandering earthen berm traversing
                      the entire width of the area and having a maximum height of three feet and an average
                      height of thirty-two inches, as measured from the grade of the closest abutting sidewalk
                      or top of curb.
               ii.    Landscaping within yards located between a street and a parking area shall include
                      street trees as specified in this chapter. In addition, not less than fifty percent of these
                      landscaped yards shall include a mix of evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous
                      perennials, and nonturf groundcover. The balance of this area may be planted in turf
                      and utilized for the placement of large boulders or similar visual accents so long as the
                      combination of berms, plantings and visual accents effectively screen from public view
                      any parked vehicles in contiguous off-street parking areas on the property.
          b.   Provisions for Yard Reductions to No Less Than Fifteen Feet. Front and street side yards or
               setback areas with no abutting off-street parking may be reduced to a depth of not less than
               fifteen feet with provision of the following:
               i.     An open decorative fence (picket, split rail, etc.) on the interior side of the landscaped
                      area. Alternatively, a continuous hedge no less than three feet in height at planting, as
                      measured from the grade of the abutting sidewalk or street, may be provided.
               ii.    An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio of 3:1 (three feet
                      horizontal to one foot vertical) so as to provide a meandering earthen berm traversing
                      the entire width of the area and having a maximum height of thirty-two inches and an
                      average height of two feet, as measured from the grade of the closest abutting sidewalk
                      or top of curb.
               iii.   No less than seventy-five percent coverage of the landscaped area with street trees
                      (includes canopy at maturity) as specified in this chapter together with a mix of sub-
                      canopy evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous perennials, and nonturf


                                                                                                        Page 235
                groundcover. The balance of this area may be planted in turf and utilized for the
                placement of large boulders or similar visual accents.
     c.   Provisions for encroachment of off-street parking areas into required front and street side
          yards or setback areas.
          i.    Encroachments to Within Twelve Feet. Off-street parking areas may encroach into
                required front and street side yard or setback areas such that a minimum depth of not
                less than twelve feet is maintained subject to provision of the following:
                (A)    An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio of 3:1 (three
                      feet horizontal to one foot vertical) so as to provide an earthen berm traversing the
                      entire width of the area with a height of no less than thirty inches above the grade
                      of the abutting sidewalk or street and supported on its interior side by a masonry
                      retaining wall no less than four feet in height above the grade of the abutting off-
                      street parking area surface. The use of this alternative is restricted to properties
                      where it is feasible to provide a parking area with a finished grade at least two feet
                      below the grade of the adjacent street.
                (B)     No less than seventy-five percent coverage of the landscaped area with street
                      trees (includes canopy at maturity) as specified in this chapter, together with a mix
                      of sub-canopy evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous perennials, and
                      nonturf groundcover. The balance of this area may be planted in turf and utilized
                      for the placement of large boulders or similar visual accents.
          ii.   Encroachments to Within Eight Feet. Off-street parking areas may encroach into
                required front and street side yard or setback areas such that a minimum depth of not
                less than eight feet is maintained subject to provision of the following:
                (A)    A horizontally and vertically articulated decorative wall along the interior edge of
                      the yard or setback area. Said wall shall have a minimum height of thirty-six inches,
                      a maximum height of forty-eight inches and an average overall height of forty-two
                      inches as measured from the adjacent paved parking area, if provided, or from the
                      adjacent sidewalk or street surface level, if not. In plan view the decorative screen
                      wall shall vary by eight to sixteen-inch offsets at linear intervals along the wall of
                      every eight to ten feet.
                (B)     No less than ninety percent coverage of the landscaped area with street trees
                      (includes canopy at maturity) as specified in this chapter, together with a mix of
                      sub-canopy evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous perennials, and nonturf
                      groundcover. The balance of this area must be surfaced with mulch in accordance
                      with the standards of this chapter and may be utilized for the placement of large
                      boulders or similar visual accents.
                     NOTE: Site improvements in conjunction with permitted and conditionally
                permitted uses in the M-1 and M-2 manufacturing zones are exempt from the above
                landscape area requirements.
2.   Plant Quantities. Regardless of depth, all landscape areas adjacent to a street (including required
     park strips) shall be planted and maintained with the following:
     a.   One and one-fourth trees per one thousand sq. ft. of the ground or main floor level of
          nonresidential buildings in commercial zones.
     b.   Two trees per one thousand sq. ft. of the ground or main floor level of buildings in
          manufacturing zones.
     c.   One tree per twenty-five lineal feet of street frontage (not applicable to manufacturing and
          warehouse uses).
     d.   One shrub per four lineal feet of building foundation (may be grouped).



                                                                                                  Page 236
          e.   Any combination of other live plant materials and decorative features consistent with the
               requirements of this chapter.
B.   Interior Side and Rear Yards. The side and rear yard areas required by this title shall be landscaped
     and maintained as set forth in this chapter. Overhanging or cantilevered structures may not encroach
     upon such areas.
C.    Buffer Areas Between Nonresidential and Residential Land Uses. A landscaped buffer area not less             Commented [CW71]: This provision ought to be changed,
     than twenty feet wide shall be required between nonresidential and residential uses. A minimum of             because it appears to conflict with the minimum setback
     one tree for every twenty-five linear feet of landscape buffer is required. Either a linear or cluster        requirement for buildings in some cases. It ought to clarify
     arrangement of trees is allowed so long as the spacing of provided trees adequately screens the               that “except for the area occupied by buildings as allowed
     nonresidential use from the adjacent residential area. If a linear arrangement of trees is provided, tree     by the minimum yard requirements of the underlying
     spacing shall not exceed twenty-five feet on center.                                                          zone…” this buffer is required.




19.77.060 - Parking lot landscaping.                                                                               Commented [CW72]: This section was intended to
                                                                                                                   provide some landscaping and shade requirements in
A.   Interior Parking Planters. Landscaped planters, which may incorporate depressions for the collection          parking lots to avoid the creation of “heat islands.”
     of stormwater run-off, shall be provided in any parking lot containing twenty or more parking spaces.         However, it could be worded better to be more clear about
     These planters shall be constructed to the following standards.                                               what is expected up front.
     1.   Landscape Planter Types.
          a.   Islands. Islands are planter areas parallel to and situated at the end of a row of individual
               parking stalls.
          b.   Peninsulas. Peninsulas are planter areas parallel to and situated at specified intervals within
               a row of parking stalls.
          c.   Medians. Medians are planter areas perpendicular to and separating opposing rows of head-
               in parking stalls.
     2.   Landscape Planter Construction.
          a.   Landscape planters shall be constructed of continuous concrete curb in accordance with
               applicable countymetro township standards and of no less than six inches in height unless
               a depression area for collection of stormwater runoff is provided.
          b.   A minimum four-foot radius curbing shall be provided along drive aisles.
     3.   Location, Spacing and Minimum Number of Landscape Planters Required. Landscape planters
          shall be provided in accordance with the following:
          a.   One island at each end of a row of parking stalls, together with either:
               i.    One peninsula for every six contiguous parking spaces or portion thereof per row where
                      uninterrupted vehicular traffic flow is allowed between abutting parking spaces; or
               ii.   One continuous median per row of head-in parking stalls.
          b.   Flexibility is allowed in the configuration of landscape planters for rows with angled parking.
     4.   Landscape Planter Length. The length of each landscape planter, measured from face of curb to
          face of curb, shall be as follows:
          a.   As an island at the end of a row of individual parking stalls, fifteen feet; for opposing rows of
               head-in parking stalls, thirty feet.
          b.   As a peninsula parallel to a row of parking spaces, fifteen feet.
          c.   As a median abutting a single row of parking stalls or as a divider median separating
               opposing rows of head-in parking stalls, equal to the length of each row.



                                                                                                      Page 237
     5.   Landscape Planter Width. The width of each landscape planter, measured from face of curb to
          face of curb, shall be no less than:
          a.   Eight feet for each island at the end of a row of parking stalls.
          b.   Nine feet for each peninsula within a row of parking stalls.
          c.   Eight feet, with consideration for vehicle overhang, where divider medians occur adjacent to
               head-in, and ten feet, with the same considerations, for divider medians separating opposing
               rows of head-in parking stalls. Where divider medians are improved with pedestrian
               walkways, the specified width is exclusive of the width of those walkways.
     6.    Vehicular Ingress/Egress Accommodation. That portion (eighteen inches minimum) of each
          landscape planter peninsula or island adjacent to a vehicular parking space shall be finished with
          a pervious surface suitable for temporary pedestrian use when exiting a vehicle. Alternatively,
          each such parking space may be provided at an additional eighteen-inch width and striped for
          pedestrian use. Stepping stones and graveled pathways shall be dispersed across and along
          median islands to minimize soil compaction and protect plant root zones.
     7.   Distribution of Landscaped Planters. Interior planting areas shall be located to most effectively
          accommodate stormwater runoff, provide positive drainage away from buildings, and provide
          maximum shade for large expanses of paving.
B.   Plant Quantity, Size, and Diversity in Parking Lot Landscaped Planters.
          l.   Minimum Number of Plants Required.
               a.    Within landscape planter islands and peninsulas.
                     i.     One shade tree and four shrubs for each fifteen-foot planter,
                     ii.    Two shade trees and eight shrubs per thirty-foot planter,
                     iii.    Three additional shrubs where lighting standards are located in the planter.
               b.    Within landscape planter medians.
                     i.     Two shade trees and eight shrubs for every thirty linear feet, together with three
                            additional shrubs for each lighting standard.
     2.   Minimum Size Requirements at Planting.
          a.   Trees. Trees required for installation within interior parking areas shall be no less than two-
               inch caliper in size at planting.
          b.   Shrubs. No less what is customarily accommodated within a five gallon size container, in
               accordance with industry standards.
          c.   Groundcovers. No less than what is customarily accommodated within a one gallon size
               container in accordance with industry standards.
     3.   Tree and Shrub Distribution.
          a.   Within landscape planter islands and peninsulas.
               i.    In order to minimize damage by vehicles, trees shall not be planted closer than three
                      feet to top back of curb or exterior edge of depressed parking lot landscaped planters.
               ii.   Shrubs shall be situated such that they remain within the confines of the planter at
                     maturity.
          b.   Within landscape planter medians.
               i.    Trees shall be planted such that they are dispersed from end to end of the planter at
                     twenty-five to thirty-foot intervals (flexibility in actual placement is permitted).




                                                                                                      Page 238
                ii.   Shrubs shall be planted such that they assume as natural appearance as possible
                      (flexibility in actual placement is permitted) yet remain within the confines of the planter
                      at maturity.
     4.    Diversity of Plants. A mix of coniferous and deciduous trees and shrubs shall be provided in
           parking lot landscapes. Not less than forty percent of all trees and shrubs shall be coniferous
           except as warranted by site conditions.
C.    Mulch Required. Organic mulch shall be spread to a minimum depth of three inches and rock to at
     least two and one-half inches in depth in all parking lot landscaped planters. Appropriate measures
     shall be taken to retain the mulch within the planter and to renew it as necessary. Bare dirt is prohibited.
D.    Irrigation. Landscape planters within parking areas shall be irrigated with drip emitter or bubbler type
     irrigation systems only.
E.   Wheel Stops. Where vehicular parking stalls abut interior parking area landscaping that is not situated
     within and protected by a landscape planter, wheel stops shall be installed at a minimum of two feet
     from the edge of that landscape area.




19.77.070 - Screening of service and mechanical equipment.

A.   Screening Required. Service areas and on-grade mechanical equipment shall be screened from public
     view by plants, solid opaque fencing, berms, or a combination thereof. These elements shall also be
     sited to minimize their visibility and impact or enclosed so as to appear to be an integral part of the
     architectural design of the building. Site elements that are subject to this provision include but are not
     limited to the following:
     1.    Air conditioning units;
     2.    Electrical transformers;
     3.    Loading areas and docks;
     4.    Mechanical equipment;
     5.    Outdoor storage areas;
     6.    Public utility transformers;
     7.    Service yards;
     8.    Telephone transformers;
     9.    Trash collection areas;
     10.    Trash dumpsters.




19.77.080 - Functional and aesthetic enhancements.

A.   Pedestrian and Vehicular Pathways. The design of pedestrian and vehicular travel ways for multiple-
     family, residential, retail commercial, office, public and quasi-public, and mixed use developments shall
     incorporate plantings and related landscape improvements for separation of pedestrian and vehicular
     traffic movements, improved pedestrian convenience and safety, and better-defined vehicular
     circulation and parking.
B.   Building Entrances, Drop-off and Pick-up, and Outdoor Dining Areas. Plantings and related landscape
     improvements shall be incorporated into the design of building entrances, drop-off and pick-up, and
     outdoor dining areas in order to: separate these areas from on-site vehicular circulation and parking


                                                                                                        Page 239
     facilities and from off-site traffic; enhance pedestrian comfort, convenience and safety; and facilitate
     outdoor dining with maximum insulation from vehicular traffic impacts.
C.    Drive-Through Service Facilities and Automatic Car Washes. Plantings and related landscape
     improvements shall be provided in conjunction with drive-through service facilities and automatic car
     washes in order to: introduce a more aesthetically pleasing approach to these types of vehicular
     activities on newly developed or redeveloped sites; better integrate these types of land uses into the
     established character of surrounding area improvements; and screen queued vehicles from the view
     of passing motorists on adjacent roadways.




19.77.090 - Landscaping of detention/retention basins and ponds.

     A planting area and related landscape improvements shall be incorporated into the design of all lands
to be used as detention/retention basins and ponds. Such landscaping may include shade and ornamental
trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, turf, groundcover and other plant materials and related landscape
improvements.




19.77.100 - Landscape plan submittal requirements.                                                               Commented [CW73]: It is unfortunate that something as
                                                                                                                 simple as a landscape ordinance has to be this complex.
A.   General Provisions.
     1.   All applications for site development plan approval for land uses subject to this chapter shall be
          accompanied by a landscape plan package and water allowance worksheet prepared in
          accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
     2.   Submitted landscape plan packages shall be prepared and certified for compliance with all
          requirements of this chapter by a landscape architect licensed to practice in the state of Utah
          under Title 58 of Utah Code. A landscape designer certified by the Utah Nursery and Landscape
          Association may submit a landscape plan package if the certified designer is employed by the
          contractor installing plantings of the specific project submitted.
     3.   All submitted irrigation plans shall be prepared by a qualified professional who is licensed under
          Utah Code Title 58 or by a person who is exempt from professional licensure requirements for
          the scope of work performed.
B.   Landscape Plan Package Contents. The information to be provided with the landscape plan package
     shall be presented in the following format:
     1.   Conceptual Planting Plan. The intent of the conceptual planting plan is to illustrate the overall
          design concept for landscaping and depict how it relates to the proposed development of the site.
          The conceptual planting plan shall describe the general landscape design intent and the water
          conservation concept statement of the proposed landscape improvements. At a minimum, the
          conceptual planting plan shall include the information as set forth in the following tables codified
          in this chapter.
     2.   Preliminary Plan. The intent of the preliminary plan is to illustrate the master landscape plan for
          the development. The landscape preliminary plan shall state how the proposal is consistent with
          the purposes and intent of these regulations as set forth at the beginning of this chapter. At a
          minimum, the preliminary landscape plan shall include the information set forth in the following
          tables codified in this chapter.
     3.   Final Plan. The intent of the final plan is to ensure each phase of the final landscape plan is
          consistent with the master landscape plan for the development and to illustrate the specific
          landscaping details for each phase. The final landscape plan shall describe the design intention



                                                                                                    Page 240
         and shall state how the proposal is consistent with this section, and/or with the preliminary
         landscape plan, if one was required. The final landscape plan shall be on a separate page from
         the final site development plan. The scale shall not be greater than one inch equals to fifty feet.
         At a minimum, the final landscape shall include the information set forth in the following tables.
    4.   Project Data.

PROJECT DATA SHEET

                             Information Required                               Sketch Preliminary Final

The project title and countymetro township site development plan application
  number (the file number assigned to the development proposal that the            X          X        X
                       landscape plan is associated with)

               Preparation date and issue/revision/date table                      X          X        X

 The name, address, telephone number, fax, and e-mail of the applicant or
                                                                                   X          X        X
                           authorized agent

   The name, address, telephone number, fax, and e-mail of the landscape
 architect, landscape designer, or other qualified professional who prepared
                                                                                   X          X        X
  the landscape plan, together with their professional registration stamp (as
                                  required)

 The landscape contractor to be used on the project, if known at the time of
                                                                                   X          X        X
                                application

     Site vicinity and location map, including the street address and tax
                                                                                   X          X        X
                     identification number of the property

                                  Sheet index                                      X          X        X

 General landscape design intent statement including the general character
 and location of proposed landscaping and open area and how it meets the           X          X        X
                        intent of these regulations

                         Annual water budget worksheet                             X          X        X

               Soils analysis and proposed soils amendments                                   X        X

              Signature block for landscape package approval                                           X




    5.   Grading and Drainage Plan.


                                                                                                  Page 241
GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN SHEET

                            Information Required                                 Sketch Preliminary Final

Scale, north arrow, site boundary including adjacent property lines and street
                                                                                   X         X        X
                                    names

                    Existing and proposed adjacent uses                            X         X        X

 Existing and proposed private driveways, off-street parking areas, patios,
                                                                                   X         X        X
            walkways, service areas and other paved surfaces

     Existing and proposed buildings and structures (general locations)            X         X        X

               Existing and proposed utilities and easements                                 X        X

                     Limits of proposed site disturbance                                     X        X

     Existing and proposed building and structure finish floor elevations                             X

   Spot elevations and contour lines at no more than one foot intervals to
 determine high points and low points, positive drainage of paved surfaces,                  X        X
                   wall heights and other vertical control

           Existing landscaping, including location, type and size                 X         X        X

             Any existing landscaping proposed to be removed                       X         X        X




    6.   Landscape Planting Plan.

LANDSCAPE PLANTING PLAN SHEET

                            Information Required                                 Sketch Preliminary Final

 Base plan consisting in information included on the grading and drainage
                                                                                   X         X        X
                                   plan

                     Limits of proposed site disturbance                           X         X        X




                                                                                                 Page 242
  General landscape improvements with planting symbols clearly drawn to
indicate location and general plant category (deciduous tree, evergreen tree,       X         X        X
            deciduous shrub, evergreen shrub, groundcover, etc.)

Legend of plant category symbols keyed to general plant material schedule
  indicating quantities of each plant category and listing of plant species                   X        X
              (include Latin name) included in each category

     Typical detail drawings at one inch equals to twenty feet to illustrate
 perimeter treatment, buffering, typical front yard, and any special treatment                X        X
                               areas on the site

 All hydrozone boundaries and total area within each hydrozone with each
                                                                                              X        X
         hydrozone clearly labeled high, moderate, low or very low

  Detailed landscape improvements with planting symbols clearly drawn to
   indicate each plant (deciduous tree, evergreen tree, deciduous shrub,                      X        X
                    evergreen shrub, groundcover, etc.)

Detailed plant material schedule with abbreviation identification key, quantity
  of each plant, botanical name, common name, hydrozone rating (high,                         X        X
    moderate, low or very low), plant/container size, spacing and notes

   Define areas to be considered open areas and if they will be public or
   private. Indicate how open areas will be maintained including; erosion
                                                                                              X        X
    control, re-vegetation, and weed management both during and after
                                construction

 Plant installation, mulching, tree staking, and any other applicable planting
                                                                                              X        X
                            and installation details

 Soil preparation details including instructions to scarify planting pit bottom
   and sides and surface ground planes to promote root penetration in                         X        X
                               compacted soils

 Protection of existing plant and other site features to remain. Clearly identify
the locations, species, size and condition of all significant trees, each labeled   X         X        X
               as to its intended retention, relocation or removal




    7.   Soils Report. A soils report is required in all cases. Special procedures or requirements shall be
         incorporated in the preparation and recommendations of the soils report where the past use of a
         site has resulted in soil contamination or where difficult soil or landscaping conditions are known
         to exist. The soils report shall describe:



                                                                                                  Page 243
          a.   The depth, composition, fertility, bulk density, and landscaping suitability of the top soil and
               subsoil at the site;
          b.   Soil class;
          c.   An approximate soil infiltration rate for site soils, either measured or derived from soil
               texture/infiltration rate tables. A range of infiltration rates shall be noted where appropriate;
          d.   A measure of pH, electroconductivity (ERC), salt absorption ratio (SAR) and organic matter;
          e.   Recommendations for retention and re-use of viable top soil on the site together with such
               soil amendments as are necessary to ensure the health and sustainability of the landscaping
               to be planted.
          The final recommendations of the soils report shall be incorporated into the landscape planting
     plan and implemented with site planting operations.
     8.   Irrigation Plan. A detailed irrigation plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the landscape
          planting plan and shall reflect the requirements set forth in Section 19.77.030(E)(2) of this chapter.
     9.   Irrigation Schedule. The irrigation schedule required in Section 19.74.030(E)(2)(k) of this chapter
          shall be provided in tabular form and shall specify:
          a.   Plant type (e.g., turf, trees, low water use plants);
          b.   Irrigation type (e.g., sprinklers, drip, bubblers);
          c.   Flow rate in gallons per minute;
          d.   Precipitation rate in inches per hour (sprinklers only);
          e.   Run times in minutes per day;
          f.   Number of water days per week;
          g.   Cycle time to avoid runoff.




19.77.110 - Landscape plan package acceptance.

A.    Standard Compliance Procedures. Submitted landscape plan documentation packages, water
     allowance worksheets, irrigation plans and irrigation schedules prepared in strict compliance with the
     requirements of this chapter shall be accepted upon certification of compliance with those
     requirements by the qualified professionals who prepared and submitted those plans. Final approval
     shall be as granted by the director upon completion of an internal or external review to assure
     ordinance compliance.
B.   Alternative Compliance Procedures. As authorized by this chapter, an alternative landscape and tree           Commented [CW74]: This provision has come in handy
     protection plan may be substituted in whole or in part for a landscape plan prepared in strict compliance     for those times when someone wants to propose a true
     with the chapters requirements.                                                                               desert-plant xeriscape type landscape plan.
     1.   Alternative Plan Preparation and Submittal. Alternative landscape plans shall be prepared and
          submitted in accordance with submittal requirements for a landscape plan package. The submittal
          shall clearly identify and discuss the modifications and alternatives proposed and the ways in
          which the plan will better accomplish the purposes and intent of this chapter than would a plan
          which strictly complies with the chapter's specified standards.
     2.    Alternative Plan Review Criteria. Certification of alternative plans for compliance with the
          purposes and intent of this chapter requires that the qualified professional who prepared the plans
          substantiate in writing how the alternative proposal meets or exceeds the degree of compliance
          that would be achieved through the strict application of specified standards. In making such




                                                                                                      Page 244
          assertions the qualified professional who prepared the plans shall clearly demonstrate how the
          alternative plans will:
          a.   Provide exceptional preservation and incorporation of existing site vegetation;
          b.   Provide significant protection of natural areas and features;
          c.   Provide for maximum retention of existing tree canopy cover;
          d.   Create exceptional enhancement of neighborhood continuity and connectivity;
          e.   Provide for extensive accommodation of nonvehicular access and use;
          f.   Represent greater innovation in site design and plant use.
     3.   Alternative Plan Approval. Final approval shall be as granted by the director upon completion of
          an internal or external review to assure satisfaction of the above criteria.
C.   Plan Approval and Distribution. Copies of the professionally certified landscape plan package shall be
     provided for distribution to the following:
          a.   One copy to the property owner or site manager;
          b.   Two copies to the chief building official for attachment to approved building plans and use in
               completion of site inspections;
          c.   One copy to the director for retention in the site development application file.
D.   Plan Revisions. Any revisions to the landscape plan package shall be reviewed and approved in writing
     by the director prior to commencement of construction. Re-certification of compliance with the
     requirements of this chapter shall be provided by the qualified professionals who prepared and
     submitted the plan revisions. Site development plans that are substantially revised may require
     commensurate revisions to associated landscape plans.
E.   Phasing. Landscape plans for projects proposed for development in multiple phases shall clearly
     specify the landscape improvements required in conjunction with each phase.




19.77.120 - Installation of landscape improvements.                                                                   Commented [CW75]: Again, not really sure why this level
                                                                                                                      of detail is necessary.
A.   Irrigation System Installation.
     1.   Installer Qualifications. Irrigation Association (IA) certification shall be required for all contractor-
          installed landscape irrigation systems except where construction observation services are
          provided by a licensed landscape architect or other qualified professional under Title 58 of Utah
          Code.
     2.   License, Insurance and Bonding Requirements. All installers, designers, and auditors shall meet
          state and local license, insurance, and bonding requirements and be able to show proof of such.
B.   Plant Delivery and Installation.
     1.   Plants shall be protected during delivery to prevent leaf desiccation.
     2.   Upon delivery, unplanted trees, shrubs and other live plants shall be kept in shade, well protected
          with soil, mulch or other acceptable material and appropriately watered. Plants that have died or
          show signs of serious deterioration prior to planting shall be replaced.
     3.   All trees and shrubs shall be planted in such a manner as to ensure their survival. This shall
          include the planting of intact balls, planting at proper depth, properly backfilling, mulching and
          watering, and construction of a planting saucer. Newly planted trees shall be provided a plant-
          free mulched area with a minimum radius of four feet around the trunks in order to expedite tree
          root establishment.



                                                                                                        Page 245
     4.   Any rope or wire binding the ball shall be cut prior to the conclusion of backfilling operations to
          prevent girdling of the tree trunk.
     5.   If a nonbiodegradable material is used around the ball, it shall be completely removed prior to
          backfilling.
     6.   In order to protect plantings from traffic, de-icing salts, and snow plowing operations, landscaped
          areas with tree or shrub plantings within six feet of a paved vehicle parking area or access way
          shall be raised above such areas by use of curbing or edging or, where depressed for stormwater
          collection and aquifer recharge, clearly posted for protection during periods of inclement weather.
C.    Excavation. Site excavation shall be accomplished in accordance with industry standards and
     applicable ordinance requirements.




19.77.130 - Construction inspection and compliance requirements.

A.   Construction Observation and Certification of Compliance. Construction observation and monitoring
     of all required landscape improvements shall be provided by a licensed landscape architect so as to
     ensure compliance with the approved landscape plans for the site.
B.   Right to Inspect. The director reserves the right to perform site inspections at any time and to require
     corrective measures regarding the installation of site landscaping and irrigation system improvements
     found not to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
C.   The director shall field-verify landscaping improvements prior to final project approval.




19.77.140 - Post-construction verification of compliance.                                                          Commented [CW76]: This puts the responsibility partially
                                                                                                                   on the shoulders of the applicant to inspect and verify
A.    Single-Phase Projects. Following construction and prior to issuing an approval for occupancy a               compliance.
     landscape architect or other qualified professional shall complete a site inspection of all installed site
     landscaping improvements and provide written certification of compliance with approved plans. The
     director shall field-verify landscaping improvements prior to final project approval. Certification of
     compliance with approved irrigation plans shall be provided by the licensed professional under whose
     construction observation the irrigation system was installed.
B.   Multi-Phase Projects. Projects approved for development in multiple phases shall be inspected and
     certified to be in compliance with the approved plans for each respective phase prior to the occupancy
     or use of the development associated with that phase. Permits shall not be issued for subsequent
     phases without prior director approval until this requirement has been satisfied.




19.77.150 - Certificate of substantial completion.

      Upon completion of all required landscaping improvements the property owner shall complete a
certificate of substantial completion for submittal to the director. A disclosure document shall be filed with
the county recorder's office clearly indicating that the property is subject to the requirements of this chapter
and that any re-landscaping by the present or future property owners shall be in accordance with the
certified landscape plan for the property. Proof of recordation shall be provided prior to final land use
approval.




                                                                                                      Page 246
19.77.160 - Long-term viability of established landscapes.

A.   Plant Maintenance. The owner, tenant and any agent shall be jointly and severally responsible for the
     maintenance of all landscaping in good condition and free from refuse and debris so as to present a
     healthy, neat and orderly appearance. Where applicable an adequately funded Homeowner's or
     Property Owner's Association shall assume and be held liable for such responsibilities. In the latter
     instance, provisions for long-term maintenance of required landscaping in the event of dissolution of
     the Homeowner's or Property Owner's Association shall be provided prior to landscape plan
     acceptance.
B.   Plant Survival. All plant materials shall be regularly maintained in a healthy condition and shall be
     guaranteed for survival for two years from planting. During this period, each plant shall show at least
     seventy-five percent healthy growth and shall have the natural characteristic of the plant of its species.
     Any plant found dead or unsatisfactory by the director during the guarantee period shall be replaced
     until it has lived through the required two-year survival period.




19.77.170 - Completion of and submittal of water performance audit.                                                   Commented [CW77]: This is to confirm compliance with
                                                                                                                      the maximum water usage provisions of 19.77.030.
      Following construction and prior to issuing an approval for occupancy, a water audit shall be conducted
by an IA certified landscape irrigation auditor. Irrigation system improvements required to achieve
compliance with the requirements of this chapter shall be provided by the property owner as necessary.
The water performance audit will verify that the irrigation system complies with the minimum standards of
this chapter. The minimum efficiency required for the irrigation system is sixty percent for the distribution
efficiency for all fixed spray systems and seventy percent distribution efficiency for all rotor systems. Copies
of the auditor's certification of compliance shall be provided to the director for retention in the project file as
well as to the irrigation system designer, installer, and owner/developer of the property. Compliance with
this provision is required before the countymetro township will issue a letter of final acceptance.




19.77.180 - Definitions.

     For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings herein prescribed:
     "Annual water budget" means the target maximum amount of irrigation water applied to a landscaped
area measured in gallons per square foot per year.
     "Automatic controller" means a timer, capable of operating valve stations to set the days and length of
time of a water application.
     "Backflow" means any unwanted flow of used or nonpotable water or substance from any domestic,
industrial or institutional piping system into the pure, potable water distribution system. The direction of flow
under these conditions is in the reverse direction from that intended by the system and normally assumed
by the owner of the system.
      "Backflow prevention device" means a safety device that prevents the flow of water from the water
distribution system back to the water source. Compliance with applicable health and water quality
regulations is required.
    "Bubbler" means an irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by "flooding" the planted area,
usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or short stream pattern.
   "Drip emitter" means a drip irrigation fitting that delivers water slowly at the root zone of the plant,
measured in gallons per hour.




                                                                                                        Page 247
    "Drought-tolerant plant" means a plant that can survive without irrigation throughout the year once
established, although supplemental water may be desirable during drought periods for improved
appearance and disease resistance.
     "Establishment period" means the first three hundred sixty-five days of growing season after installing
the plant in the landscape.
       "Evaporation [E]" means water movement from a wet soil or plant surface that does not pass through
the plant. Evaporation is the physical process by which a liquid is transformed to the gaseous state, which
in irrigation generally is restricted to the change of water from liquid to vapor. Occurs from plant leaf surface,
ground surface, water surface and sprinkler spray.
     "Evapotranspiration [ET]" means the quantity of water evaporated from adjacent soil surfaces and
transpired by plants during a specific time, expressed in inches per day, month or year.
     "FPS" means feet per second.
     "Flow rate" means the rate at which water flows through pipes and valves (gallons per minute or cubic
feet per second).
    "Grading plan" means a plan that shows all finish grades, spot elevations as necessary and existing
and new contours with the developed landscaped area.
     "Groundcover" means material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over the ground
that can be maintained at a height not more than twelve inches.
     "Hardscape" means elements of the landscape such as sidewalks, pathways, benches, patios, decks,
seating areas, drives, and areas for vehicular parking typically constructed from nonliving materials like
concrete, boulders, brick, blacktop and lumber.
     "Hydrozone" means the grouping of plants with similar water requirements so that they can be irrigated
with a common zone.
     "Infiltration rate" means the rate of water entry into the soil expressed as a depth of water per unit of
time (inches per hour).
      "Irrigated landscaped area" means all portions of a development site to be improved with planting and
irrigation. Natural open space areas shall not be included in the irrigated landscaped area.
      "Irrigation contractor" means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association (IA) to install
irrigation systems.
    "Irrigation designer" means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association (IA) to
prepare irrigation system designs, and/or a landscape architect.
     "Irrigation plan" means a plan that shows the components of the irrigation system with water meter
size, backflow prevention, precipitation rates, flow rate and operating pressure for each irrigation circuit,
together with identification of all irrigation equipment.
     "Landscape architect" means a person who is licensed to practice landscape architecture by the state
of Utah.
    "Landscape designer" means a person who has been certified by the Utah Nursery and Landscape
Association (UNLA) and who prepares landscape plans as authorized by Utah Code.
    "Landscape irrigation auditor" means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association to
conduct a landscape irrigation audit.
      "Landscape plan documentation package" means an assemblage of graphics and written materials
including criteria, specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the effects of natural features
such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks and other features to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. The landscape plan documentation package shall include a project data sheet,
a planting plan, an irrigation plan, a grading plan, a soils report, a landscape water allowance, and an
irrigation schedule.



                                                                                                        Page 248
     "Landscape water allowance" means, for design purposes, the upper limit of annual applied water for
the established landscaped area. It is based upon the local reference evapotranspiration rate, the ET0
adjustment factor and the size of the landscaped area.
     "Landscape zone" means a portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water needs,
areas with similar microclimate (i.e., slope, exposure, wind, etc.) and soil conditions, and areas that will be
similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can be served by one irrigation valve, or a set of valves with the same
schedule.
     "Landscaped area" means an entire parcel of real property minus that area encompassed by building
footprints, driveways, and the nonirrigated portions of parking lots. Water features and areas improved with
walkways, benches, seating areas and similar improvements are included in the calculation of the
landscaped area.
      "Landscaping" means any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground covers,
flowers, or grass; natural features such as rock, stone, or bark chips; and structural features, including but
not limited to, walks, drives, benches, seating areas, fountains, reflecting pools, outdoor art work, screen
walls and fences.
    "Maximum extent feasible" means no prudent, practical, and feasible alternative exists, and all possible
planning to minimize potential harm has been undertaken. Economic considerations may be taken into
account but shall not be the overriding factor in determining maximum extent feasible.
    "Mulch" means any organic material such as leaves, bark, wood chips, straw, or inorganic material
such as crushed stone or gravel, or other materials left loose and applied to the soil surface for the beneficial
purpose of weed suppression and the conservation of soil moisture.
     "Pervious surface" means a layer through which water and air may freely migrate.
     "Planting plan" means a plan that clearly and accurately identifies the location and species of new and
existing trees, shrubs, groundcovers, and other plants on a site.
     "Precipitation rate" means the depth of water applied to a given area, usually measured in inches per
hour.
     "Rain shut-off device" means a device wired to the automatic controller that shuts off the irrigation
system when it rains.
     "Reference evapotranspiration rate or ET0" means the rate of evapotranspiration from an extensive
surface cooling season green grass cover of uniform height of twelve cm., actively growing, completely
shading the ground, and not short of water.
    "Runoff" means irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which it is applied
and which flows onto other areas.
       "Soils report" means a report by a soils laboratory indicating soil type(s), composition, bulk density,
infiltration rates, pH, electroconductivity (ERC), salt absorption ratio (SAR) and organic matter for the top
soil and subsoil of a given site. The soils report also includes recommendations for soil amendments.
     "Spray sprinkler" means an irrigation head that sprays water through a nozzle.
     "Station" means an area served by one valve.
     "Stream sprinkler" means an irrigation head that projects water through a gear rotor in single or multiple
streams.
     "Street tree" means a shade or ornamental tree planted along public or private streets and drives to
provide shade to reduce heating of pavements, provide spatial definition and visual enhancement.
     "Supervision (of an employee)" means that a qualified licensed professional is responsible for and
personally reviews, corrects when necessary, and approves work performed by any employee under the
direction of the licensed professional.
     "Turf" means a surface layer of earth containing mowed grass with its roots.



                                                                                                       Page 249
    "Valve" means a device used to control the flow of water in an irrigation system.
      "Water audit" means an on-site survey and measurement of irrigation equipment and management
efficiency, and the generation of recommendations to improve efficiency.
    "Water-conserving plant" means a plant that can generally survive with available rainfall once
established although supplemental irrigation may be needed or desirable during spring and summer
months.
    "Zone" means a landscape zone.




                                                                                         Page 250
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.


CHAPTER 19.50                    LANDSCAPING & SCREENING
19.50.010   PURPOSE
19.50.020   SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY
19.50.030   LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION STANDARDS
19.50.040   LANDSCAPE DESIGN STANDARDS
19.50.050   LANDSCAPE PLAN
19.50.060   LANDSCAPE SETBACKS AND BUFFERS
19.50.070   LANDSCAPING OF PARKSTRIPS
19.50.080   PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING
19.50.090   SCREENING REQUIREMENTS
19.05.100   LANDSCAPPING OF DRIVE-THROUGH AND DROP-OFF FACILITIES
19.50.110   LANDSCAPING OF STORMWATER FACILITIES
19.50.120   CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION
19.50.130   POST-CONSTRUCTION VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE
19.50.140   CERTIFICATE OF SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION
19.50.150   ENFORCEMENT OF LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS

19.05.010 PURPOSE

       The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the aesthetic, functional and
       environmental enhancement of Salt Lake County through the application of landscape standards
       for new development, additions, and renovations. The landscape design and development
       standards set forth in this chapter are intended to promote the following:

       A. More efficient use of water resources for landscape irrigation purposes;

       B. Establishment of good qualitative standards for the design of landscape improvements;

       C. Enhancement of land use compatibility and promotion of design continuity between adjacent
          land uses;

       D. Reduction of energy consumption through prudent placement of plant materials;

       E. Improved management of stormwater runoff;

       F. Reduction in absorption and re-generation of heat from paved vehicular parking areas and
          other impervious surfaces;

       G. Separation of vehicular and pedestrian circulation within on-site vehicular circulation and
          parking areas;

       H. Spatial and visual separation of parked vehicles from public view and adjacent vehicular
          travel ways;

       I.   Reduction of vehicular headlight glare and intrusive artificial light onto area residences;

       J. Reduction of development-related environmental impacts through improved management of
          erosion, noise, dust, air pollution and glare;

       K. Increased use of native and low water use plant species into the developed environment; and

       L. Reduction of landscape maintenance responsibilities and costs.
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.

19.50.020       SCOPE AND APPLICABILITY

       The applicability of these regulations to new and existing development is described below:

       A. New Development. All new development shall be subject to these regulations.

       B. Building Additions. Building additions involving a 20% or greater increase in building
          coverage shall trigger full compliance with these regulations for the entire property. The
          Director may grant relief from full compliance to these regulations, based on the factors cited
          in subsection E below.

       C. Building Renovations. Building renovations, whether involving interior or exterior work,
          shall not trigger compliance with these regulations. However, if such work involves the
          removal of existing plant material, new plant material shall be installed that creates
          comparable landscape design value within a five-year period.

       D. Parking Expansion. The expansion of parking facilities involving a 30% or greater
          expansion in the number of parking spaces shall trigger full compliance with these regulations
          for the entire parking area. Repeated expansions of parking facilities over a period of time
          shall be combined in determining whether the 30% threshold has been reached. The
          Director may grant relief from full compliance to these regulations, based on the factors cited
          in subsection E below.

       E. Modifications.

            1. In instances where full compliance with a provision in this chapter results in particular
               hardships that make full compliance impractical, the Director may approve modifications
               to that provision, based on an analysis of the following factors:

                a. Existing site constraints, such as setbacks of existing buildings and parking areas,
                   topography, streams, or other physical features of the property prevent full
                   compliance with these regulations.

                b. The preservation of existing trees or existing vegetation (particularly in ecologically or
                   geologically sensitive lands) is determined to be of greater importance in the
                   furtherance of planning goals than the installation of new landscape improvements.

                c. A significant degree of compliance with the provisions of this chapter can be
                   accomplished, which is roughly proportional to the impact of the proposed
                   improvements to the site, and the purpose and intent of this chapter is fulfilled.

            2. The Director may approve modifications to the provisions of this chapter if a design is
               proposed that is incorporated into the overall site and building design, which takes into
               account the proposed land use and which demonstrates innovation in low-water usage
               and the use of native and/or drought tolerant plants.

       F. Historic Properties. Properties listed on either the state or national historic registers may be
          exempt from these regulations, subject to review by the Director.

       G. Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone. Properties located within the Foothills and Canyons
          Overlay Zone are exempt from the standards of this chapter. Refer to Chapter 19.72 for
          landscaping requirements in this zone.
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.
19.50.030       LANDSCAPE IRRIGATION STANDARDS

       The following landscape irrigation standards shall apply to all uses, except single-family and two-
       family residential properties, which shall be exempt.

       A. Irrigation Plan. An irrigation plan prepared by a licensed irrigation professional shall
          accompany all submissions for landscape plan approval. At a minimum, the irrigation plan
          shall indicate: a) the locations and square-foot area of the various irrigation zones or hydro-
          zones on the site; b) the type of irrigation device to be used in each irrigation zone, including
          manufacturer and model number; c) the location of each irrigation device and its area of
          coverage; and d) a chart depicting the annual water usage within each irrigation zone
          (Hydrozone) and the site as a whole (see subsection D below). The irrigation system shall be
          designed to maximize water efficiency by applying only the amount of water needed to
          sustain the plants in each irrigation zone.

       B. Drip Irrigation. Drip irrigation shall be required for all non-turf landscape areas.

       C. Drought Tolerant Plants. Native and other drought-tolerant plant materials shall be used on
          at least 50% of the non-turf portion of the landscape area.

       D. Promotion of maximum water efficiency. So as to assure more efficient water
          consumption in the establishment and long-term maintenance of site landscape
          improvements, an annual landscape water allowance shall be established and maintained for
          each property improved as set forth in this chapter. Acceptable water efficiency is achieved
          when the approved landscape plan indicates a landscape water allowance of no more than
          fifteen (15) gallons per square foot average for the entire landscaped area of the site per
          year.

            The landscape water allowance shall be calculated using the following equation:

                Landscape Water Allowance (in gallons per year) = ET × PF × 0.62 × A

            ET = Reference evapotranspiration in inches per year. The ET for Salt Lake County is 31.17
                inches per year
            PF =Plant Factor Value. This is variable based on plant water usage characteristics. (1.0 =
                turf grass)
            0.62 = Conversion factor (to gallons per square feet). Converting this figure so that a
                landscape water allowance can be expressed in gallons per year requires the use of the
                conversion factor to obtain an equivalent amount in gallons per square feet (19.33).
            A = Total irrigated landscape area in square feet.


19.50.040       LANDSCAPE DESIGN STANDARDS

       A. Landscape Construction Methods and Practices

            Best industry practices shall be observed during construction to ensure that the approved
            landscape plan is fully implemented. It is recommended that the standards of the American
            Nursery and Landscape Association be observed as it relates to the selection, handling,
            planting and maintenance of plant material used to implement the landscape plan.

       B. Design Objectives

            Because the purpose of landscape improvements includes the improvement of community
            aesthetics and compatibility between adjacent land uses, the following design objectives shall
            be observed in the design of landscape plans. Plant material will be designed to:
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.

           1. Reduce the perception of building mass through screening and buffering;

           2. Separate and buffer adjacent uses, particularly when the adjacent uses are dissimilar;

           3. Soften the appearance of walls and fences; and

           4. Screen or soften large expanses of parking from public view.

       C. Energy Conservation

           Plant material placement should be designed to reduce the energy consumption needs of the
           development. In addition, landscaping designs shall take into account and make an effort to
           implement LEED policy and design standards, where appropriate.

           1. Deciduous trees should be placed on the south and west sides of buildings to provide
              shade from the summer sun.

           2. Evergreens and other plant materials should be concentrated on the north and west sides
              of buildings to dissipate the effect of winter winds.

       D. Tree Preservation, Removal and Replacement. The following regulations shall apply to
          the preservation, removal and replacement of trees:

           1. Preservation of Existing Trees. Existing trees shall be preserved to the greatest extent
              possible and practical. Existing, living trees 4” or more in caliper shall be subject to the
              replacement provisions below.

           2. Replacement of Existing Trees. Existing trees removed as a result of development or
              construction shall be replaced at a rate of one new tree for every two caliper inches of
              tree removal based on the cumulative total of trees removed. Trees identified for
              preservation on the landscape plan, but which die as a result of construction, shall be
              considered trees removed and shall be replaced.

           3. Maximum Replacement. On development sites with significant existing tree cover, the
              replacement of removed trees may be impractical at the rates cited above. Therefore, the
              rate of required tree replacement is further limited by the regulations set forth below.


               a. For Residential and Open Space Uses

                   The installation of new and replacement trees shall be required up to the point where
                   the average for the entire site reaches 20 total trees per acre of landscape area
                   (includes existing 4” caliper and larger trees and new trees).

               b. For Non-Residential Uses

                   The installation of new and replacement trees shall be required up to the point where
                   the average for the entire site reaches 10 total trees per acre of landscape area
                   (includes existing 4” caliper and larger trees and new trees).

       E. Tree Species Diversity

           Best practices in healthy urban forestry call for species diversity in the planting of new trees.
           Accordingly, landscape plans shall be designed to meet the following tree species diversity
           requirements:
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.

              Total Number of Trees on Site                 Maximum Percent of One Species
                        10 - 19                                          50%
                        20 – 49                                          40%
                        50 or more                                       30%

       F. Tree Species

           The following trees are recommended, or prohibited, for the purposes noted. Other species
           of trees may be used, subject to County Public Works review and approval.


           1. Trees Recommended for Parkstrips
              a.   Paperbark Maple – Acer Griseum
              b.   Tatarian Maple, single stemmed – Acer tatrium
              c.   Netleaf Hackberry – Celtis reticulate
              d.   Thornless Cockspur Hawthorn – Crataegus crus-galli var. inermis
              e.   La Valle Hawthorn – Crataegus x lavallei ‘Carrier’
              f.   Amur Maakia – Maackia amurensis
              g.   Fruitless Crabapple – Malus, ioensis ‘Klem’s Improved’ or ‘Spring Snow’, etc.
              h.   Eastern redbud – Cercis Canadensis
              i.   Blackhaw Viburnum – Viburnum prunifolium

           2. Trees Prohibited for Parkstrips
              Any tree or shrub that could conflict with the safe use of the right-of-way is prohibited in
              the parkstrip. Some of these trees include:
              a.   Box Elder – Acer negundo
              b.   Silver Maple – Acer saccharinum
              c.   Tree of Heaven – Ailantus altissima
              d.   River Birch – Betula nigra
              e    Russian Olive – Eleagnus angustifolia
              f.   Poplar (includes Cottonwood) – Populus spp.
              g.   Quaking Aspen – Populus tremuloides
              h.   Flowering Plum – Prunus cerasifera
              i.   Pin Oak – Quercus palustris
              j.   Idaho Locust – Robina x ambigua ‘Idahoensis’
              k.   Willow – Salix spp.
              l.       Siberian Elm – Ulmus pumila

           3. Trees Appropriate for use Under Powerlines
              a. Netleaf Hackberry – Celtis reticulate
              b.   Marshall’s Seedless Ash – Fraxinum pennsylvatica lanceolata ‘Marshall Seedless’
              c.   Thornless Honeylocust – Gleditsia tricanthos var. inermis ‘Imperial’
              d.   Goldenrain Tree – Koelreuteria paniculata
              e.   Crabapple spp – Malus ioensis‘Spring Snow,’ ‘Snow Drift,’ ‘Centurion,’ and ‘Zumi’
              f.   Callery Pear – Pyrus calleriana ‘Aristocrat,’ Chanticleer’,’ and ‘Redspire’
              g.   Japanese Pagodatree – Sophora japonica ‘Regent’

       G. Plant Sizes
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.

            The minimum size of plant material used to implement an approved landscape plan shall
            conform to the following:

            1. Shade Trees – 2 inch caliper
            2. Ornamental Trees – either 1 and 1/2 inches in caliper or 6 feet in height
            3. Evergreen Trees – 6 feet in height
            4. Spreading Shrubs – 18 inches of spread at the time of planting and grown in a 5 gallon
               container
            5. Upright Shrubs – 24 inches in height at the time of planting and grown in a 5 gallon
               container
            6. Herbaceous Plants – 1 gallon container


       H. Mulch and Gravel

            Mulch, whether organic mulch or gravel, shall be used as part of the planting process to
            retain water, reduce evaporation and reduce the growth of weeds. Mulch shall also delineate
            planting beds from turf areas. Organic or gravel mulch shall be applied over planting beds to
            a minimum depth of 2 inches and maintained at this depth. Mulch cover shall extend over the
            planting area at least 3 feet, but not more than 5 feet, from the trunks of trees or the branches
            of shrubs. Organic mulch shall be bark mulch or other organic landscape mulch commonly
            used in the industry. Gravel mulch shall be ornamental landscape gravel of fine aggregate,
            not exceeding 1/2 of an inch. White and black gravel is prohibited. Mulch made of recycled
            materials may be accepted upon the Director’s review and approval.

       I.   Coverage Requirement

            Areas of a site not covered with buildings or pavement shall be considered landscape area.
            Landscape areas shall be covered with trees, shrubs, groundcover, flowers/herbaceous
            plants, mulch or turf in compliance with the standards set forth in sections 19.50.060 through
            19.50.120 of this chapter. Areas of bare dirt will not be allowed. Native landscaping may be
            used in appropriate locations, subject to County approval.


19.50.050       LANDSCAPE PLAN

       A. Landscape Plan Content

            A detailed landscape plan conforming to the following specifications shall be submitted to the
            County and shall be approved prior to the issuance of a building permit. The base drawing of
            the landscape plan shall be the approved site plan and shall show the following information:

            1. The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed structures, property lines,
               easements, parking lots and drives, roadways and rights-of-way, pedestrian walkways,
               signs, refuse disposal and recycling areas, bicycle paths and parking facilities, fences,
               electrical equipment, recreational facilities, drainage facilities, and other freestanding
               structures, as determined necessary by the Director.

            2. The location, quantity, size, name, and condition, both botanical and common, of all
               existing plant materials, including trees and other material on-site or in the right-of-way,
               together with the plant material to be retained and removed.
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.
            3. The location, quantity, size, and name, both botanical and common, of all proposed plant
               material, including, but not limited to, shade and evergreen trees, shrubs, groundcover,
               annuals/perennials and turf.

            4. The grading of the site, which is consistent with the final approved grading plans,
               indicating contours at one (1) foot intervals. Proposed berming shall be indicated using
               one (1) foot contour intervals.

            5. Elevations of all proposed fences, steps, stairs, retaining walls, and any natural rock
               outcroppings on the site.

            6. Elevations, cross-sections, and other details, as determined necessary by the Director.

            7. Plant Establishment and Arrangement on the Basis of Water Consumption.
               Establishment and arrangement of plants on a site according to the water needs of those
               plants is commonly referred to as hydrozone management. Hydrozone management is
               required by this chapter and shall be implemented through the use of the following:
               a.       Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped together as much as possible in
               accordance with the hydrozones indicated on the irrigation plans.

       B. Other Requirements of the Landscape Plan

            1. For all uses other than single-family, two-family, four-family, and agricultural, the
               landscape plan shall be prepared by a landscape architect registered in the State of Utah
               or a landscape designer certified by the Utah Nursery and Landscape Association.

            2. All landscape plans shall be accompanied by an irrigation plan. All submitted irrigation
               plans shall be prepared by a qualified professional who is licensed under Utah Code Title
               58 or by a person who is exempt from professional licensure requirements for the scope
               of work performed.

            3. Areas landscaped with high water use plants shall be, whenever possible, separated
               from those with low and very low water use by moderate water use landscape zones.

       C. Minor Changes to Approved Landscape Plans

            The Director may approve minor changes to the landscape plan, which conform to these
            regulations and do not result in a reduction in the net amount of plant material, as specified
            on the approved landscape plan. Changes to the size and amount of plant materials of an
            approved landscape plan shall not be considered a minor change.

       D. Landscape Plan Approval

            The Director shall approve landscape plans upon completion of an internal or external review
            of submitted plans and documents to assure ordinance compliance.


19.50.060       LANDSCAPE SETBACKS AND BUFFERS

       A. Frontage Landscape Setbacks

            Frontage landscape setbacks shall be established to provide landscape enhancement along
            public and private streets. Requirements for frontage landscape setbacks are described
            below.
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.
           1. Single-Family, Two-Family, Four-Family, and Agricultural Uses

              a. Area Required. The front yard area and street-facing side yard shall be maintained
                 as a landscape setback, except that driveways and pedestrian walkways are
                 permitted.

              b. Required Landscaping. The front yard area shall be maintained in an orderly
                 manner with landscaping comprised of turf, shrubs, flowers/herbaceous plants, trees
                 or any combination thereof. Specific requirements shall consist of:

                  i.   Areas of bare ground, mulch or gravel may not be used as a substitute for
                       turf.

                  ii. Mulch/gravel areas shall not extend more than five (5) feet from the
                      branching of shrubs or trunks of trees.

                  iii. At least one tree, either shade or ornamental, shall be planted for every 25
                       feet of yard frontage, rounded to the nearest whole number.

                  iv. At least 50% of the linear foot length of the front building wall shall be
                      planted with either shrubs or flowers/herbaceous plants.

              c. Maximum Area of Turf. The area of domestic turf on any property shall not exceed
                 80% of the total landscape area.


           2. MF Multiple-Family Uses.

              a. Area Required. A landscape setback 20 feet in depth shall be maintained along the
                 property frontage, except that driveways and pedestrian walkways are permitted.

              b. Required Landscaping. The landscape setback area shall be maintained in an
                 orderly manner with landscaping comprised of turf, shrubs, flowers/herbaceous
                 plants, trees or any combination thereof. Specific requirements shall consist of:

                  i.   Areas of bare ground, mulch or gravel may not be used as a substitute for
                       turf.

                  ii. Mulch/gravel areas shall not extend more than five feet from the branching
                      of shrubs or trunks of trees.

                  iii. At least one tree, either shade or ornamental, shall be planted for every 25
                       feet of frontage, rounded to the nearest whole number.

                  iv. At least one shrub shall be planted for every 40 square feet of landscape
                      area within the landscape setback. Three herbaceous plants with a mature
                      height of 30 inches or more may be substituted for one shrub.

              c. Maximum Area of Turf. The area of domestic turf on any property shall not
                 exceed 80% of the total landscape area.

           3. Commercial, Office, and Public Uses.

              a. Area Required. If a front yard is provided, a landscape area a minimum of ten (10)
                 feet in depth shall be maintained along the frontage, except that driveways and
                 pedestrian walkways are permitted.
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.

              b. Patio Seating. Up to 50% of the required landscape area for restaurants can be
                 patio seating.

              c. Required Landscaping. The landscape setback area shall be maintained in an
                 orderly manner with landscaping comprised of turf, shrubs, flowers/herbaceous
                 plants, trees or any combination thereof. Specific requirements shall consist of:

                  i.   Areas of bare ground, mulch or gravel may not be used as a substitute for
                       turf.

                  ii. Mulch/gravel areas shall not extend more than five feet from the branching
                      of shrubs or trunks of trees.

                  iii. At least one tree, either shade or ornamental, shall be planted for every 25
                       feet of frontage, rounded to the nearest whole number.

                  iv. At least one shrub shall be planted for every 25 square feet of landscape
                      area within the landscape setback. Three herbaceous plants with a mature
                      height of 30 inches or more may be substituted for one shrub.

                  v. If a patio area is established, planter boxes or other landscaping types
                     shall be included to visually soften the hard surface of the patio area.

              d. Maximum Area of Turf. The area of domestic turf on any property shall not
                 exceed 50% of the total landscape area.

           4. Industrial Uses.

              a. Area Required. The required front yard area shall be maintained as a landscape
                 setback, except that driveways and pedestrian walkways are permitted.

              b. Required Landscaping. The landscape setback area shall be maintained in an
                 orderly manner with landscaping comprised of turf, shrubs, flowers/herbaceous
                 plants, trees or any combination thereof. Specific requirements shall consist of:

                  i.   Areas of bare ground, mulch or gravel may not be used as a substitute for
                       turf.

                  ii. Mulch/gravel areas shall not extend more than five feet from the branching
                      of shrubs or trunks of trees.

                  iii. At least one tree, either shade or ornamental, shall be planted for every 25
                       feet of frontage, rounded to the nearest whole number.

                  iv. At least one shrub shall be planted for every 80 square feet of landscape
                      area within the landscape setback. Three herbaceous plants with a mature
                      height of 30 inches or more may be substituted for one shrub.

              c. Maximum Area of Turf. The area of domestic turf on any property shall not
                 exceed 50% of the total landscape area.

           5. Open Space Uses, such as parks, golf courses, sports fields, and cemeteries.

              a. Area Required. The required front yard area shall be maintained as a landscape
                 setback, except that driveways and pedestrian walkways are permitted.
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.

               b. Required Landscaping. The landscape setback area shall be maintained in
                  an orderly manner with landscaping comprised of turf, shrubs,
                  flowers/herbaceous plants, trees or any combination thereof.

       B. Landscape Buffers

           Wherever a non-residential use abuts a residential or open space use, the following
           provisions shall apply:

           1. Landscape Area. A landscape area equal to 10% of the lot width of the non-residential
              use shall be provided, except that the landscape area shall be at least 5 feet in width and
              need not exceed 20 feet in width.

           2. Required Landscaping. The landscape setback area shall be maintained in an orderly
              manner with landscaping comprised of turf, shrubs, flowers/herbaceous plants, trees or
              any combination thereof. Specific requirements shall consist of:

               a. Areas of bare ground, mulch or gravel may not be used as a substitute for turf.

               b. Mulch/gravel areas shall not extend more than five feet from the branching of
                  shrubs or trunks of trees.

               c. At least one tree, either shade or evergreen tree, shall be planted for every 20
                  feet of length of the buffer, rounded to the nearest whole number.

               d. At least one upright shrub shall be planted for every 30 square feet of
                  landscape area.

       C. Building Foundation Landscaping

           1. If a multi-family residential, mixed-use or non-residential development maintains a front or
              corner side yard of ten (10) feet or more, building foundation landscaping is required,
              except that the landscaping requirements for sides of retail buildings facing accessory
              parking lots may be reduced or eliminated to accommodate pedestrian access.

           2. Foundation plantings shall work in concert with buffer yard plantings to frame important
              views, while visually softening long expanses of walls, particularly those that lack
              windows or other architectural details. Foundation plantings shall respond to the
              materials and the form of a building.

           3. Foundation plantings shall be installed across sixty percent (60%) of the length of the
              façade of the building.

           4. Foundation plantings may consist of a mix of trees, shrubs and herbaceous plants.

           5. To deter crime, foundation plantings shall not block or hide building entrances or
              windows.



FIGURE 19.50-1: LANDSCAPING ILLUSTRATION
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.




19.59.070       LANDSCAPING OF PARKSTRIPS

       A. Purpose

            The intent of this section is to establish clear and definitive landscaping standards for
            parkstrips that provide for both aesthetically pleasing and practical landscape improvements.

       B. Landscaping Responsibility

            Although parkstrips are part of the public right-of-way, it is the responsibility of the
            immediately adjacent property owner to provide for basic maintenance of the parkstrips
            fronting the property. This responsibility includes the establishment and maintenance of
            landscaping that conforms to these regulations.

       C. Applicability

            All new development shall provide parkstrip landscaping in conformance with these
            regulations. Existing development is not required to provide parkstrip landscaping, except
            where the provisions of section 19.50.020 apply. However, any parkstrip landscaping done in
            conjunction with existing development shall conform to these regulations.

       D. Landscape Plans

            For all new development, parkstrips shall be shown on all landscape plans submitted for
            approval.
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.
       E. Plant Material

            The type of plant material used in parkstrip landscaping shall be at the discretion of the
            adjacent property owner, subject to these regulations. The use of drought tolerant plant
            material is encouraged.

       F. Tree Planting

            One shade tree shall be planted in the parkstrip area for every 25 linear feet of lot frontage,
            rounded to the nearest whole number. All trees shall be planted in the center of the width of
            the parkstrip.

       G. Groundcover

            Not less than 50 percent of the ground area of the parkstrip shall be covered by plant
            material. Plant material shall be either turf, evergreen or deciduous groundcover,
            herbaceous plants, or shrubs that do not exceed a mature height of 18 inches. No plant
            material shall create a view obstruction. Up to 50 percent of the ground area of the parkstrip
            may be covered with mulch or gravel.

       H. Pavement in Parkstrips

            Subject to the approval of Salt Lake County Department of Public Works, pavement may be
            allowed in parkstrips of less than five (5) feet in width. A paved carriageway less than five (5)
            feet in width may be allowed in any parkstrip. Pavement shall consist of decorative stamped
            concrete, removable brick, or paving stones. Paving in parkstrips with a width of five (5) feet
            or greater is only allowed when the maintenance of landscaping is impractical due to site
            topography, lack of direct access, traffic patterns, or other such factors.

       I.   Irrigation

            It is the responsibility of the adjacent property owner to provide adequate watering to ensure
            the health and survival of parkstrip landscaping. If the adjacent property is irrigated, the
            irrigation system shall be extended to include the parkstrip. The parkstrip shall be watered at
            regular intervals, consistent with good landscaping practices.


19.50.080       PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING

       A. Frontage Landscaping

            The landscaping of parking lots along public and private streets shall be accomplished
            through the provisions within section 19.50.060.

       B. Side Landscaping

            The landscaping of parking lots parallel to side lot lines shall conform to the following:

            1. Landscape Area

                A landscape area at least 5 feet in width, exclusive of car overhang, shall be provided.

            2. Required Landscaping

                a. At least one tree, either shade, ornamental or evergreen, shall be planted for
                   every 25 feet of length, rounded to the nearest whole number.
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.

               b. At least one upright shrub shall be planted for every 6 feet of length.

               c. Additional herbaceous plantings are encouraged.

               d. The remainder of the landscape areas may be covered in mulch, gravel, or turf.

       C. Interior Parking Lot Landscaping

           For parking lots consisting of twenty (20) or more spaces, interior parking lot landscaping
           shall be required in the form of landscape parking lot islands or medians. Parking lot islands
           and medians are curbed landscape areas within parking lot paving.

           1. Islands

               a. Number of Parking Lot Islands

                   At least one (1) parking lot island shall be provided for every ten (10) parking spaces.
                   As part of the landscape plan approval, parking lot island locations may be varied
                   based on specific site requirements or design scheme. However, all rows of parking
                   spaces shall be terminated by a parking lot island, which may result in more than one
                   island for every ten (10) spaces, depending on the design of the parking lot. Where a
                   row of parking exceeds 20 spaces, a parking lot island shall be located in the middle
                   of the row.

               b. Size of Parking Lot Islands

                   Parking lot islands shall be the same dimension as a standard parking stall, as
                   required in section 19.48.030. Double rows of parking shall provide parking lot
                   islands that are the same dimension as the double row.

           2. Medians

               a. Number of Parking Lot Medians

                   One continuous median per row of head-in parking stalls may be used in place of
                   parking lot islands.

               b. Size of Parking Lot Medians

                   The length of parking lot medians shall be equal to the length of each row of parking
                   stalls when the median abuts a single row of parking stalls or acts as a divider
                   median separating opposing rows of head-in parking stalls. The width of parking lot
                   medians shall be eight (8) feet, with consideration for vehicle overhang, where divider
                   medians occur adjacent to head-in parking stalls, and ten feet, with the same
                   considerations, for divider medians separating opposing rows of head-in parking
                   stalls. Where divider medians are improved with pedestrian walkways, the specified
                   width is exclusive of the width of those walkways.

       D. Interior Parking Lot Design

           1. Design of Parking Lot Islands and Medians

               Parking lot islands, medians, or landscaped areas shall be surrounded with a six-inch
               high concrete curb. In cases where the parking lot island or median is designed
               specifically for the absorption of stormwater, the curb requirements may be modified.
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.
                Such islands, medians, and landscaped areas shall be properly drained and irrigated, as
                appropriate for the site conditions and plant species, to ensure healthy plant growth. The
                use of drought tolerant plant material is encouraged.

            2. Required Trees

                A minimum of one (1) shade tree shall be provided for every parking lot island. If the
                island extends the width of a double row, then two (2) shade trees shall be provided. A
                minimum of one (1) shade tree shall be planted for every 25 feet of length in a parking lot
                median.

            3. Groundcover Plantings

                A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the surface area of each parking lot island or median
                shall be planted in low-growing shrubs, groundcover, perennials, ornamental grasses or
                other herbaceous plants. These plantings shall not reach a mature height of more than
                30 inches, to avoid visibility obstructions.

            4. Mulch

                The entire parking lot island or median shall be mulched to promote plant health and to
                retain water. No turf shall be planted in parking lot islands or medians.

            5. Pedestrian Walkways

                Parking lots shall be designed to provide pedestrian walkways that link the public
                sidewalk along the street with the front door of the building. A landscape area at least 3
                feet in width shall be located along one side of such walkway and shall be planted with
                trees, shrubs and herbaceous plants at the discretion of the applicant.

       E. Wheel Stops

            Where vehicular parking stalls abut interior parking area landscaping that is not situated
            within and protected by a landscape planter, wheel stops shall be installed at a minimum of
            two feet from the edge of that landscape area.


19.50.090       SCREENING REQUIREMENTS

       A.       Refuse Disposal Dumpsters and Refuse Storage Areas

            All refuse containers shall be fully enclosed on three (3) sides by a solid visual barrier
            constructed of a wood, simulated wood, or vinyl screen fence, an opaque masonry wall
            (stone, stucco or brick), a decorative concrete wall, or a principal structure wall six (6) feet in
            height. The remaining side of the enclosure shall be gated and screened in such a manner as
            to reduce the visual impact of the refuse container. The materials used for screening,
            including the enclosure, shall complement the architecture of the principal structure. An
            extension of an exterior principal structure wall may be used as one of the screening walls for
            a refuse container, provided that such wall meets the minimum six (6) foot height requirement
            and is of the same building materials as the principal structure. Such wall may not be the
            gated enclosure.

       B.       Loading Berths
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.
            Where feasible, loading berths shall be located and oriented so as to not be visible from the
            street and adjacent properties, while still allowing access to the use it is serving. In addition,
            loading berths in all zoning districts shall be screened as much as possible, unless the
            Director determines that such screening is unnecessary. Such screening shall consist of an
            opaque masonry wall (stone, stucco or brick), a solid wood or simulated wood screen fence,
            or dense evergreen hedge, at least six (6) feet in height.

       C. Outdoor Storage and Display Areas

            1. Outdoor Storage Areas

                All outdoor storage areas shall be completely screened by an opaque masonry wall
                (stone, stucco or brick) or a solid wood or simulated wood screen fence no less than six
                (6) feet in height. Where feasible, plant materials shall be installed along the fence or wall
                located along the public right-of-way to provide a softening effect. No materials stored
                outdoors shall be of a greater height than the required fence or wall.

            2. Outdoor Sales and Display Areas

                a. When the rear or interior side yard of an outdoor display area abuts a residential
                   zoning district or use, or the rear yard is separated from a residential zoning district or
                   use by an alley, the outdoor display area shall be effectively screened from view by
                   an opaque masonry wall (stone, stucco or brick), a solid wood or simulated wood
                   screen fence or dense evergreen hedge, at least six (6) feet in height.

                b. All outdoor display areas shall be designed with a landscaped yard along the public
                   right-of-way, excluding alleys, a minimum of ten (10) feet in width, planted with shade
                   or evergreen trees at a rate of one (1) tree per twenty-five (25) feet, and
                   supplemented with shrubs and perennials to enhance the view from the public right-
                   of-way. These screening requirements are not intended to prohibit openings
                   reasonably necessary for access drives and walkways.

                c. Motor vehicle dealerships or rental establishments with outdoor sales and display lots
                   shall be designed with permanent screening along the right-of-way, meeting the
                   requirements of subsection (b) above, but such plantings may be clustered. The
                   screening may consist of small shrubs or a low pedestrian wall of no less than three
                   (3) feet in height, rather than shade or evergreen trees, to optimize the view of motor
                   vehicles for sale.

                d. Growing areas for nursery stock located in the front or corner side yard shall meet
                   screening requirements.


19.50.100       LANDSCAPING OF DRIVE-THROUGH AND DROP-OFF FACILITIES

       Landscape areas designed as part of drive-through and drop-off facilities shall be landscaped in
       conformance with the following:

       A. Trees Required

            One tree shall be planted for each 125 square feet or more of landscape area. Landscape
            areas of less than 125 square feet do not require a tree to be planted.

       B. Groundcover Plantings
Note: This is the “simplified” landscaping ordinance developed with a consultant in 2012-2013,
but never adopted.
            A minimum of fifty percent (50%) of the surface area of each landscape area shall be planted
            in low-growing shrubs, groundcover, perennials, ornamental grasses or other herbaceous
            plants. These plantings shall not reach a mature height of more than 30 inches to avoid
            visibility obstructions.

       C. Mulch

            The entire landscape area shall be mulched to promote plant health and retain water. No turf
            shall be planted in these landscape areas.

19.50.110       LANDSCAPING OF STORMWATER FACILITIES

       All detention/retention basins, ponds and other stormwater facilities shall be improved with
       landscaping. Such landscaping may include shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery,
       hedges, turf, groundcover and other plant materials and related landscape improvements.

19.50.120       CONSTRUCTION INSPECTION

       The Director, or his designee, reserves the right to perform site inspections at any time and to
       require corrective measures regarding the installation of site landscaping and irrigation system
       improvements found not to comply with the requirements of this chapter.

19.50.130       POST-CONSTRUCTION VERIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE

       Following construction and prior to issuing approval for a Certificate of Occupancy, the landscape
       architect (or designer) of record shall complete a site inspection of all installed site landscaping
       improvements and provide written certification of compliance with approved plans, or
       alternatively, note conforming changes as “as-built” modifications. The Director may field-verify
       landscape improvements prior to final project approval. Certification of compliance with approved
       irrigation plans shall be provided by the licensed professional under whose construction
       observation the irrigation system was installed.

19.50.140       CERTIFICATE OF SUBSTANTIAL COMPLETION

       Upon completion of all required landscaping improvements, the property owner shall complete a
       certificate of substantial completion for submittal to the Director. A disclosure document shall be
       filed with the county recorder’s office clearly indicating that the property is subject to the
       requirements of this chapter and that any re-landscaping by the present or future property owners
       shall be in accordance with the certified landscape plan for the property. Proof of recordation shall
       be provided prior to final land use approval.

19.50.150       ENFORCEMENT OF LANDSCAPE REGULATIONS

       A. No building permit or occupancy permit shall be issued for any lot or use subject to the
          requirements of this chapter unless all the requirements of this chapter have been fulfilled.
          Failure to implement the landscape plan, or to maintain the lot or use in substantial
          conformance with the landscape plan, shall be cause for revocation of the occupancy permit
          and/or the application of fines and penalties, as established in this Code. In addition, all
          landscaping is subject to periodic inspection.

       B. If weather prohibits the installation of landscaping at the time an occupancy permit is applied
          for, the applicant shall post a bond to guarantee the completion of the landscaping, which
          shall be returned upon completion of required landscaping.
CHAPTER 19.78 - PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS                                                                         Commented [CW78]: This chapter was revised recently
                                                                                                                  at the insistence of the Millcreek Township Planning
                                                                                                                  Commission (before they became a city). It has a limited
                                                                                                                  view of what a P.U.D. should look and feel like based on a
                                                                                                                  Millcreek perspective.
19.78.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of a planned unit development (PUD) is:
     1.   To provide a high quality living environment, and to utilize and incorporate natural features in the
          land development design.
     2.   To provide a more efficient use of the land and the preservation of greater proportions of open
          space for recreation and visual use than is otherwise provided for in the zoning regulations.
     3.   To provide good and compatible neighborhood and housing design by utilizing a variety of
          dwelling types and site arrangement plans to allow for greater flexibility and diversity in the
          physical pattern of the development.
     4.    To provide developments compatible with existing residential uses while maintaining a
          harmonious environment within the community.
     5.   To create mixed use areas designed to be beneficial to the neighborhood.
     6.   To ensure substantial compliance with the intent of this chapter related to the public health, safety
          and general welfare, while securing the efficient use of the land for residential, or a combination
          of commercial and residential development.
    It is the intent of this chapter that the development plan for a planned unit development shall be
prepared by a designer(s) having professional competence in urban planning.




19.78.020 - Applicability and area requirements.                                                                  Commented [CW79]: This section probably needs to
                                                                                                                  clarify how much flexibility is allowed for residential
     A planned unit development is a conditional use that is only allowed for residential uses, except as         development. In other words, if a proposal does not exceed
provided in Section 19.78.040, and in zones that allow residential uses. The provisions in this chapter shall     the maximum density in the zone, can all of the units be
govern over the chapters relating to these other zones and other chapters in this title, with the exception of    attached even though the zone is “single-family
the FCOZ ordinance, Chapters 19.72 and 19.73, and the RCOZ ordinance, Chapter 19.71. A planned unit               residential?”
development in these zones shall have a minimum area of three acres, with the following exceptions:
     1.   Existing condominium developments that cannot be sold or refinanced without the common area
          adjoining the homes in the development being divided up into individual lots that include the
          adjoining homes, and where these newly created lots would not qualify as traditional subdivision
          lots under countymetro township ordinance. In such cases, the newly created lots may qualify as
          a planned unit development if the development is at least one acre in size. Such a development
          shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter, except Sections 19.78.090—19.78.130
          relating to review of the development.
     2.   Developments abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan shall have a
          minimum area of one acre. To qualify as a development that is abutting or contiguous to a corridor,
          said development shall have a minimum frontage of the sum of the required minimum lot width of
          two lots as determined by the current zoning designation.




19.78.030 - Development requirements.




                                                                                                     Page 251
     The following are required for all developments:
     1.   Ownership. The property shall be in single or corporate ownership at the time of application, or
          the subject of an application filed jointly by all owners of the property.
     2.   Open Space. Common and private open space shall be provided and shall cover no less than                Commented [CW80]: There was a concerted effort to
          forty percent of the gross site area. Common open space shall be provided in the amount of at           clarify what is meant by open space in this new PUD
          least twenty percent of the gross site area. For purposes of this chapter, gross site area is defined   ordinance.
          as the total area of a planned unit development excluding anything in the public right-of-way.
      The required common open space shall be land areas that are not occupied by buildings, dwellings,
structures, parking areas, streets, public park strips, curb-gutter-sidewalk, driveways, or alleys and shall be
accessible by all residents of the development. Buildings erected for the purpose of providing an amenity
may be included as open space. Said open space may be an area of land or water set aside, or reserved
for use by residents of the development, including an expanse of lawn, trees, plants, fully accessible
landscaped roof areas, or other natural areas. Common open space also includes common walkways (but
not curb-gutter-sidewalk), formal picnic areas, and recreational areas. Common open space may be
distributed throughout the development and need not be in a single large area. Common open space may
include sensitive areas, such as areas with thirty percent or greater slope, fault zones, flood plains, high
water tables, and wetlands, if they have been designed as an integral element of the project.
     Private open space is that space which is provided for each dwelling unit for personal use. Private
open space is typically located immediately adjacent to or attached to the dwelling unit it is designed to
serve and is for the exclusive use of the residents of the dwelling unit. Landscaped roof areas, balconies,
or decks attached to individual units are considered private open space and are not to be calculated as part
of required common open space.
    The planning commission may reduce the open space requirements of this section in order to
accommodate a density bonus provided for in this chapter.
     3.    Interior Streets. The design of public and private streets within a development shall follow
          countymetro township standards for roadway development as defined by the countymetro
          township transportation engineer. Private streets shall be subject to the same inspections and
          construction standards as required for public streets. The countymetro township shall be granted
          a utility easement of the entire interior street system in a development project. All private streets
          shall be conveyed to a private association.
     4.   Garbage and Recycling. The development shall be designed to accommodate and efficiently
          manage the collection, storage, and removal of garbage in harmony with the neighborhood so as
          to minimize detrimental effects of the collection, storage, and removal on any residence within
          the development or abutting neighborhoods. If dumpster enclosures are provided for the
          development, no refuse dumpster or dumpster enclosure structure shall be located closer than
          ten feet to any perimeter property line. Enclosure structures must have a minimum of three sides
          that reflect or emulate the materials, design, and quality of the overall development. All
          developments shall provide recycling services.
     5.   Parking. The following minimum parking shall be provided for all multi-family projects under this       Commented [CW81]: Parking and guest parking has been
          chapter:                                                                                                sometimes problematic in PUDs, so this section attempts to
          a.   Table of Parking Ratios.                                                                           clarify the issue.

                      One bedroom unit                                   1.5 parking spaces per unit

                 Two or more bedroom units                               2.0 parking spaces per unit

                    Guest parking spaces                           0.33 parking spaces per unit (min. of 6)




                                                                                                     Page 252
   Storage parking spaces for recreational vehicle storage                     Not Allowed




         b.   The parking requirements identified in this section supersede other parking requirements in
              this title.
         c.   All parking areas, covered or open, except garages, shall have a landscaped buffer in
              accordance with Chapter 19.77, Water Efficient Landscape Design and Development
              Standards.
         d.   Developments offering the amenities listed below are entitled to the applicable parking
              reductions. These reductions are not mandatory, but if they are chosen, are cumulative. The
              planning commission may further modify the required parking with support of a traffic study.

Eligible Unit Parking Reductions

                                                                                              Reduction
                                      Amenity
                                                                                              (stalls/unit)

                                                                                       0.05 per car share
                    Car Sharing (minimum 100 dwelling units)
                                                                                            vehicle

                Bicycle Lockers/Storage (1 space per unit required)                              0.05

                   Bicycle Share (on-site self-serve bike station)                               0.05

               Development-supplied transit passes for all residents                             0.15

Proximity of development within ¼ mile of a rail or Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) station              0.20

Proximity of development within ½ mile of a rail or Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) station              0.10

                                   Senior Housing                                                0.20

                 Housing for students (< .25 miles from campus)                                  0.10

 For Mixed-Use PUDs (19.78.040), shared parking that allows both customers and
                                                                                                 0.20
                    residents to park in the same spaces.




         e.   Parking is prohibited within approved fire access and turn-around facilities.
         f.   Garages are encouraged.




                                                                                                      Page 253
           (1)    Garage parking, if used, shall have a minimum unobstructed size of twenty-two feet
                 wide by twenty feet in length, or twenty feet wide by twenty-two feet in length. Single-
                 car garages are also permitted and shall have a minimum unobstructed size of ten feet
                 wide by twenty-two feet in length, or eleven feet wide by twenty feet in length.
           (2)    Covered parking, if used, shall be placed in locations adjacent or convenient to the
                 buildings that they are intended to serve.
           (3)    Tandem spaces may be allowed with a minimum size requirement of twenty feet long
                 by nine feet wide per parking space, up to a maximum of two contiguous spaces per
                 unit.
           (4)    Tandem spaces may be allowed with a minimum size requirement of twenty feet long
                 by nine feet wide per parking space, up to a maximum of two contiguous spaces per
                 unit.
      g.   Underground parking. Installation of underground parking adequate to meet fifty percent of
           the parking requirements of this section excluding guest parking, shall receive a twenty
           percent density bonus for the planned unit development.
6.    Building Materials. Exterior materials of a durable or resilient nature such as brick, stone, stucco,   Commented [CW82]: These next several sections are an
      prefinished panel, composite materials, or other materials of similar quality, hardiness, and low       attempt to putting specific design criteria into the PUD
      maintenance characteristics shall be used. No single material is allowed to exceed fifty percent        code, based on the Millcreek planning commission’s
      on street-facing facades. Other materials may be considered for soffits, or as an accent or             viewpoint. This may or may not be the direction Copperton
      architectural feature. Twenty-five year guarantee, architectural shingles and/or other longer           wants to go.
      lasting roof materials are required.
7.    Landscaping on Public Right-of-Way. With the exception of Forestry Zones, where a development
      is adjacent to a public right-of-way, a permanent open space shall be required along any front,
      side, or rear yard adjacent to said right-of-way. This area shall be kept free of buildings and
      structures (except fences, as per Chapter 19.77.050, and approved by the planning commission),
      and permanently maintained with street trees and other landscaping, screened or protected by
      natural features, as per Chapter 19.77. If such areas are the result of double frontage lot designs
      with inadequate access to the street, such areas shall be landscaped as per Chapter 19.77 with
      a five-foot landscaped area. Aesthetic entrance features are encouraged. Additional landscape
      treatments or buffers may also be required with width and landscaping specifications as per
      Chapter 19.77.
8.    Perimeter Fencing. With the exception of Forestry Zones, fencing around the perimeter of all
      developments shall be provided. Acceptable fencing materials include architecturally designed
      brick, stone, or block, or pre-cast concrete. Fencing with materials using composite products,
      wrought iron, wood, or vinyl may be allowed with a minimum two-foot wide, six-foot tall brick or
      stone pillar spaced every ten feet on center. Unless otherwise allowed by the planning
      commission, exterior fencing along a public right-of-way shall be limited to brick, stone, or block,
      or pre-cast concrete and be setback a minimum of five feet from the property line to allow for a
      landscaping buffer designed in accordance with Chapter 19.77 to soften long expanses of walls.
      Interior fencing shall comply with Section 19.78.030(11)(f).
9.    Interior Street Lights. With the exception of Forestry Zones, street and pedestrian lighting for
      streets on the interior of the PUD is required. All lighting fixtures shall be directed downward with
      mechanisms to prevent dark sky illumination. The applicant shall submit a plan which indicates
      the type and location of lights in relation to the development and designed for pedestrian safety.
      Minimum average foot-candles for local residential roads (thirty-five feet maximum) shall be 0.3,
      and shall be 0.5 for residential collector roads (thirty-six feet—forty-five feet).
10.     Signage. Only low profile signs with a maximum size of fifty square feet, and five feet in height
      are allowed. No temporary signs are allowed other than for sale or rent signs with a maximum of
      six square feet in area per side. Only three such signs are allowed per three hundred feet of
      frontage. The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any, and the intensity and direction of



                                                                                                 Page 254
      any associated lighting shall be detailed in the application, and, except as provided in this chapter,
      shall be consistent with the characteristics of the community and Chapter 19.82, Signs.
11.     Site Plan. All developments shall be guided by a total design plan in which the following
      development standards may be varied to allow density bonuses, and flexibility and creativity in
      site design and building location. The planning commission may require such arrangements of
      structures, open spaces, landscaping, buffering, and access within the site development plan so
      that adjacent properties will not be adversely affected. The following criteria shall be used by the
      planning commission principally to assure the design objectives of this section are met.
      a.   Density. Subject to the following density bonuses, the density allowed for a development
           shall be no greater than that allowed in the zone in which it is located. Density shall be
           calculated using only net developable acreage. A density bonus in the following amounts is
           allowed if either or both of the following conditions exist:
           (1)     For developments with underground parking that is adequate to meet the parking
                 requirements of this chapter excluding guest parking, a density bonus of twenty percent
                 is allowed pursuant to 19.78.030(5)(g); and/or
           (2)    For developments within one-quarter mile (improved walking distance) of a rail or Bus
                 Rapid Transit (BRT) station, a density bonus of twenty percent is allowed. For
                 developments within one-half mile (improved walking distance) of a rail or BRT station,
                 but greater than one-quarter mile, a density bonus of ten percent is allowed.
      b.   Maximum Height. For the purpose of this chapter, building height is to be measured from the
           lowest point of original grade to the highest ridge.
           (1)    For any PUD adjacent to an R-1, R-2, R-4, A-1, or A-2 zone ("residential zone"), the
                 maximum height for structures on the perimeter of the PUD adjoining said zones shall
                 be twenty-eight feet. The maximum height of all other structures in such a PUD shall be
                 thirty-five feet. PUDs with one building only, are allowed a rooftop garden or patio
                 provided the rooftop garden or patio has a minimum setback of seventy-five feet from
                 the property line. For purposes of this chapter, a structure on the perimeter is defined
                 as any structure within fifty feet of the property line of the PUD.
                 (a)     The height of buildings along the perimeter of a planned unit development
                       adjoining a residential zone may be increased to the maximum height allowed in
                       the underlying zone by one foot increments, with each additional one foot height
                       increment requiring an additional one foot in setback from the perimeter (see figure
                       1 below for graphical rendering).
           (2)    The height of structures in all other planned unit developments shall conform to the
                 otherwise applicable ordinances.
           (3)     At the discretion of the planning commission, height for dwelling structures along
                 corridors as defined in the general plan and not adjoining a residential zone, may be
                 increased by an additional five feet to accommodate a density bonus provided for in this
                 chapter.
           (4)    Notwithstanding the above, the planning commission may at its discretion reduce or
                 increase the otherwise stated maximum heights if mitigation is warranted, but only in
                 cases where unusual topographical or other exceptional conditions or circumstances
                 exist, such as the height of surrounding buildings.




                                                                                                  Page 255
Figure 1. An illustration of height allowance as described in 11.b.1.a. above when approved by the planning
commission, where for every foot increase in height requires a foot increase in minimum setback. This
provision is designed to soften the impact to adjacent properties while allowing for increases in height where
appropriate.

          c.   Perimeter Setbacks. Buildings (including covered decks or covered patios, or decks or patios
               in excess of eighteen inches above existing grade) located on lots on the perimeter
               (excluding the public frontage defined in Chapter 19.78.040 of the development), shall have
               not less than a fifteen-foot setback from the perimeter lot line, and shall have a setback from
               a right-of-way as prescribed by the underlying zone and Chapter 19.77. Otherwise, no
               specific yard, setback, or lot size requirement is imposed by this chapter. However, the
               purpose and design objectives of this chapter must be complied with in the final development
               plan, and the planning commission may require specific setbacks within all or a portion of
               the development to maintain harmony with the existing character of the neighborhood.
          d.    Site Calculations. Specific calculations which address the percentage of open space,
               impervious versus pervious surfaces, and site improvements shall be submitted by the
               applicant with all project applications.
          e.   Traffic Circulation. Points of primary vehicular access to the development shall be designed
               to provide smooth traffic flow with controlled turning movements and minimum hazards to
               vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle traffic. Adequate emergency vehicle access shall be
               provided. Internal circulation systems shall include pedestrian paths, and may include bicycle
               paths, preferably separated from vehicular traffic. Where recreational facilities exist or are
               planned adjacent to the proposed development, such pedestrian and bicycle paths shall
               connect to these facilities.
          f.   Privacy. Each development shall provide reasonable visual and acoustical privacy for
               dwelling units. Fences, walks, barriers, landscaping, and sound reducing construction
               techniques shall be used as appropriate to enhance the privacy of its occupants, the
               screening of objectionable views or uses, and the reduction of noise.
          g.   Sidewalks. With the exception of forestry zones, as required elements of a development,
               interior sidewalks shall be installed to serve the units and connect to the public street.



                                                                                                    Page 256
           h.   Utilities. All utilities shall be located underground, except as may be provided for in state law.
                Utility equipment shall be screened from view and preferably, not fronting on a public street.
           i.   Private outdoor spaces. Each residential unit shall be required to have an outdoor patio/rear
                 yard space with a minimum of one hundred square feet, or a balcony with a fifty square foot
                 minimum.
     12.    Desirable Amenities. Amenities that are identified in the Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro
           Township Recreation and Open Space Standards Policy shall be installed in accordance with that
           policy. Where conflicts exist with this chapter and the Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township
           Recreation and Open Space Standards Policy, requirements identified in this chapter shall
           supersede.
     13.     Miscellaneous. Installation of xeriscaping is encouraged as an alternative to excessive lawn
           areas or other landscaping treatments that excessively consume water. Low impact/water
           retention development techniques are encouraged to manage stormwater onsite including but not
           limited to planter boxes, rain gardens, and bioswales in the open spaces.
      Parking areas, service areas, buffers, entrances, exits, yards, courts, landscaping, graphics, and
lighting for both residential and non-residential development shall be designed as integrated portions of the
total development and shall project the residential character.




19.78.040 - Planned unit development mixed-use.                                                                      Commented [CW83]: The only way to obtain PUD
                                                                                                                     approval for a non-residential component is to have “mixed
     In a planned unit development, vertical mixed-use is allowed in zones that allow both residential and           use” which as a residential element and commercial
commercial and/or office uses, provided it meets the following requirements, in addition to the other                element combined into the same building.
requirements in this chapter. For purposes of this section, vertical mixed-use means commercial or office
uses sharing the same building as residential uses.
     1.    The property is abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan, or major or
           minor arterial ("street").
     2.    Commercial uses shall only be allowed on the first floor of buildings fronting on the street. Office
           uses shall only be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on the street.
           Entrances to the first floor of these buildings shall front on the street. Windows shall make up at
           least fifty percent of street-facing facades of these floors. These floors shall have architectural
           differentiation from the other floors in the building.
     3.    Parking is not allowed between the building(s) and the street.
     4.    The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet, except as provided in subsection (E), and the side
           and rear yards shall be twenty feet minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two front yards.
     5.    The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation of the
           building(s) must be built within ten feet of the build-to-line or as approved by the planning
           commission. A build-to-line is defined as the line at which construction of a building façade is to
           occur on a lot, running parallel to the front property line, and ensuring a uniform (or more or less
           even) building façade line on the street.
     6.    Landscaping along the street shall comply with this chapter and Chapter 19.77.
     7.    Signage for commercial or office uses shall be limited to signs on the building(s) that comply with
           Chapter 19.82.




19.78.050 - Maintenance of common facilities.



                                                                                                        Page 257
1.   A development shall be approved subject to the submission and recordation of legal instruments
     setting forth a plan or manner of permanent care and maintenance of all common open space and
     other facilities provided in the final development plan.
2.   Terms in the final development plan governing maintenance of common open space and other facilities
     shall comply with applicable provisions of the Utah Condominium Ownership Act, Title 57-8-101, et
     seq., or the Utah Community Association Act, Title 57-8a-101, et seq.




19.78.060 - Review process.                                                                                        Commented [CW84]: The next several sections are about
                                                                                                                   the review and approval process.
1.   Pre-Submittal Development Review. To help expedite review of a development proposal, prior to
     submitting a complete application for development, persons interested in undertaking development
     shall meet with a member(s) of the planning staff for a planner/applicant meeting, to become
     acquainted with the substantive and procedural requirements of this chapter.
2.   Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Staff creates, revises, and adheres to a development review
     standard operating procedure, to assist in the management and processing of applications. Applicants
     are encouraged to obtain a copy of the current SOP from planning and development services staff,
     and to seek guidance with respect to the review and understanding of the development review SOP
     from staff.
3.    Application. An application for a development must be submitted to planning and development
     services. As each development application is different and unique, application documents may vary
     with respect to content and need for specific reports and/or studies. Consultation with staff and
     examination of the development review SOP will guide the applicant through the review process and
     identify all submittal documents that will be required to formalize a complete application.
     a.   Site plan that satisfies the requirements of Section 19.78.030(11).
     b.   Landscaping plan. A landscape plan is to be prepared in accordance with Chapter 19.77 of this
          title. Staff can ask for justification of elements included in the landscape plan.
     c.   Architectural building elevations. The location and floor area of all existing and proposed buildings,
          structures, and other improvements including heights, types of dwelling units, non-residential
          structures including commercial facilities, preliminary elevations and architectural renderings of
          typical structures and improvements, shall be prepared by a licensed architect or other qualified
          professional.
     d.   Lighting plan.
     e.   Subdivision plat.




19.78.070 - Preliminary review.

     When a complete application has been accepted by staff, reviews completed by staff and related
agencies, and subsequent comments identified by staff and substantially addressed by the applicant, the
application is scheduled for a community council meeting and a public hearing before the appropriate
planning commission for their review and decision. Additional adjustments, revisions, or re-submittals may
be required during this process to identify all concerns related to conformance with the intent of this chapter.
Failure to submit complete and consistent information will result in written notification to the applicant that
the review cannot proceed further until all required, necessary, and requested information is submitted.




                                                                                                      Page 258
19.78.080 - Planning commission review.

      When preliminary review of the application has been determined to be complete and in compliance
with all requirements, the plans and preliminary plat together with all supporting information will be
forwarded to the planning commission for review. If the property is to be subdivided, all requirements set
forth in Title 18, Subdivisions, must be met.
     In accordance with Chapter 19.05.040 and Utah Code § 17-27a10-9a-506, the planning commission
shall review the proposed development plan to hear and receive public input and to determine if all
reasonably anticipated detrimental effects have been substantially mitigated. The planning commission
may require additional studies or analyses to enable it to determine how impacts should be addressed and
may establish reasonable conditions of approval to address those anticipated impacts, as per Chapter
19.84.060.




19.78.090 - Validity of preliminary review.

1.   Once the planning commission determines that preliminary review is complete, the preliminary plat or
     approved site plan is valid (twelve months for the preliminary plat and twelve months for the site plan).
     The division director may grant a one-year extension of the preliminary plat or approved site plan,
     provided the plat still complies with all applicable ordinances.
2.   If a PUD subdivision will be recorded in phases, a final plat for the first phase must be recorded within
     one year of the initial planning commission approval or one-year extension thereof, the validity of the
     unrecorded portions of the approved preliminary plat will extend for one year from the recording date
     of the plat for the previous phase. Extensions of time beyond three years from the date of initial
     approval require review and approval of the planning commission prior to the then current expiration
     of the preliminary plat.




19.78.100 - Post-planning commission approval.

     After completing the preliminary review by the departments, agencies, and planning commission, the
applicant shall submit a final site plan and preliminary and final subdivision plats together with all supporting
documents which comply with all requirements, corrections, additions, etc. required by the departments,
agencies, and planning commission to the planning and development services division (hereinafter known
as the "development plan").
     1.   The planning and development services division, along with the other reviewing departments and
          agencies, shall review the proposed development plan to verify compliance with all requirements,
          corrections, additions, etc.
     2.   After such review, the item may be scheduled for review by the planning commission upon referral
          by the division director or at the request of the planning commission. The final development plan
          shall include all of the information required in the preliminary development plan in its finalized
          detailed form.




19.78.110 - Amendments to the development plan.

     The division director or designee may authorize minor changes in the location, siting, or character of
buildings and structures if required to resolve an engineering or other technical issue, or other




                                                                                                       Page 259
circumstances not identified at the time the final development plan was approved. No change authorized
under this section may cause any of the following ("major changes"):
     1.   A change in the use and/or character of the development.
     2.   An increase in the overall density and/or intensity of use.
     3.   An increase of more than five percent in overall coverage of structures.
     4.   A reduction or change in character of approved open space.
     5.   A reduction of required off-street parking by more than five percent.
     6.   A detrimental alteration to the pedestrian, vehicular, bicycle, circulation, or utility networks.
     7.   A reduction in required street pavement widths.
     8.   An increase in building height.
     9.   A decrease in building setback.
     Any major changes must be proposed to the planning commission after receipt of a recommendation
by planning staff. Proposals under numbers 1. through 9. above require the filing of a new application.
Generally speaking, any major changes must be recorded as amendments in accordance with the
procedure established for adopting the final development plan.




19.78.120 - Failure to begin development.

      If no substantial construction has occurred in the development pursuant to the final development plan
within twelve months from final approval, the approved plan shall become null and void and a new
development plan and application shall be required for any development on the subject property. The
division director, upon a determination of good cause based on evidence submitted by the applicant, may
extend the time for beginning construction a maximum period of twelve months for one time only.




19.78.130 - Phased planned unit development.

     If the sequence of construction of various portions of the final development plan is to occur in stages,
then the open space and/or recreational facilities shall be developed in proportion to the number of dwelling
units intended to be developed during any given stage of construction. A phasing plan, including size and
order of phases, shall be approved by staff to ensure that individual phases of the development comply
with all requirements, including that the open space and/or recreational facilities are installed
proportionately with the approved phasing plan.




                                                                                                       Page 260
