                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.pwpds.slco.org



        Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                     Tuesday, June 11, 2019 6:00 P.M.

Location
BINGHAM CANYON LIONS CLUB
95 EAST HILLCREST STREET
COPPERTON, UTAH
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of Minutes from the May 14, 2019 meeting.
    2) General Plan discussion
    3) Confirm July 9, 2019 meeting attendance
    4) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                          ADJOURN




June 11, 2019                               Page 1 of 1       AGENDA – COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                           Planning and Development Services
                                           2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                           Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                           www.pwpds.slco.org



                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                     COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                  Tuesday, May 14, 2019 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 2 hours 19 minutes                       *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                     County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Stone

                                                 ATTENDANCE
                               Public     Business                                                         Public      Business
        Commissioners                                Absent               Planning Staff / DA
                                Mtg         Mtg                                                             Mtg          Mtg
        Ranuta Alder                         x
        Vern Winkler                         x                             Curtis Woodward                                 x
         Ryan Taylor                         x                               Wendy Gurr                                    x
     Doug Green (Chair)                                x
    Mike Stone (Vice Chair)                  x


                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 6:01 p.m.
   1) Election of Vice Chair 2019 (Pending)
      Election of Vice Chair
      Motion: Commissioner Winkler nominated Commissioner Stone for Vice Chair. Commissioner
      Stone accepted.
             Motion by: Commissioner Winkler
             2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

   2) Approval of Minutes from the April 9, 2019 meeting
      Motion: To approve minutes from the April 9, 2019 meeting as presented.
            Motion by: Commissioner Alder
            2nd by: Commissioner Stone
            Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
   3) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances

Commissioner Winkler said he has open space. Mr. Woodward said council wanted a work meeting with
the planning commission on RCOZ and had evolved out of the Historic Preservation. He asked the mayor
to invite council members and no one appeared and hasn’t heard back and spoke with the attorney. Changes
made to open space ordinance. Commissioner Winkler wants a motion version of open space for approval.
Mr. Woodward said since they haven’t come to the work meeting, we could put it on their agenda and may
elect to wait and attorney said once they’re through with the budget cycle, then will get in to tackling


Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – May 14, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                       Page 1 of 3
ordinances as a council.

19.72 – Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ)

19.72.010 – no change
19.72.020 – no change
19.72.030 – no change
19.72.040 – no change
19.72.050 – no change
19.72.060 – no change
19.72.070 – no change
19.72.080 – no change
19.72.090 – no change
19.72.100 – no change
19.72.110 – no change
19.72.120 – no change
19.72.130 – no change
19.72.140 – no change
19.72.150 – no change
19.72.160 – no change
19.72.170 – no change
19.72.180 – no change
19.72.190 – no change
19.72.200 – no change

19.74 – Floodplain Hazard Regulations –

Commissioner Stone said it looks like we are waiting for the edits to be made. Commissioner Winkler
recommends the code stay as federal requirements.

19.75 – Geological Hazards Ordinance

       Motion: To recommend 19.74 and 19.75 to the Copperton Metro Township Council to defer to the
       County code, rather than adopt Copperton Metro Township specific, with the understanding that
       county code includes state code and federal code.
              Motion by: Commissioner Winkler
              2nd by: Commissioner Stone
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

19.76 – Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations

19.76.010 – no change
19.76.020 – no change
19.76.030 – no change
19.76.035 – no change
19.76.040 – no change
19.76.050 – no change
19.76.060 – no change
19.76.065 – no change
19.76.070 – no change

Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – May 14, 2019 – Meeting Summary            Page 2 of 3
19.76.080 – no change
19.76.090 – no change
19.76.100 – no change
19.76.110 – no change
19.76.130 – no change
19.76.140 – no change
19.76.160 – no change
19.76.170 – no change
19.76.190 – no change
19.76.200 – no change
19.76.210 – no change
19.76.220 – no change
19.76.240 – no change
19.76.250 – no change
19.76.260 – no change
19.76.270 – eliminate
19.76.280 – no change
19.76.290 – no change
19.76.300 – no change
19.76.310 – no change

Mr. Woodward touched on 19.77 – Water Efficient Landscape Design and Development Standards. This
item was continued to the June meeting.

19.78 – Planned Unit Developments

19.78.010 – no change
19.78.020 – no change
19.78.030 – no change
19.78.040 – no change
19.78.050 – no change
19.78.060 – no change
19.78.070 – no change
19.78.080 – no change
19.78.090 – no change
19.78.100 – no change
19.78.110 – no change
19.78.120 – no change
19.78.130 – no change

   4) Other Business Items (as needed)

Commissioner Winkler asked how to go about getting a four lane road and traffic flow. Mr. Woodward
advised impact fees and an RFP for a consultant.

Commissioner Alder motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Taylor seconded that motion.

                                        MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 8:20 p.m.


Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – May 14, 2019 – Meeting Summary             Page 3 of 3
                                     Planning and Development Services
                                     2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                     Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                     slco.org/development-services




               Ordinance Summary and Recommendation
Public Body: Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission                Meeting Date: June 11, 2019
Request: Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances
Planner: Curtis Woodward


                                       PROJECT DESCRIPTION
The Copperton Metro Council has asked the planning commission to focus on the Copperton General Plan
project and set aside the ordinance review project for now. However, since planning staff committed to provide
the ordinance with commentary to the planning commission members, we have done so for your review.




                                               SUMMARY
Attached is the working document of the zoning ordinance thus far, including notes made by both Debbie Riddle
and Curtis Woodward as to suggestions made by the planning commission members about potential changes to
the ordinance.
Title 19 - Zoning



Chapter 19.02 - GENERAL PROVISIONS AND ADMINISTRATION                                                        Commented [DR1]: Begin review discussion: August 2018
                                                                                                             meeting.



19.02.010 - Title for citation.

    This title shall be known as the "Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Salt Lake CountyCopperton
Metro Township, Utah," and may be so cited and pleaded. This title shall also be known as Title
19, Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township Code of Ordinances.


19.02.020 - Purpose of provisions.

     This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals,
conveniences, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and future inhabitants of Salt Lake
CountyCopperton Metro Township, including, among other things, the lessening of congestion in
the streets or roads, securing safety from fire and other dangers, providing adequate light and air,
classification of land uses and distribution of land development and utilization, protection of the
tax base, securing economy in governmental expenditures, fostering the countymetro township's
agricultural and other industries, and the protection of both urban and nonurban development.



19.02.030 - Interpretation as minimum requirements.

    In interpreting and applying the provisions of this title, the requirements contained herein are
declared to be the minimum requirements for the purposes set forth.



19.02.040 - Resolution of conflicts.

     This title shall not nullify the more restrictive provisions of covenants, agreements, other
ordinances, or laws, but shall prevail notwithstanding such provisions which are less restrictive.



19.02.050 - Effect on previous ordinances and maps.

     The existing ordinances of the countymetro township covering the zoning of areas and
districts in Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township, in their entirety and including the maps
theretofore adopted and made a part of such ordinances, are hereby superseded and amended
to read as set forth in this title; provided, however that this title, including the maps on file with the
planning commissionmetro township council and by this reference made a part hereof, shall be                 Commented [DR2]: Copperton PC recommends that the
deemed a continuation of previous ordinances, and not a new enactment, insofar as the                        maps be kept by the Metro Township Council or the Metro
substance of revisions of previous ordinances is included in this title, whether in the same or in           Service District



                                                                                                   Page 1
different language; and this title shall be so interpreted upon all questions of construction,
including but not limited to questions of construction, relating to tenure of officers and boards
established by previous ordinances, and to questions of conforming or nonconforming uses,
buildings or structures, and to questions as to the dates upon which such uses, buildings or
structures became conforming or nonconforming.



19.02.060 - Licensing requirements.

      All departments, officials and public employees of the county or metro township which are
vested with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions of
this title and shall issue no permits or licenses for use, building or purpose where the same would
be in conflict with the provisions of this title, and any such permit or license, if issued in conflict
with the provisions of this title, shall be null and void.



19.02.070 - Time computation.

A.    In computing any period of time prescribed or allowed by this title, the day of the act, event
     or decision after which the designated period of time begins to run is not to be included. The
     last day of the period so computed is to be included, unless it is a Saturday, Sunday or legal
     holiday, in which event the period runs until the end of the next day, which is neither a
     Saturday, Sunday or a holiday. When the period of time prescribed or allowed is less than
     seven days, intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and holidays shall be excluded in the
     computation. A half-holiday shall be considered as other days and not as a holiday.
B.    The date of a decision or recommendation of the planning commission shall be the date of
     the public meeting or hearing such decision or recommendation is made. If the decision is
     made by the development services director, the date of the decision shall be the date
     specified on the property owner's notification letter in the application file.



19.02.080 - Site plans required—Contents.

     A detailed site plan, drawn to scale (scale and sheet size to be determined by the director)
shall be filed as part of any application prior to consideration or for any building permit. The site
plan shall show, where pertinent:
     A.   Note of scale used;
     B.   Direction of North point;
     C.   Lot lines, together with adjacent streets, roads and rights-of-way;
     D.     Location of all existing structures on subject property and adjoining properties
          (completely dimensioned, including utility lines, poles, etc);
     E.    Location of the proposed construction and improvements, including the location of all
          signs;



                                                                                                Page 2
     F.    Motor vehicle access, including individual parking stalls, circulation patterns, curb,
          gutter, and sidewalk location;
     G.    Necessary explanatory notes;
     H.    Name, address and telephone number of builder and owner;
     I.   All other information that may be required, as determined by the director.



19.02.090 - Building and use permits required.

     Construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or structure, or any part thereof, as
provided or as restricted in this title, shall not be commenced or proceeded with except after the
issuance of a written permit for the same by the countymetro township building official. The use
of the land shall not be commenced or proceeded with except upon the issuance of a written
permit for the same by the development services division director or designee. No use permit
shall be required for land used for agricultural purposes, as defined in this title, and/or for the
keeping or raising of animals or fowl.



19.02.100 - Compliance prerequisite to permit issuance.

A.    No building permit may be issued without first having been approved by the building official.
     The building official shall not approve a building permit if any building, structure or use of land
     would be in violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor shall any other countymetro
     township officer grant any permit or license nor the use of any building or land if use would
     be in violation of this title.
B.    Neither the building official nor any other county or metro township officer shall grant any
     permit, license, or land use approval of any building or land in violation of chapter 9.25,
     entitled "Water Source Protection."



19.02.110 - Improvements—Performance bonds.

A.    Any improvements required under this title or by the planning commission, including but not
     limited to curb, gutter and sidewalk, fences, landscaping, streets, fire hydrants and parking,
     shall be satisfactorily installed prior to the county or metro township authorizing electrical
     service being provided; or, if no electrical service is required, prior to issuance of any
     occupancy permit for the land being developed. In lieu of actual completion of such
     improvements, or in the case of landscaping, in addition to, except where seasonal
     considerations reasonably preclude installation of live plant materials, and prior to electrical
     service being provided or occupancy permit, a developer may file with the mayormetro
     township mayor or his designee a cash or surety bond or escrow agreement or letter of credit,
     in an amount specified by the mayormetro township mayor or his designee, to ensure
     completion of improvements within one year. Twenty-five percent of the bond amount for
     public improvements, such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road surfacing and fire hydrants, shall
     extend for a one-year period beyond the date the improvements are completed, to guarantee


                                                                                                 Page 3
     replacement of such defective public improvements. Twenty-five percent of the bond amount
     for live plant materials shall extend for a two-year period beyond the date of planting to
     guarantee replacement of diseased or dead plants. Upon completion of the improvements
     for which a bond or escrow agreement has been filed, the developer shall call for inspections
     of the improvements by the development services director or his authorized agent.
B.    If the mayormetro township mayor or designee determines that the required improvements
     should be completed in a specified sequence and/or in less than a one-year period in order
     to protect the health, safety and welfare of the countymetro or its residents from traffic, flood,
     drainage or other hazards, the mayormetro township mayor or designee may require in
     approving the bond that the improvements be installed in a specified sequence and period
     which may be less than one year and shall incorporate such requirements in the bond.
C.   Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in
     Chapter 3.56 of this code.
D.    When the developer is a school district, municipality, service area, special-purpose district
     or other political subdivision of the state, the mayormetro township mayor may waive the
     bond and accept a letter from the governing body guaranteeing installation of the
     improvements. Before approving any such waiver, the mayormetro township mayor shall
     receive a recommendation from the public works director.



19.02.120 - Development standards.

    The planning commission may adopt development standards for use as a guide in conditional
use review and subdivision design, and for use in site plan review for single-family dwellings in
forest and recreation zones.



19.02.130 - Land use applications.

     The director of planning and development services ("the director") or the director's designee
shall be the administrator of the Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township zoning ordinance.
In order to assure that each proposed land use or proposed amendment to an existing land use
is handled consistently and fully complies with the provisions of this title, the director or director's
designee shall administer application and review procedures as outlined herein unless specific
procedures are otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance. Applications shall be diligently
prosecuted to completion by the applicant to ensure that any action taken to approve or deny an
application is based on current information. An application shall not be considered complete until
all application fees have been paid and all required materials have been submitted. The payment
of a partial fee and preliminary plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete
application. The land use application process shall consist of the following:
     A.   An application procedure, which shall include:
          1.    Submission of an application form, as designed by the director or director's
               designee, which clearly indicates the type and purpose of the application, property
               address, and applicant information;




                                                                                                 Page 4
         2.   Submission of a legal description of the property plat, a designated number of site
              plans, building elevations, and mailing labels (if required) for notifications;
         3.   Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.
    B.   A review procedure, which may include:
         1.   The creation of a planning file by which the applicant, staff, and the public can refer
              to the proposed land use;
         2.   An on-site review by the director or director's designee as allowed in Utah Code 17-
              27a10-9a-303;
         3.   Review of the submitted site plan and elevations for compliance with the zoning
              ordinance;
         4.    Referral of the application and site plans to those government agencies and/or
              affected entities necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public
              and to ensure the project's compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes;
    C.   An approval procedure, which shall include:
         1.   The integration of the recommendations from the other government agencies and
              affected entities involved in subsection (B)(4) of this section into the final site plan
              and/or elevations;
         2.   An approval letter or other written document indicating the approval or denial of the
              application with appropriate conditions as needed to ensure compliance with all
              applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations;
         3.    Provision of the approved site plan and approval letter or denial letter to the
              applicant in a timely manner.



19.02.140 - Deputy mayor and the chief administrative officer designated to conduct county's
land use hearings and execute land use documents.

    In accordance with state law and county ordinance, the county council hereby designates the
deputy mayor and the chief administrative officer to conduct the county's land use hearings and
execute land use documents in its behalf.



Chapter 19.04 - DEFINITIONS



19.04.005 - Definitions and interpretation of language.

     For the purpose of this title, certain words and terms are defined as set out in this chapter.
Words used in the present tense include the future; words in the singular number include the
plural and the plural the singular; and words included herein but defined in the building code shall
be construed as defined therein.




                                                                                               Page 5
19.04.010 - Abandonment.

    "Abandonment." See Section 19.88.130.



19.04.020 - Agriculture.

     "Agriculture" means the tilling of the soil, the raising of crops, horticulture and gardening, but
not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals or fowl, except household pets, and not
including any agricultural industry or business such as fruit-packing plants, fur farms, animal
hospitals or similar uses.



19.04.025 - Airport.

     "Airport" means any landing area, runway or other facility designed, used or intended to be
used either publicly or by any persons for the landing and taking off of aircraft, including all
necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tiedown areas, hangars, and all other necessary
buildings and open spaces.



19.04.030 - Alley.

    "Alley" means a public thorough-fare less than twenty-five feet wide.



19.04.035 - Amusement device.

     "Amusement device" means any video game, pinball or other machine, whether mechanically
or electronically operated that, upon insertion of a coin, trade-token, slug or similar object, or upon
payment of money or other consideration through use of a metered or similar device, operates or
may be operated as a game or contest of skill or amusement of any kind or description, and that
contains no automatic payoff for the return of money or trade-tokens, or that makes no provision
whatever for the return of money to the player. An amusement device is further defined as any
machine, apparatus or contrivance that is used or that may be used as a game of skill and
amusement wherein or whereby the player initiates, employs or directs any force generated by
the machine. An amusement device shall exclude billiard, pool or bagatelle tables.



19.04.040 - Antique.

    "Antique" means a relic, work of art, piece of furniture or other decorative object of ancient
times, or made in a former age or period, highly valued for its beauty, craftsmanship or rarity.


                                                                                                Page 6
19.04.045 - Apartment court.

    "Apartment court" means any building or group of buildings which contains dwelling units,
and also satisfies the definition of tourist court, as defined in this chapter.



19.04.050 - Apartment house.

    "Apartment house" means a multiple dwelling; see "Dwelling, multiple-family."



19.04.055 - Apartment hotel.

     "Apartment hotel" means any building which contains dwelling units and also satisfies the
definition of a hotel, as defined in this chapter.



19.04.057 - Apartments for elderly persons.

    "Apartments for elderly persons" means an apartment building or complex of buildings,
twenty-four units or greater for occupancy exclusively by persons at least sixty-two years of age.



19.04.060 - Arcade.

    "Arcade" means any business catering to minors, containing four or more amusement
devices.



19.04.065 - Area of special flood hazard.

    "Area of special flood hazard" means the land in the floodplain within a community subject to
a one-percent or greater chance of flooding in any given year.



19.04.070 - Base flood.

    "Base flood" means a flood having a one-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.




                                                                                           Page 7
19.04.075 - Basement.

     "Basement" means any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a floor level
in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a basement unless such floor level
qualifies as a first story.



19.04.077 - Bed and breakfast homestay.

     "Bed and breakfast homestay" means a dwelling which has frontage on a street with a
minimum right-of-way of sixty feet, contains a maximum of five guestrooms, is occupied by the
owner or individual responsible for operating the facility, and used for accommodations or lodging
of guests paying compensation. Breakfast may be served during the a.m. hours. Lunch or dinner
may not be served. This use shall not change the character of the dwelling or property for
residential purposes and shall meet the requirements of the health department and the Salt Lake
County fire department. (The requirements of the health department limit breakfast to a
continental-type breakfast unless certain specified health regulations are met.)



19.04.078 - Bed and breakfast inn.

     "Bed and breakfast inn" means a building containing a minimum of six guestrooms, but not
more than thirty guestrooms (except the R-4-8.5 and R-M zones which are limited to a maximum
of twenty guestrooms), is used for accommodations or lodging of guests paying compensation
where at least a breakfast meal is served, and in which no provision is made for cooking in any
individual guestroom. The structure shall have a residential appearance and be limited to a
maximum of two stories in height.



19.04.080 - Boardinghouse.

   "Boardinghouse" means a building with not more than five guestrooms, where, for
compensation, meals are provided for at least five but not more than fifteen persons.



19.04.085 - Building.

    "Building" means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the housing
or enclosure of persons, animals or chattels.



19.04.090 - Building, accessory.

    "Accessory building" means a detached, subordinate building clearly incidental to and located
upon the same lot occupied by the main building. Also, a building clearly incidental to an


                                                                                             Page 8
agriculture or animal care land use located on a lot in an agriculture zone, which lot meets the
minimum lot size for such zone and is not under one acre in area.



19.04.095 - Building, height of.

A.    "Height of building" means the vertical distance above the lowest original ground surface at
     any point on the perimeter of the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or
     to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to a level midway between the level of the eaves and
     the highest point of pitched or hipped roofs, or to a level two-thirds of the distance from the
     level of the eaves to the highest point of gambrel roofs. For purposes of measuring height,
     the "level of the eaves" means the highest level where the plane of the roof intersects the
     plane of the outside wall on any side containing an eave.
B.    Buildings may be stepped to accommodate the slope of the terrain provided that each step
     shall be at least twelve feet in horizontal dimension. The height of each stepped building
     segment shall be measured as required in subsection A.
C.    Original ground surface shall be the elevation of the ground surface in its natural state before
     any manmade alterations including but not limited to grading, excavation or filling, excluding
     improvements required by zoning or subdivision ordinances. When the elevation of the
     original ground surface is not readily apparent because of previous manmade alterations, the
     elevation of the original grade shall be determined by the development services division using
     the best information available.



19.04.100 - Building, main.

     "Main building" means the principal building or one of the principal buildings upon a lot, or
the building or one of the principal buildings housing a principal use upon a lot.



19.04.105 - Canopy.

     "Canopy" means a roofed structure supported by a building and/or supports extending to the
ground directly underneath the canopy and providing a protective shield for service-station pump
islands and walkways.



19.04.110 - Carport.

     "Carport" means a private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the purpose
of this title, a carport shall be subject to all of the regulations prescribed for a private garage.



19.04.112 - Check cashing.


                                                                                               Page 9
     "Check cashing" means cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred deposit
loan (as defined by the Check Cashing Regulation Act of the Utah Code) but does not include the
activities of depository institutions or persons who cash a check in a transaction that is incidental
to the retail sale of goods or services for consideration that does not exceed the greater of one
percent of the amount of the check or one dollar.



19.04.115 - Child nursery.

     "Child nursery" means an establishment for the care, whether or not for compensation, of up
to six children other than members of the family residing on the premises.



19.04.120 - Church.

    "Church" means a building, together with its accessory buildings and uses, where persons
regularly assemble for religious worship, and which building, together with its accessory buildings
and uses, is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain public worship.



19.04.125 - Class A beer outlet.

     "Class A beer outlet" means a place of business wherein beer is sold in original containers
to be consumed off the premises in accordance with the Liquor Control Act of the state and the
licensing ordinance of the countymetro township.



19.04.130 - Class B beer outlet.

     "Class B beer outlet" means a place of business in connection with a bona fide restaurant
wherein beer is sold in original containers for consumption on the premises; provided, that the
sale of beer is less than forty percent of the gross dollar value, subject to the provisions of the
licensing ordinance of the countymetro township.



19.04.135 - Class C beer outlet.

     "Class C beer outlet" means a place of business wherein the primary or main business is that
of selling beer for consumption on the premises.



19.04.140 - Conditional use.




                                                                                             Page 10
    "Conditional use" means a use of land for which a conditional use permit is required pursuant
to Chapter 19.84 of this title.



19.04.145 - Corral.

    "Corral" means a space, other than a building, less than one acre in area or less than one
hundred feet in width, used for the confinement of animals.



19.04.150 - Court.

    "Court" means an occupied space on a lot, other than a yard, designed to be partially
surrounded by group dwellings.



19.04.155 - Dairy.

    "Dairy" means a commercial establishment for the manufacture or processing of dairy
products.



19.04.160 - Day care/preschool center.

    "Day care/preschool center" means:
    A.   Any facility, other than an occupied dwelling, operated by a person qualified by the state,
         which provides day care, protection or supervision and/or preschool instruction.
    B.   No person who is violent or being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse can be placed in
         a day care/preschool center. Placement in a day care/preschool center may not be part
         of or in lieu of confinement, rehabilitation or treatment in a correctional facility.



19.04.165 - Development.

     "Development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving,
excavation or drilling operations.



19.04.166 - Director.




                                                                                               Page 11
     "Director" means the director of the Salt Lake County planning and development services
division.



19.04.167 - Development services division.

    "Development services division" means the Salt Lake County public works, planning and
development services division.



19.04.168 - Disability.

    "Disability" means a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more of a
person's major life activities, including a person having a record of such an impairment or being
regarded as having such an impairment. "Disability" does not include current illegal use of, or
addiction to, any federally controlled substance, as defined in Section 102 of the Controlled
Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. 802.



19.04.170 - District.

   "District" means a portion of the unincorporated area of Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro
Township.



19.04.175 - Drive-in refreshment stand.

    "Drive-in refreshment stand" means a place of business where food and drink are sold
primarily for consumption on the premises outside the structure.



19.04.180 - Dwelling.

    "Dwelling" means any building, or portion thereof, which is designated for use for residential
purposes, except hotels, apartment hotels, boardinghouses, lodginghouses, tourist courts and
apartment courts.



19.04.185 - Dwelling, four-family.

    "Four-family dwelling" means a single building under a continuous roof containing four
dwelling units completely separated by either: (1) common interior walls, where the units are side




                                                                                          Page 12
by side; or (2) common interior floors, where the units are one above the other. A common wall(s)
may be located within an attached garage used for the storage of private automobiles.



19.04.190 - Dwelling group.

   "Dwelling group" means a group of two or more dwellings located on a parcel of land in one
ownership and having any yard or court in common.



19.04.195 - Dwelling, multiple-family.

    "Multiple-family dwelling" means a building arranged or designed to be occupied by more
than four families.



19.04.200 - Dwelling, single-family.

     "Single-family dwelling" means a building arranged or designed to be occupied by one family,
the structure having only one dwelling unit.



19.04.205 - Dwelling, three-family.

     "Three-family dwelling" means a single building under a continuous roof containing three
dwelling units completely separated by either: (1) common interior walls, where the units are side
by side; or (2) common interior floors, where the units are one above the other. A common wall(s)
may be located within an attached garage used for the storage of private automobiles.



19.04.210 - Dwelling, two-family.

     "Two-family dwelling" means a single building under a continuous roof containing two
dwelling units completely separated by either: (1) a common interior wall, where the units are side
by side; or (2) a common interior floor, where the units are one above the other. A common wall
may be located within an attached garage used for the storage of private automobiles.



19.04.215 - Dwelling unit.

    "Dwelling unit" means one or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an independent
housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with separate toilets and facilities for
cooking and sleeping. Buildings with more than one kitchen or set of cooking facilities are



                                                                                           Page 13
considered to contain more than one dwelling unit unless the additional cooking facilities are
clearly accessory to a dwelling unit as determined by the development services director. Factors
for determining whether cooking facilities are accessory to a dwelling unit may include but are not
limited to:
    1.    A building design which allows all occupants ready access to all portions of the building
         including cooking facilities;
    2.    No portion of the building containing cooking facilities can be separated from the
         remaining rooms to form a separate dwelling unit;
    3.   There is only one electric and/or gas meter for the building.



19.04.220 - Entrance.

    "Entrance" means the location of ingress to a room, building or lot; a location of admittance.



19.04.225 - Exit.

    "Exit" means the location of egress from a room, building or lot.



19.04.230 - Family.

    "Family" means:
    A.    Any number of people living together in a dwelling unit and related by blood, marriage
         or adoption, and including up to three additional unrelated people; or
    B.   One to four unrelated people living together in a dwelling.
             Each unrelated person owning or operating a motor vehicle shall have a lawfully
         located off-street parking space.



19.04.235 - Family food production.

     "Family food production" means the keeping of not more than two cows, two sheep, two
goats, twenty rabbits, fifty chickens, fifty pheasants, ten ducks, ten turkeys, ten geese and twenty
pigeons, provided that not more than three of the above-listed kinds of animals and fowl are
permitted at any one time on any lot in zones where family food production may be a permitted
or conditional use.



19.04.240 - Flood or flooding.



                                                                                            Page 14
    "Flood" or "flooding" means a general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
    A.   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
    B.   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from any source.



19.04.245 - Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM).

    "Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)" means the official map on which the Federal Emergency
Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards and the risk premium
zones applicable to the community.



19.04.250 - Flood insurance study.

     "Flood insurance study" means the official report provided by the Federal Emergency
Management Agency that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-floodway map, and the water
surface elevation of the base flood.



19.04.255 - Floodway.

     "Floodway" means the channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land areas
that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without cumulatively increasing the
water surface elevation more than one foot.



19.04.260 - Frontage.

     "Frontage" means all property fronting on one side of the street between intersecting or
intercepting streets, or between a street and a right-of-way, waterway, end of dead-end streets,
or political subdivision boundary, measured along the street line. An intercepting street shall
determine only the boundary of the frontage on the side of the street which it intercepts.



19.04.265 - Garage, private.

     "Private garage" means an accessory building designed or used for the storage of not more
than four automobiles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is accessory;
provided, that on a lot occupied by a multiple dwelling, the private garage may be designed and
used for the storage of one and one-half times as many automobiles as there are dwelling units
in the multiple dwelling. A garage shall be considered part of a dwelling if the garage and the
dwelling have a roof or wall in common. A private garage may not be used for storage of more



                                                                                        Page 15
than one truck for each family dwelling upon the premises, and no such truck shall exceed two
and one-half tons capacity.



19.04.270 - Garage, public.

    "Public garage" means a building or portion thereof, other than a private garage, designed or
used for servicing, repairing, equipping, hiring, selling or storing motor-driven vehicles.



19.04.275 - Grade.

    "Grade" means the lowest point of elevation of the finished surface of the ground, paving or
sidewalk within the area between the building and the property line or, when the property line is
more than five feet from the building, between the building and a line five-feet from the building.



19.04.277 - Graffiti.

     "Graffiti" means inscriptions, drawings, paintings or other visual defacing of buildings,
structures or natural features, without the consent of the owner thereof, and which is not otherwise
authorized and permitted in the Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township ordinances.



19.04.280 - Guest.

    "Guest" means a transient person who rents or occupies a room for sleeping purposes.



19.04.285 - Guestroom.

    "Guestroom" means a room which is designed for double occupancy by guests, for sleeping
purposes.



19.04.290 - Guest house.

    "Guest house" means a separate dwelling structure located on a lot with one or more main
dwelling structures and used for housing of guests or servants, and not rented, leased or sold
separate from the rental, lease or sale of the main dwelling.




                                                                                            Page 16
19.04.293 - Home day care/preschool.

     "Home day care/preschool" means the keeping for care and/or preschool instruction of twelve
or less children including the caregiver's own children under the age of six and not yet in full day
school within an occupied dwelling and yard. (State regulations require two caregivers if there are
more than six children in a home day care and may further limit the number of children allowed in
a home day care.) A home day care/preschool must meet the following standards:
    A.    When allowed as a permitted use there shall be a maximum of six children without any
         employees not residing in the dwelling. When allowed as a conditional use there shall
         be a maximum of twelve children with not more than one employee at any one time not
         residing in the dwelling;
    B.   The use shall comply with the health department noise regulations;
    C.    The play yard shall not be located in the front yard and shall only be used between eight
         a.m. and nine p.m.;
    D.    The lot shall contain one available on-site parking space not required for use of the
         dwelling, and an additional available on-site parking space not required for use of the
         dwelling for any employee not residing in the dwelling. The location of the parking shall
         be approved by the development services division director to ensure that the parking is
         functional and does not change the residential character of the lot;
    E.   No signs shall be allowed on the dwelling or lot except a nameplate sign;
    F.   The use shall comply with all local, state and federal laws and regulations. (The Life
         Safety Code includes additional requirements if there are more than six children);
    G.     Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this section or any other countymetro
         township ordinance are being violated by a home day care/preschool caregiver, the
         countymetro township shall review the complaint and if substantiated may institute a
         license revocation proceeding under Section 5.14.020; and
    H.    The caregiver shall notify in writing, on a form provided by the development services
         division, all property owners within a three hundred foot radius of the caregiver's property
         concerning the licensing of a home day care/preschool at such property.



19.04.300 - Hotel.

   "Hotel" means a building designed for or occupied by sixteen or more guests who are for
compensation lodged, with or without meals.



19.04.310 - Intensity.

     "Intensity" means the concentration of activity, such as a combination of the number of
people, cars, visitors, customers, hours of operation, outdoor advertising, etc.; also, the size of
buildings or structures, the most-intense being higher, longer and/or wider.




                                                                                             Page 17
19.04.315 - Junk.

A.    "Junk" means any salvaged or scrap copper, brass, iron, steel, metal, rope, rags, batteries,
     paper, wood, trash, plastic, rubber, tires, waste or other articles or materials commonly
     designated as junk. Junk, except as provided in subsections (B) or (C), shall also mean any
     dismantled, wrecked or inoperable motor vehicles or recreational vehicles or parts thereof
     which are stored or parked on property outside of an enclosed building and which remain in
     such condition for a period of time in excess of sixty days. An automobile, truck or bus shall
     be considered inoperable if it is not currently registered and licensed in this state or another
     state.
B.    One truck with a capacity of one ton or less or automobile which is not currently licensed and
     registered in this state or another state but is otherwise operable may be stored on property
     for a period not to exceed two years if it is secured with the windows closed, the trunk and
     hood closed and the doors locked and is not damaged exposing jagged metal; or
C.    One truck with a capacity of one ton or less or automobile which is inoperable may be stored
     in a side yard, except a side yard which faces on a street or a rear yard on property for a
     period not to exceed two years provided:
     1.   The automobile or truck is secured with the windows closed, the trunk and hood closed
          and the doors locked and is not damaged exposing jagged metal; and
     2.   The automobile or truck shall not be visible from any public street; and
     3.   The automobile or truck is entirely concealed by a covering which is maintained in good
          condition and which does not extend closer to the ground than the lowest point of the
          vehicle body.
D.    All existing legal nonconforming motor vehicles as of the effective date of the ordinance
     codified in this section, or any amendment hereto, shall comply with the provisions of this
     section within one year from the date of the enactment of this section or any amendment
     thereto.



19.04.320 - Junkyard.

     "Junkyard" means the use of any lot, portion of a lot, or tract of land for the sale, storage,
keeping, disassembly or abandonment of junk or discarded or salvaged material, provided that
this definition shall be deemed not to include such uses which are clearly accessory and incidental
to any agricultural use permitted in the zone.



19.04.325 - Kennel.

     "Kennel" means the keeping of three or more dogs, at least four months old.



19.04.330 – Lodging house.



                                                                                             Page 18
   "Lodging house" means a building where lodging only is provided for compensation of five or
more, but not exceeding fifteen persons.



19.04.335 - Lot.

     "Lot" means a parcel of land occupied by a building or group of buildings, together with such
yards, open spaces, lot width and lot areas as are required by this title, having frontage upon a
street or upon a right-of-way approved by a land use hearing officer, or upon a right-of-way not
less than twenty feet wide. Except for group dwellings and guest houses, not more than one
dwelling structure shall occupy one lot.



19.04.340 - Lot, corner.

    "Corner lot" means a lot abutting on two intersecting or intercepting streets, where the interior
angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred thirty-five degrees.



19.04.345 - Lot, interior.

     "Interior lot" means a lot other than a corner lot.



19.04.350 - Mobile home or manufactured home.

A.    "Mobile home" or "manufactured home" means a structure transportable in one or more
     sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use as a dwelling with or
     without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.
B.    The requirements of this title shall not be construed to prevent the storage of a mobile home
     in the rear yard of a dwelling structure. A mobile home so stored may be temporarily used for
     sleeping purposes by members or guests of the family residing in the dwelling structure, but
     the mobile home shall not be connected to utilities or used for residential purposes unless
     approved by the planning commission as a temporary use incidental to construction work.
C.    Except as provided herein and in Section 19.76.290, a mobile home shall not be used for
     residential or sleeping purposes unless the mobile home is located in an approved mobile
     home park or an approved mobile home subdivision.



19.04.355 - Mobile home park.

    "Mobile home park" means any plot of ground upon which two or more mobile homes,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes, are located, regardless of whether or not a charge is
made for such accommodation, pursuant to the mobile home park ordinance.


                                                                                             Page 19
19.04.360 - Mobile store.

     "Mobile store" means a portable structure, including vehicles, without a permanent
foundation, for use on a temporary or seasonal basis, from which goods or merchandise are sold
or where a service is provided which is utilized on the premises. Approval for each mobile store
shall not exceed one hundred twenty days per calendar year at the same location or within two
hundred fifty feet of a previously approved location.



19.04.365 - Natural waterways.

     "Natural waterways" means those areas varying in width along streams, creeks, gullies,
springs or washes which are natural drainage channels, as determined by the building inspector,
and in which areas no building shall be constructed.



19.04.370 - Neighborhood storage.

    "Neighborhood storage" means a building not served by sewer, water or gas utilities and
used exclusively for storing personal property of an individual or family, retail business inventory
items, and business records and accounts.



19.04.375 - New construction.

     "New construction" means structures for which the "start of construction" commenced on or
after the effective date of the ordinance codified in Chapter 19.74 of this title, on floodplain hazard
regulations.



19.04.380 - Noncomplying structure.

    "Noncomplying structure" means a building or other structure or portion thereof lawfully
constructed in compliance with the zoning ordinance existing at the time of construction, that no
longer conforms to the height, area and/or yard regulations in the zone in which it is located due
to changes to the zoning ordinance or to subsequent public acquisition of land for public
improvements.



19.04.385 - Nonconforming use.




                                                                                               Page 20
     "Nonconforming use" means a use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the time the
ordinance codified in this title became effective and which does not conform with the use
regulations of the zone in which it is located.



19.04.390 - Nursing home.

    "Nursing home" means an establishment where persons are lodged and furnished with meals
and nursing care.



19.04.395 - Organic disposal site.

     "Organic disposal site" means a disposal site where settled or precipitated solid matter
produced by water and sewage treatment processes is disposed of in compliance with the board
of health requirements, using sanitary land-filling techniques, in a manner that does not create a
nuisance or health hazard, that protects the environment, and will not cause a pollution source of
water, air, etc.



19.04.400 - Package agency.

    "Package agency" means a retail liquor location operated under a contractual agreement with
the state department of alcoholic beverage control, by a person other than the state, who is
authorized by the state of Utah alcoholic beverage control commission to sell package liquor for
consumption off the premises of the agency.



19.04.405 - Parking lot.

    "Parking lot" means an open area, other than a street, used for parking of more than four
automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for compensation, or as an
accommodation for clients or customers.



19.04.410 - Parking space.

    "Parking space" means space within a building, lot or parking lot for the parking or storage of
one automobile.



19.04.415 - Permitted use.




                                                                                           Page 21
    "Permitted use" means a use of land for which no conditional use permit is required.



19.04.420 - Planned unit development.

   "Planned unit development" means a complete development plan for an area pursuant to
Chapter 19.78 of this title.



19.04.421 - Planning commission.

    "Planning commission" means the Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township planning
commission, except in areas where a township exists, planning commission shall mean the
township planning commission.



19.04.425 - Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that
ordinarily given in public schools.

     "Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given
in public schools" means private training schools and other private schools which are instructional
in nature, including laboratory and shop instruction with the use of demonstration vehicles,
products or models incidental to such instruction, but not including the repair, maintenance or
manufacture of vehicles, goods or merchandise, not providing direct services other than
instruction to the general public.



19.04.430 - Private nonprofit locker club.

     "Private nonprofit locker club" means a social club, recreational, athletic or kindred
association incorporated under the provisions of the Utah Nonprofit Corporation and Cooperation
Act, which maintains or intends to maintain premises upon which liquor is or will be stored,
consumed or sold.



19.04.435 - Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities.

    "Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities" means nonprofit recreational grounds
and facilities operated by an association incorporated under the provisions of the Utah Nonprofit
Corporation and Cooperation Act, or a corporated sole.



19.04.437 - Protected living arrangement.



                                                                                             Page 22
    "Protected living arrangement" means provision for food, shelter, appropriate sleeping
accommodations, and supervision of activities of daily living for persons of any age who are
unable to independently maintain these basic needs and functions.



19.04.440 - Public use.

    "Public use" means a use operated exclusively by a public body, or quasi-public body, such
use having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or general welfare, and including uses
such as public schools, parks, playgrounds and other recreational facilities, administrative and
service facilities, and public utilities.



19.04.445 - Quasi-public use.

    "Quasi-public use" means a use operated by a private nonprofit educational, religious,
recreational, charitable or philanthropic institution, such use having the purpose primarily of
serving the general public, such as churches, private schools and universities, and similar uses.



19.04.447 - Rail transit mixed-use.

     "Rail transit mixed-use" means a use which allows rail-oriented development that combines
different land uses within a single development, tract of land, building, or structure. Its purpose is
to encourage development that is high quality, human scale, and pedestrian friendly, while
creating a variety of complementary and integrated uses, such as, but not limited to, residential,
office, manufacturing, retail, public, or entertainment, in a compact walkable urban form.



19.04.448 - Recreation, commercial.

     "Commercial recreation" means recreational facilities operated as a business and open to
the general public for a fee, such as golf driving ranges and baseball batting ranges.



19.04.449 - Reiki business.

     "Reiki business" means a business devoted primarily to Reiki healing, or any other system
that has elements of the following. The practitioner, trained to access and serve as a channel for
a sacred life force, places his or her hands on or just above the client's body in order to activate
healing energy within receptive points on the body. The practitioner's hands move progressively
with a passive touch through various positions on the body, remaining in each position for a period
of time. As a harmonic flow of energy is strengthened, within the client and practitioner, healing
occurs through the return of physical, mental and spiritual balance. For purposes of this title, a



                                                                                              Page 23
Reiki business shall not include Reiki healing, or similar system, which arc performed in a hospital
or medical clinic.



19.04.451 - Residential facility for elderly persons.

A.    "Residential facility for elderly persons" means a single-family or multiple-family dwelling unit
     that is occupied twenty-four hours a day in a family-type arrangement by eight or fewer elderly
     persons sixty years old or older capable of living independently.
B.    Such facility shall be owned by one of the residents or by an immediate family member of
     one of the residents or the title has been placed in trust for a resident.
C.    Placement in such facility is on a voluntary basis and may not be a part of, or in lieu of,
     confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in a correctional institution.
D.   No person being treated for alcoholism or drug abuse may be placed in such a facility.
E.    The structure shall be capable of use without the residential character being changed by
     exterior structural or landscaping alterations.
F.   Each facility shall not be located within three-quarters mile of another residential facility for
     elderly persons or residential facility for handicapped persons.
G.    This use is nontransferable and terminates if the structure is devoted to a use other than a
     residential facility for elderly persons or if the structure fails to comply with applicable health,
     safety, and building codes.



19.04.452 - Residential facility for persons with a disability.

     "Residential facility for persons with a disability" means a residence:
     A.   In which more than one person with a disability resides; and
     B.     Is (1) licensed or certified by the Department of Human Services under Title 62A,
          Chapter 2, Licensure of Programs and Facilities, Utah Code, Unannotated; or (2)
          licensed or certified by the Department of Health under Title 26, Chapter 21, Health Care
          Facility Licensing and Inspection Act, Utah Code, Unannotated.



19.04.455 - Resort hotel.

     "Resort hotel" means a building or group of buildings, other than a motel, boardinghouse or
lodging house, containing individual guestrooms, suites of guestrooms, dwelling units, and which
furnishes services customarily provided by hotels.



19.04.457 - Resource recycling collection point.



                                                                                                 Page 24
    "Resource recycling collection point" means a portable structure, enclosed bin, trailer, or
reverse vending machine where recyclable material (aluminum cans, glass, paper, etc.) is
exchanged for money or deposited as a donation. Approval is not to exceed twelve months without
reapproval.



19.04.460 - Restaurant.

    "Restaurant" means a place of business where a variety of hot food is prepared, cooked and
complete meals are served to the general public for consumption on the premises primarily in
indoor dining accommodations.



19.04.462 - Restaurant liquor license.

     "Restaurant liquor license" means a public restaurant authorized by the state alcoholic
beverage control commission as a liquor outlet allowing the storage, sale and consumption of
liquor and alcohol on the premises.



19.04.465 - Sanitary landfill.

     "Sanitary landfill" means a land disposal site where solid waste is disposed of using sanitary
landfilling techniques, including but not limited to an engineered method of disposing of solid
waste on land in a manner that does not create a nuisance or health hazard and that protects the
environment, by spreading the waste in thin layers, compacting it to the smallest practical volume,
confining it to the smallest practical area, and covering it with soil by the end of each working day
or as often as may be directed by the board of health.



19.04.470 - School.

    "School" means an institution recognized as satisfying the requirements of public education
and having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools. Home
occupations represented as schools shall not apply (dance, music, crafts, child nurseries, etc.).



19.04.475 - Shopping center.

    "Shopping center" means a group of architecturally unified commercial establishments built
on a site which is planned, developed, owned and managed as an operating unit.




                                                                                             Page 25
19.04.480 - Sportsman's kennel.

    "Sportsman's kennel" means a kennel for the keeping of three to five dogs which has a valid
permit from the department of animal services and is located on a lot of at least one acre.



19.04.485 - Stable, private.

     "Private stable" means a detached accessory building for the keeping of horses owned by
the occupants of the premises, and not kept for remuneration, hire or sale.



19.04.490 - Stable, public.

    "Public stable" means a stable other than a private stable.



19.04.495 - Start of construction.

     "Start of construction" includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building
permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction, placement or
other improvement was within one hundred eighty days of the permit date. The actual start means
either the first placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring
of slabs or footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the
stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. "Permanent
construction" does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling; nor does it
include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement,
footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation
on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units
or not as part of the main structure.



19.04.500 - State store.

     "State store" means a facility for the sale of package liquor located on the premises owned
or leased by the state and operated by state employees. This term shall not apply to restaurants,
private clubs or package agencies.



19.04.505 - Story.

     "Story" means that portion of a building included between the upper surface of any floor and
the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost story shall be that portion of a
building included between the upper surface of the topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If
the finished floor level directly above a usable or unused underfloor space is more than six feet


                                                                                               Page 26
above grade for more than fifty percent of the total perimeter or is more than twelve feet above
grade at any point, such usable or unused underfloor space shall be considered as a story.



19.04.507 - Story, first.

     "First story" means the lowest story in a building which qualifies as a story, except that a floor
level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified as a first story, provided such floor
level is not more than four feet below grade for more than fifty percent of the total perimeter, or
not more than eight feet below grade at any point.



19.04.510 - Story, half.

     "Half story" means a story with at least two of its opposite sides situated in a sloping roof, the
floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds of the floor immediately below it.



19.04.515 - Street.

    "Street" means a thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the public and
accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare, not less than twenty-five feet wide, which
has been made public by right of use and which affords the principal means of access to abutting
property.



19.04.520 - Structure.

     "Structure" means anything constructed or erected which requires location on the ground or
attached to something having a location on the ground.



19.04.525 - Structural alterations.

    "Structural alterations" means any change in supporting members of a building or structure,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders.



19.04.530 - Studios.

    "Studios" means a facility used for the instruction of specialized talents or skills.




                                                                                                 Page 27
19.04.535 - Substantial improvement.

A.    "Substantial improvement" means any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure,
     the cost of which equals or exceeds fifty percent of the market value of the structure, either:
     1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
     2.   If the structure is damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.
B.    For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the
     first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural part of the building commences,
     whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.
C.   The term does not, however, include either:
     1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
          sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living
          conditions; or
     2.    Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a State
          Inventory of Historic Places.



19.04.540 - Tanning studio.

    "Tanning studio" means any business which uses artificial lighting systems to produce a tan
on an individual's body. This use specifically excludes spas, gymnasiums, athletic clubs, health
clubs, and any exercise equipment.



19.04.545 - Tourist court.

     "Tourist court" means any building or group of buildings containing sleeping rooms, with or
without fixed cooking facilities, designed for temporary use by automobile tourists or transients,
with garage attached or parking space conveniently located at each unit, including auto courts,
motels or motor lodges.



19.04.547 - Short-term rental.

A.    "Short-term rental" means any dwelling or portion thereof that is available for use or is used
     for accommodations or lodging of guests, paying a fee or other compensation for a period of
     less than thirty consecutive days.
B.   A short-term rental shall not contain more than four bedrooms.
C.   A short-term rental shall be maintained to the following minimum standards:
     1.   Structures shall be properly maintained, painted and kept in good repair, and grounds
          and landscaped areas shall be properly maintained and watered in order that the use in
          no way detracts from the general appearance of the neighborhood; and



                                                                                              Page 28
     2.    Required parking areas and access to parking areas shall be maintained and available
          for use at all times. Parking for this use shall be contained on the site, and shall not be
          allowed on the public rights-of-way; and
     3.    Snow shall be removed from sidewalks and driveways within one hour after the snow
          has ceased falling, provided that in case of a storm between the hours of five p.m. in the
          afternoon and six a.m. in the morning, the sidewalk shall be cleaned before eight a.m.
          the morning following the storm.
D.    Occupants of a short-term rental shall not create excessive noise that is incompatible with
     adjacent land uses.
E.   A short-term rental use shall not have any signs on the premises that advertise the use.
F.   The use of a dwelling as a short-term rental shall not change the appearance of the dwelling
     or property for residential purposes.
G.    Outdoor pools, hot tubs or spas shall not be used between the hours of ten p.m. and eight
     a.m.



19.04.550 - Use, accessory.

   "Accessory use" means a subordinate use customarily incidental to and located upon the
same lot occupied by a main use.



19.04.551 - Vehicle, commercial.

     "Commercial vehicle" means any motorized vehicle or trailer used for or intended for business
use - including but not limited to the transportation of commercial equipment, merchandise,
produce, freight, commodities, passengers, or animals - and which is characterized by any of the
following:
     A.    Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts, bulldozers, and
          the like, which are commonly used for construction, excavation, demolition, or lifting;
          vehicles used to haul equipment or materials, such as dump trucks, tanker trucks, semi-
          tractors, semi-trailers, cement trucks, or other similar vehicle.
     B.   Pickup trucks over one ton with a commercial modification, such as a flat bed, a dumping
          mechanism, mechanical lifts or arms for loading and unloading materials/equipment,
          aerial buckets or platforms, or other similar feature.
     C.   Vehicles with more than two axles.
     D.   Vehicles that exceed eight feet in height.



19.04.553 - Vehicle, private.




                                                                                             Page 29
     "Private vehicle" means an automobile, sport utility, crossover, pickup truck, motorcycle, or
similar motorized device in which a person or thing is, or can be, transported from one place to
another, except commercial or recreational vehicles as defined in this chapter.



19.04.554 - Vehicle, recreational.

     "Recreational vehicle" means a vehicle, snowmobile, trailer, camper, or watercraft with or
without a motor, designed and constructed for recreational use or as temporary living quarters for
travel or vacation purposes. "Recreational vehicle" does not include human or battery powered
personal apparatuses, such as bicycles, kick-scooters, or children's toys.



19.04.555 - Width of lot.

     "Width of lot" means the distance between the side lot lines and the distance back from the
front lot line required for the depth of the front yard.



19.04.560 - Yard.

    "Yard" means a space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward by buildings or structures, except as follows:
    A.    Fences;
    B.    Canopies allowed under subsection B of Section 19.80.120;
    C.    Accessory buildings in a rear yard;
    D.    The ordinary projections of windows where the projection is at least eighteen inches
         above floor level, roofs, cornices, chimneys, flues and other ornamental features which
         project into a yard not more than three feet;
    E.    Open or lattice-enclosed exterior stairways, located in a commercial or manufacturing
         zone, projecting into a yard not more than five feet;
    F.    Structures less than eighteen inches in height from the finished ground surface.



19.04.565 - Yard, front.

     "Front yard" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the front line of the
building and the front lot line and extending across the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the front
yard is the minimum distance between the front lot line and the front line of the building.



19.04.570 - Yard, rear.


                                                                                                Page 30
     "Rear yard" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the rear line of the
building and the rear lot line and extending the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the rear yard is
the minimum distance between the rear lot line and the rear line of the building.



19.04.575 - Yard, side.

     "Side yard" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the side line of the
building and the side lot line and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The "width" of the
side yard shall be the minimum distance between the side lot line and the side line of the building.



Chapter 19.05 - PLANNING COMMISSION




19.05.005 - Planning commission jurisdiction.

     The county-wide planning commission has jurisdiction over all unincorporated areas located
within the boundaries of the countymetro township except for those areas within established
townships, which are administered pursuant to the provisions of Section 19.05.060, and the area
within the Mountainous Planning District, which is administered pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 19.07.



19.05.010 - Appointment—Term.

     The planning commission for the unincorporated areas of Salt Lake Countymetro township
shall consist of five members and up to two alternate members appointed and approved by the
mayormetro township council with the advice and consent of the county council. Members shall
serve three-year terms or longer until successors are appointed. Terms shall commence on March
1st of each year. In the event a term of a member shall expire before a successor is appointed,
the member shall continue to serve until a successor is appointed. Terms of at least one member,
and not more than two, shall expire each year. The members and alternate members of the
planning commission shall be registered voters residing in any unincorporated or incorporated
area of the countymetro township with the provision that at least three of the regular members of
the planning commission be residents of unincorporated Salt Lake County.



19.05.020 - Vacancy—Removal.

     Any vacancy occurring on the planning commission by reason of death, resignation, removal            Commented [DR3]: This section has been returned to its
or disqualification shall be filled by the mayor with the advice and consent of the council for the       original wording. (The suggested wording said “metro
unexpired term of such member. The mayor with the advice and consent of the county council                township council” however that suggestions was made
                                                                                                          before there were township Mayor’s).


                                                                                               Page 31
may remove a member of the planning commission for cause after filing written charges against
the member. The member shall be provided with a hearing on the charges if requested.



19.05.030 - Organization—Procedures.

    The planning commission shall elect a chairperson from its members who shall serve a one-
year term. The planning commission may create and fill any other necessary offices it deems
necessary and may adopt policies and procedures for the conduct of its meetings, the processing
of applications, and for any other purpose the planning commission considers necessary for its
proper function.



19.05.040 - Powers and duties.

    The planning commission shall:
    A.    Prepare and recommend a general plan and amendments to the general plan to the
         county metro township council;
    B.   Recommend zoning ordinances and maps and amendments to zoning ordinances and
         maps to the county metro township council;
    C.    Recommend subdivision ordinances and amendments to those ordinances to the
         county metro township council;
    D.    Recommend approval or denial of subdivision applications to the county metro township
         council;
    E.    Approve or deny conditional use permits;
    F.    Advise the county metro township council on matters that the council directs;
    G.    Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the county metro
         township council.



19.05.050 - Effect on present members.

     Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect the eligibility or qualifications to serve of
any of the present members of the planning commission whose terms have not expired or to affect
their eligibility for reappointment.



19.05.060 - Township planning commission.

    Pursuant to the provisions and requirements of Utah Code, Section 17-27a10-9a-301, et
seq., and county ordinance, Section 2.74.010, et seq., townships shall be deemed established
upon compliance with the Act and ordinance and upon appointment or election of township



                                                                                               Page 32
planning commission members. In addition to the seven elected and appointed township planning
commission members, the mayor, with the advice and consent of the county council, may appoint
up to two alternate members of a township planning commission. Alternate members must meet
the qualifications for regular planning commission members. The county planning commission
shall cease to exercise jurisdiction over all newly filed planning and zoning matters within areas
establishing townships on the day when election results are canvassed indicating the township
proposal passes. The township planning commissions shall have jurisdiction regarding all pending
and future planning and zoning matters and proceedings within the township area upon election
and appointment of the full commission. The following rules and procedures regarding township
planning commissions are established:
    A.    After a township is created, the duly elected and appointed township planning
         commission shall act as the planning commission within the township boundaries and
         shall:
         1.    Prepare and recommend amendments to the general plan, as it pertains to the
              township, to the county council;
         2.   Recommend to the county council amendments to existing zoning ordinances and
              maps affecting areas within the township;
         3.   Administer provisions of the zoning ordinance where specifically provided for in the
              zoning ordinance adopted by the county council;
         4.   Recommend to the county council amendments to existing subdivision regulations
              affecting areas within the township;
         5.    Recommend to the county mayor approval or denial of subdivision applications
              located within the township;
         6.   Approve or deny conditional use permits within the township;
         7.   Advise the county council on matters that the county council directs;
         8.    Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the county
              council.
    B.    The county council shall adopt such policies and procedures as it deems necessary to
         provide for:
         1.   The location, scheduling, and conduct of township planning commission meetings;
         2.   The processing of applications;
         3.   The provision of planning support staff;
         4.    The funding of necessary and reasonable expenses of township planning
              commissions; and
         5.    For any other purposes considered necessary for the functioning of township
              planning commissions.
    C.    The township board shall elect a chair and vice chair from among its members to sit for
         one year terms and may, by majority vote, adopt rules regarding its activities, which rules
         may not be in conflict with the Act or this chapter.
    D.    Unless otherwise provided by law, any vacancy occurring on a township planning
         commission by reason of death, resignation, removal or disqualification shall be filled by
         the mayor with the advice and consent of the county council for the unexpired term of



                                                                                            Page 33
         such member. Vacancies for elected board members shall be filled for the unexpired
         term of the member replaced except that if over two years remain in the unexpired term,
         the replacement shall stand for re-election in the next even-numbered year. The mayor
         with the advice and consent of the county council may remove for cause a member of a
         township planning commission which the council has appointed upon the filing of written
         charges against the member and after a hearing on the charges if requested by the
         member.



Chapter 19.06 - ZONES, MAPS, AND ZONE BOUNDARIES




19.06.010 - Zones established.

    For the purpose of this title, the countymetro township to which this title applies is divided into
classes of zones, as follows:

                          Forestry zone                                 F-1

                    Forestry multifamily zone                          FM-10          Eff. 8/19/75

                    Forestry multifamily zone                          FM-20          Eff. 8/19/75

                  Forestry and recreation zone                        FR-0.5          Eff. 8/19/75

                  Forestry and recreation zone                         FR-1           Eff. 8/19/75

                  Forestry and recreation zone                        FR-2.5         Eff. 10/21/87

                  Forestry and recreation zone                         FR-5           Eff. 8/19/75

                  Forestry and recreation zone                         FR-10          Eff. 8/19/75

                  Forestry and recreation zone                         FR-20          Eff. 8/19/75

                  Forestry and recreation zone                         FR-50          Eff. 8/19/75

                  Forestry and recreation zone                        FR-100          Eff. 8/19/75

                        Residential zone                               R-1-3




                                                                                               Page 34
Residential zone     R-1-4    Eff. 8/19/82

Residential zone     R-1-5    Eff. 8/19/82

Residential zone     R-1-6

Residential zone     R-1-7    Eff. 1/28/77

Residential zone     R-1-8

Residential zone    R-1-10

Residential zone    R-1-15    Eff. 2/1/80

Residential zone    R-1-21

Residential zone    R-1-43

Residential zone    R-2-6.5

Residential zone     R-2-8

Residential zone    R-2-10

Residential zone    R-2-10C

Residential zone    R-4-8.5

Residential zone     S-1-G

Residential zone     R-M

Residential zone     RMH      Eff. 5/15/80

Agricultural zone     A-1

Agricultural zone     A-2

Agricultural zone     A-5     Eff. 2/19/71

Agricultural zone    A-10     Eff. 2/19/71



                                      Page 35
                     Agricultural zone              A-20     Eff. 2/19/71

                 Foothill agricultural zone         FA-2.5   Eff. 7/15/82

                 Foothill agricultural zone         FA-5     Eff. 7/15/82

                 Foothill agricultural zone         FA-10    Eff. 7/15/82

                 Foothill agricultural zone         FA-20    Eff. 7/15/82

                 Mixed development zone             MD-1     Eff. 6/7/90

                 Mixed development zone             MD-3     Eff. 6/7/90

        Office research park and development zone   O-R-D

                     Commercial zone                 C-1

                     Commercial zone                 C-V

                     Commercial zone                 C-2

                     Commercial zone                 C-3

                    Manufacturing zone               M-1

                    Manufacturing zone               M-2

                   Airport overlay zone             AOZ

            Foothills and canyons overlay zone      FCOZ

           Residential compatibility overlay zone   RCOZ




19.06.020 - Zoning maps.




                                                                     Page 36
       Each of the sections of the countymetro township which are amended or zoned by this title are
shown on the maps on file with the planning commissionmetro township council, and such maps are             Commented [DR4]: Copperton PC recommends that the
made by this reference, as such, a part of this title as if fully described and detailed herein.            maps be kept by the Metro Township Council or the Metro
                                                                                                            Service District




19.06.030 - Filing of this title and zoning maps.

    This title and the maps shall be filed in the custody of the county clerkmetro township council         Commented [DR5]: Copperton PC recommends the
and may be examined by the public subject to any reasonable regulations established by the                  ordinance and maps be kept by the Metro Township
county clerkmetro township council.                                                                         Council.




19.06.040 - Boundary location rules.

     Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of any zone, the following rules shall apply:
     A.   Wherever the zone boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the centerline of
          a street, alley or block, or along a property line, then, unless otherwise definitely indicated
          on the map, the centerline of the street, alley or block, or such property line, shall be
          construed to be the boundary of the zone;
     B.    Whenever such boundary line of such zone is indicated as being approximately at the
          line of any river, irrigation canal or other waterway or railroad right-of-way, or public park,
          or other public land, or any section line, then in such case the center of the stream, canal
          or waterway, or of the railroad right-of-way, or the boundary line of such public land or
          such section line shall be deemed to be the boundary of the zone;
     C.    Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the zone boundary location,
          the land use hearing officer shall interpret the map.



Chapter 19.07 - MOUNTAINOUS PLANNING DISTRICT AND PLANNING COMMISSION                                       Commented [DR6]: May want staff to do a presentation
                                                                                                            on why this chapter was created and whether or not it
                                                                                                            would be applicable to Copperton. Pending that
                                                                                                            presentation they have opted to leave this section in the
19.07.010 - Mountainous planning district area designated.                                                  code.


A.    Mountainous planning district map. The area of the mountainous planning district is hereby
     designated according to the mountainous planning district map that is on file with the county          Commented [DR7]: Will the area need to be defined at
     clerkmetro township council, and such map is made by this reference a part of this title as if         this time?
     fully described and detailed herein. The map of the mountainous planning district may be
     examined by the public subject to any reasonable regulations established by the county
     clerkmetro township council. All of the area within the mountainous planning district map
     meets the following criteria:                                                                          Commented [DR8]: Need to review the criteria…
     1.    The area is primarily used for recreational purposes, including canyons, foothills, ski
          resorts, wilderness areas, lakes and reservoirs, campgrounds, or picnic areas within the
          Wasatch Oquirrh Mountain Range;



                                                                                                 Page 37
     2.   The area is used by residents of the county who live inside and outside the limits of a
          municipality;
     3.   The total resident population in the mountainous planning district area is equal to or less
          than five percent of the population of the county; and
     4.   The area was within the unincorporated area of the county before May 12, 2015; and
     5.   The area includes land designated as part of a national forest on or before May 9, 2017.
B.    Boundary location rules. Where uncertainty exists as to the boundary of the mountainous
     planning district, the following rules shall apply:
     1.   Wherever the boundary is indicated as being approximately upon the centerline of a
          street, alley or block, or along a property line, then, unless otherwise definitely indicated
          on the map, the centerline of the street, alley or block, or such property line shall be
          construed to be the boundary of the mountainous planning district.
     2.   Whenever such boundary line of the mountainous planning district is indicated as being
          approximately at the line of any river, irrigation canal, or other waterway or railroad right-
          of-way, or public park, or other public land, or any section line, then in such cases the
          center of the stream, canal or waterway, or of the railroad right-of-way, or the boundary
          line of such public land or such section line shall be deemed to be the boundary of the
          mountainous planning district.
     3.   Where the application of the above rules does not clarify the mountainous planning
          district boundary location, the land use hearing officer shall interpret the map.



19.07.020 - Mountainous planning district planning commission.                                             Commented [DR9]: Copperton PC recommends that no
                                                                                                           additional/separate PC be created.
A.   Creation.
     1.   There is hereby created a mountainous planning district, consisting of the area described
          in Section 19.07.010 of this chapter.
     2.    There is hereby established a mountainous planning district planning commission
          ("planning commission").
B.   Powers and Duties. The planning commission shall have the following powers and duties:
     1.   Make and recommend to the county council a general plan and amendments to the
          general plan for the mountainous planning district;
     2.   Prepare and recommend to the county council land use ordinances and a zoning map
          and amendments thereto for the mountainous planning district;
     3.    Consider and recommend to the county council a subdivision ordinance and
          amendments thereto for areas within the mountainous planning district;
     4.    Recommend proposed application processes and the appropriate delegation of power
          to at least one land use authority and at least one appeal authority as provided in Section
          17-27a-302 of the Utah Code.
     5.   Act as the land use authority as provided in Section 19.07.030;
     6.   Advise the county council on matters that the county council directs;



                                                                                                Page 38
     7.   Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the county council.
C.   Membership, Appointment, Terms, Removal, and Vacancies:
     1.   The planning commission shall initially be composed of nine members appointed by the
          mayor with the advice and consent of the county council. After June 30, 2017, the nine
          members of the planning commission shall be appointed as follows:
          a.    Five of the nine members of the planning commission, filling positions on the
               planning commission identified as MPD planning commission seats 1 through 5,
               shall be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the county council.
          b.    Four of the nine members of the planning commission, filling positions on the
               planning commission identified as MPD planning commission seats A through D,
               shall be appointed as provided in Subsection (C)(2) below.
     2.   When there is a vacancy in one of the four planning commission seats designated in
          Subsection (C)(1)(b) of this section:
          a.    The mayor shall send a written request to the city associated in Subsection (C)(3)
               of this section with the vacant planning commission seat to provide a list of three
               individuals who satisfy the requirements of Section 17-27a-301(1)(c)(iii) to fill the
               vacancy.
          b.   The notified city shall respond to the written request within sixty days after the day
               on which the city receives the written request.
          c.   After the mayor receives the notified city's list of three individuals, the mayor shall
               select one individual from the list to be appointed with the advice and consent of the
               county council to fill the vacancy.
          d.    If the notified city fails to timely respond to the written request, the mayor may
               proceed to appoint any individual to fill the vacancy as provided in Subsection
               (C)(1)(a) of this section.
     3.    The following cities meet the requirements of Section 17-27a-301(7)(b) and are hereby
          designated to be notified of any vacancy occurring in the planning commission seats
          identified in Subsection (C)(1)(b) above as follows:
          a.   Salt Lake City - MPD planning commission seat A.
          b.   Millcreek - MPD planning commission seat B.
          c.   Cottonwood Heights - MPD planning commission seat C.
          d.   Sandy City - MPD planning commission seat D.
     4.    The mayor, with the advice and consent of the county council may also appoint up to
          two alternate members of the planning commission, filling positions on the planning
          commission identified as MPD alternate 1 and MPD alternate 2. Alternate members must
          meet the qualifications as the other planning commission members.
     5.    All members of the planning commission shall serve a term of three years, except that
          in the case of the first planning commission appointed under the provisions of this
          section, three members shall be appointed for an initial term of one year, three members
          shall be appointed for an initial term of two years, and the remaining three members shall
          be appointed to serve a full three-year term. Any alternate members of the planning
          commission shall be appointed to serve a term of four years. In the event a term of a
          member shall expire without a successor having been appointed, the member shall


                                                                                              Page 39
          continue to serve until a successor has been appointed and the term of the successor
          shall terminate on the same day as though the successor was appointed in a timely
          manner. Any vacancy created during the term of a member shall be filled for only the
          remainder of the unexpired portion of that term. No member shall serve more than two
          consecutive full terms.
     6.   The planning commission shall elect a chair and vice chair from among its members to
          sit for one year terms and may, by majority vote, adopt rules regarding its activities, which
          rules may not be in conflict with the Land Use, Management and Development Act, Utah
          Code Ann. §17-27a-101 et. seq., or this chapter. The chair shall be considered for
          purposes of establishing a quorum and shall act as a voting member.
     7.    Except as provided in Subsection (C)(2) of this section, any vacancy occurring on the
          planning commission by reason of death, resignation, removal or disqualification shall
          be filled by the mayor with the advice and consent of the county council for the unexpired
          term of such member.
     8.   The mayor with advice and consent of the county council may remove for cause any
          member of the planning commission upon the filing of written charges against the
          member and after a public hearing on the charges conducted by a hearing officer
          appointed by the mayor if requested by the member.
     9.   Quorum: No meeting of the planning commission shall be official or of any effect except
          when a quorum of the members are present. Five members of the planning commission
          shall constitute a quorum. All actions shall require the concurring vote of a majority of
          the members present, unless stricter voting procedures are established by the planning
          commission.
D.   Qualifications for Membership:
     1.    Planning commission members must be registered voters who reside either in the
          unincorporated or incorporated areas of Salt Lake County.
     2.   At least one planning commission member shall reside within the mountainous planning
          district and another planning commission member shall either reside or own property
          within the mountainous planning district.
     3.    Planning commission members shall represent areas located in the unincorporated and
          incorporated county. In appointing planning commission members, the mayor and county
          council shall endeavor to provide as much geographically balanced representation as is
          practicable.
E.    Jurisdiction: The planning commission shall have jurisdiction regarding all pending and future
     planning and zoning matters and proceedings within the mountainous planning district area,
     including areas of the mountainous planning district that are also located within a municipality
     or are unincorporated.
F.   Meetings:
     1.   The planning commission shall establish a regular meeting schedule.
     2.   The planning commission must comply with Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public
          Meetings Act.
G.    Reporting: The planning commission shall submit a report that summarizes actions it has
     taken and any recommendations regarding the mountainous planning district to the Utah
     State Legislature's Natural Resources, Agriculture, and Environment Interim Committee by


                                                                                               Page 40
     no later than November 30 of each year as required by Section 17-27a-901(3) of the Utah
     Code, as amended.



19.07.030 - Land use authority.

A.     Land use authority designation. Except as otherwise provided herein, the planning
     commission is designated as the land use authority pursuant to state law as provided in this
     title and is authorized to act to the same extent as any other planning commission under this
     Code, including for the following land use applications:
     1.   Mobile home parks as provided in Title 15, Chapter 24;
     2.   Subdivisions as provided in Title 18, Chapter 08;
     3.   Preliminary plats as provided in Title 18, Chapter 12;
     4.   Planned unit developments as provided in Title 19, Chapter 78;
     5.   Conditional use permits as provided in Title 19, Chapter 84;
     6.   Modifications to designated county historical sites as set forth in Title 19, Chapter 86;
     7.   Nonconforming uses and special exceptions as set forth in Title 19, Chapter 88.



Chapter 19.08 - F-1 FORESTRY ZONE                                                                      Commented [DR10]: Copperton PC recommends that
                                                                                                       this section remain in the ordinance with the modification
                                                                                                       shown.

19.08.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the F-1 zone is to permit limited residential development as well as utilization
and preservation of the natural environment and resources of the canyon areas in Salt Lake
County.



19.08.020 - Permitted uses.

     Permitted uses in the F-1 zone include:
          — Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the below;
          — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
          — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
          — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
          — Single-family dwelling.




                                                                                             Page 41
19.08.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the F-1 zone include:
        — Agriculture; the keeping of animals and fowl for family food production; grazing and
    pasturing of animals;
        — Airport;
        — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
        — Day care/preschool center (subject to Section 19.76.260);
        — Dude ranch;
         — Farm devoted to raising (including slaughtering, dressing and marketing as incident
    to raising) beaver and nutria;
        — Forest industry; production of forest products;
        — Golf course;
        — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
        — Hydroelectric dam;
        — Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;
        — Planned unit development;
        — Private park and recreational grounds; private recreational camp or resort;
        — Public and quasi-public use;
        — Radio and/or television tower;
        — Residential facility for elderly persons;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
    removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
    removed within ninety days upon completion of construction and thirty days after notice, the
    building will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner;
        — Underground record storage vaults;
        — Water pumping plant and reservoir.



19.08.040 - Lot area.

    The minimum area for any dwelling in the F-1 zone shall be not less than twenty thousand
square feet. The minimum lot area for any conditional use shall be determined by the planning
commission. In no case shall the minimum area for a conditional use be less than one acre.



19.08.050 - Lot width.

    The minimum width for any dwelling lot in the F-1 zone shall be seventy-five feet.


                                                                                         Page 42
19.08.060 - Front yard.

     In the F-1 zone, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings and for private garages
which have a minimum side yard of eight feet shall be fifteen feet for lots facing on a state highway
and five fifteen feet for lots facing on a county road. All accessory buildings other than private
garages which have a minimum side yard shall be located at least six feet in the rear of the main
building.



19.08.070 - Side yard.

     In the F-1 zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet, and the total width
of the two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen feet. Other main buildings shall have
a minimum side yard of twenty feet, and the total width of the two side yards shall be not less than
forty feet. The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except that private
garages and other accessory buildings located in the rear and at least six feet away from the main
building may have a minimum side yard of one foot three feet, provided that no private garage or
other accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On
corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street for both main and accessory buildings shall be
not less than fifteen feet on state highways or eight fifteen feet on other streets.



19.08.080 - Rear yard.

     In the F-1 zone, the minimum rear yard for a main building shall be twenty-five feet, and for
accessory buildings one foot three feet, provided that on corner lots which rear upon the side yard
of another lot, accessory buildings shall be located not closer than eight feet to such side yard.



19.08.090 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed
     the following height:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen
          percent or the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be
          determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of
          elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the building or
          structure. The box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line,
          whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or structure. The elevation
          shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval
          of two feet;
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
B.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.



                                                                                             Page 43
Chapter 19.10 - FM-10 AND FM-20 FORESTRY MULTIFAMILY ZONES



19.10.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the forestry multifamily zones is to permit development of certain areas in the
foothill and canyon areas of the county for high-density residential, limited commercial, and other
specified uses to the extent that such development is compatible with the protection of the natural
and scenic resources of these areas for the continued benefit of future generations.



19.10.020 - Permitted uses.

     The following uses are permitted in the FM-10 and FM-20 zones subject to compliance with
all applicable requirements set forth in this chapter including those relating to site and lot
dimensions, development standards, and other regulations:
    A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to permitted use;
    B.   Agriculture, as defined in Section 19.04.020;
    C.   Home day care/preschool for six or fewer children subject to the conditions set forth in
         Section 19.04.293;
    D.   Class B beer outlet;
    E.   Minor ski resort improvements, provided:
         1.    That the privately-owned land areas on which such improvements are permitted
              constitute less than ten percent of the total land area utilized for the ski resort that
              the improvements support, and
         2.    That at least ninety percent of the land area on which the improvements are
              developed, operated, and maintained is on public lands, and
         3.    That the public agency responsible for the management and administration of such
              lands has approved a special use permit or similar regulatory authorization, and has
              assumed long-term administrative and enforcement responsibilities for such
              approvals, and
         4.    That opportunities for public notice, review, and comment on the proposed
              improvements have been provided through a finalized National Environmental
              Policy Act (NEPA) or other comprehensive public review and comment process, and
         5.   That such improvements are either;
              a.   Essential to public safety, or
              b.    Required in association with the reasonable repair or maintenance of existing
                   legally-established facilities and improvements, or
              c.   Essential to the continuation or extension of improvements expressly approved
                   under the terms of a governmental land lease or use permit or by final action of


                                                                                              Page 44
                  the federal or state governmental agency with jurisdiction over the lands on
                  which the improvements are located;
    F.   Residential facility for elderly persons;
    G.    Residential facility for persons with a disability;
    H.    Restaurant liquor license;
    I.   Single-family dwellings;
    J.   Wireless telecommunication facilities, provided:
         1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is a wall-mounted or roof-mounted facility,
              and
         2.   The facility is mounted on a nonresidential building, and
         3.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as
              part of the required site plan, and
         4.    All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless
              Telecommunications Facilities," are satisfied.



19.10.030 - Conditional uses.

    The following conditional uses are subject to the requirements of this chapter, all general and
specific conditions, criteria, and approval procedures set forth in Chapter 19.84, "Conditional
Uses," and, for properties situated within the foothills and canyons overlay zone, the procedures
and provisions of Chapter 19.72, "Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone" and Chapter 19.73,
"Foothills and Canyons Site Development and Design Standards."
     The development services director may review and approve conditional use permits for ski
resort facilities and improvements which satisfy the criteria set forth in subparts (E)(1) through
(E)(4) of Section 19.10.020 of this chapter. In granting such approval within a foothills and canyon
overlay zone, the development services director may waive and/or modify the regulations of
Chapters 19.72 and 19.73 of this title in accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in
Section 19.72.060, "Administration and enforcement."
     Ski resort facilities and improvements which do not satisfy the criteria of Section 19.10.020,
subparts (E)(1) through (E)(4) of this chapter, as well as those which are referred to the planning
commission by the development services director in accordance with Section 19.84.080
provisions of this title, shall be subject to review and approval by the planning commission. In its
consideration of ski resort and public use development proposals in areas situated within the
foothills and canyons overlay zone, the planning commission may waive and/or modify the
regulations of Chapters 19.72 and 19.73 of this title in accordance with the procedures and criteria
set forth in Section 19.72.060, "Administration and enforcement."
    A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a conditional use;
    B.   Apartments, boardinghouse; lodging house, hotel; motel; resort hotel;
    C.    Bed and breakfast homestay, provided that:
         1.    The access to the site and the on-site parking are available for use and maintained,
              including snow removal, throughout the entire year, and


                                                                                            Page 45
     2.   An approved drinking water supply and wastewater disposal system is available that
          is capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and is approved by the
          health department prior to issuance of a license;
D.   Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference rooms;
E.   Class C beer outlet;
F.   Commercial and private recreation;
G.   Day care/preschool center subject to the conditions set forth in Section 19.76.260;
H.   Dwelling group, provided:
     1.    The parcel of ground on which the dwelling group, as defined in Section 19.04.190,
          is to be erected shall have an area equal to the aggregate of the minimum lot areas
          otherwise required in the zone for the number of individual dwelling structures in the
          group,
     2.   A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking
          spaces and vehicular maneuvering areas shall meet county standards,
     3.    The development or site plan shall provide a landscaped buffer area along the
          perimeter property lines and decorative adjacent to the buildings in appropriate
          locations, landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title, and
     4.   An approved drinking water supply and wastewater disposal system is available that
          is capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and is approved by the
          health department;
I.   Home day care/preschool with no less than seven and no more than twelve children,
     subject to the conditions set forth in Section 19.04.293;
J.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises of any main use;
K.   Office incidental to main use;
L.   Package agency;
M.    Planned unit development subject to the conditions and requirements set forth in
     Chapter 19.78, "Planned unit development";
N.   Private nonprofit locker club;
O.   Public and quasi-public uses;
P.    Restaurant, boutique, gift shop, and other limited commercial uses determined by the
     planning commission to be of the same character as these listed and serving the needs
     of the visitors and residents of the canyons;
Q.   Short term rentals, provided that:
     1.    The on-site parking and the access to the site are available for use and maintained,
          including snow removal, throughout the entire year, and
     2.   The dwelling unit is served by an approved drinking water supply and public sewer
          system that are capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and are
          approved by the health department prior to issuance of a license;
R.   Ski resorts;
S.   State store;


                                                                                        Page 46
     T.   Temporary structures;
     U.   Two-family dwelling; three-family dwelling; four-family dwelling; multiple-family dwelling;
     V.   Wireless telecommunication facilities, as that term and all related terms are defined in
          Section 19.83.020, provided:
          1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is either a wall-mounted, roof-mounted, or
               monopole facility. Facilities located on lattice towers are prohibited, and
          2.   Any grading for the facility, including access roads and trenching for utilities, shall
               comply with the Uniform Building Code, and
          3.   The facility complies with the requirements for development set forth in the foothills
               and canyons overlay zone, Chapter 19.72, including development standards for
               grading, wildlife habitat protection, tree and vegetation protection, natural hazards,
               and utilities, and standards for establishing limits of disturbance, and
          4.   Site placement and facility color shall be carefully considered to blend in with the
               natural surroundings, and
          5.    Continuous outside lighting is prohibited unless required by the FAA for monopole
               facilities, and
          6.   The maximum height for monopole facilities shall be sixty feet, and
          7.    A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as
               part of the required site plan and shall show all structures including but not limited
               to monopoles, antennas, and equipment buildings, and
          8.    All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless
               Telecommunications Facilities," are satisfied.



19.10.040 - Lot area, lot width and slope.

A.   Minimum lot area: One-half acre;
B.   Minimum lot width: One hundred feet;
C.    Lots Fronting on Cul-de-Sacs—Lot Width. The minimum lot width of any lot fronting on a cul-
     de-sac, partial cul-de-sac, or oblique angle-curved street from which the lot lines radiate shall
     be measured at a distance of fifty feet from the front lot line;
D.    Slope Requirements. All development in the FM zones shall be subject to the slope
     protection standards set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030B,
     "Slope Protection Standards" and Section 19.72.030D, "Streets and Roads."



19.10.050 - Limits of disturbance/setbacks.

    Because of the unique nature of the topography and climatic conditions of the foothill and
canyon areas, limits of disturbance and setbacks for permitted uses including single-family
dwellings and accessory structures in the FM zones shall be determined on a case-by-case basis
by the development services director. Limits of disturbance and setbacks for conditional uses


                                                                                              Page 47
shall be as finally approved by the planning commission upon the recommendation of the
development services director (see Chapter 19.72). All determinations of limits of disturbance
shall be subject to the conditions and criteria set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone,
Section 19.72.040, "Establishment of limits of disturbance."



19.10.060 - Building height.

A.    Conditional Uses—Case-by-Case Determination. Because of the unique nature of the
     topography, vegetation, soils, climatic and aesthetic characteristics of the foothills and
     canyons, the allowable height of conditional use structures in the FM-10 and FM-20 zones
     shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by the planning commission, subject to
     consideration of the following criteria:
     1.   Protection of the natural setting;
     2.   Relationship to other structures and open spaces;
     3.   Contour intervals and topographic features;
     4.   To the maximum extent feasible, the building height should not exceed the height of
          surrounding trees and vegetation;
     5.   Protection of scenic vistas, especially views from public rights-of-way and public lands;
          and
     6.   Other elements deemed appropriate to ensure that the provisions of Section 19.10.010
          are met.
B.    Multifamily Residential Conditional Uses—Maximum Height. Notwithstanding the case-by-
     case determination permitted by this section, the maximum height of a residential conditional
     use in the FM zones shall not exceed one hundred feet.
C.    Single-Family Dwellings. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, single-family
     dwellings shall not exceed the following heights:
     1.    Thirty feet on property where the original slope exceeds fifteen percent or the property
          is located in the foothills and canyons overlay zone. For purposes of this section, slope
          shall be determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest
          point of elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the
          single-family dwelling. The box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property
          line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of the single-family dwelling. The
          elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum
          contour interval of two feet;
     2.   Thirty-five feet for single-family dwellings on all other properties;
     3.   No single-family dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.



19.10.070 - Density of development.

A.   Residential Uses Other Than Single-Family. Maximum density for residential dwelling units,
     except single-family dwellings, shall be as follows:


                                                                                                Page 48
     Zone                                      Maximum Density

  FM-10                   10 dwelling units or 20 guestrooms per net developable acre

  FM-20                   20 dwelling units or 40 guestrooms per net developable acre.




B.     Net Developable Acreage Defined. For purposes of this section, "net developable acreage"
      is defined as land with all of the following:
      1.    Average slope less than thirty percent;
      2.    Soils of a suitable depth and type based on soil exploration and percolation tests in
            accordance with the regulations of the Utah Department of Environmental Quality in
            order to ensure against adverse impacts on surface water and groundwater quality;
      3.    Minimum distance from any stream corridor of one hundred feet, as "stream corridor" is
            defined in Section 19.72.070 of this title (Overlay zone); and
      4.     Free from any identified natural hazard such as flood, avalanche, landslide, high water
            table, and similar features. See Chapter 19.74, "Floodplain Hazard Regulations," and
            Chapter 19.75, "Natural Hazard Areas."



19.10.080 - Natural hazards.

    Construction of permanent structures in areas subject to natural hazards, including floods,
landslides, and avalanches, shall be subject to the requirements and limitations set forth in
Chapter 19.74, "Floodplain Hazard Regulations," and Chapter 19.75, "Natural Hazard Areas."



19.10.090 - Water quality.

A.     Department of Health Approval Required. Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit or
      site plan approval for all uses in the FM zones, regardless of size or number of units, the
      applicant shall receive the written approval of the health department certifying that all water
      quality and health requirements have been satisfied and that the proposed construction will
      not damage the natural watershed.
B.     Developments of More than Nine Lots/Units. Developments of more than nine lots or units
      shall receive the written approval of the Utah Department of Environmental Quality certifying
      that the culinary water system and the sewerage system meet all state water quality and
      health requirements. All approvals shall be in accordance with the regulations of the Utah
      Department of Environmental Quality relating to culinary water supply and wastewater
      disposal.
C.    Applicable State Regulations and Standards. The applicable state regulations for individual
      wastewater disposal systems can be found in the Utah Administrative Code, Sections R317-


                                                                                             Page 49
     501 through R317-513, as amended from time to time. The applicable state regulations for
     culinary water supply can be found in Utah Administrative Code, as amended from time to
     time.
D.    Subsequent Changes in Site Plan. If, after department of health or Utah Department of
     Environmental Quality review and action pursuant to this section, a site plan is modified such
     that the original limits of disturbance changes the applicant must submit the modified site
     plan to the appropriate health agency for retesting and a new determination whether all state
     wastewater and culinary water standards have been met. Evidence of such retesting must
     be submitted prior to final approval of the site plan.



19.10.100 - Grading.

     Grading shall be permitted only in conformance with the standards and limitations set forth
in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030C, "Grading Standards."



19.10.110 - Tree and vegetation protection.

    Removal of trees or natural vegetation shall not be permitted except in conformance with the
standards and requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section
19.72.030H, "Tree and Vegetation Protection."



19.10.120 - Utilities.

   All utilities in the FM zones shall be placed underground, except as may be provided for in
Chapter 19.79, "Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations."



19.10.130 - Building location, construction and design.

    All buildings and accessory structures in the FM zones, including single-family and multifamily
dwellings, shall be located, constructed, and designed in compliance with the development
standards set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030, "Development
standards," and in Chapter 19.73 of this title, "Foothills and Canyons Site Development and
Design Standards."



19.10.140 - Off-street parking.

A.    Permitted Uses. The development services director or his designee shall determine the
     number of off-street parking spaces required, provided the minimum requirements of Chapter
     19.80 are met, except that the planning commission may modify the requirements of Sections


                                                                                           Page 50
     19.80.060 through 19.80.120 if such modification will better preserve views, protect existing
     trees/vegetation, or reduce the amount of disturbance to steep slopes, wetlands, streams, or
     other sensitive environmental areas.
B.    Conditional Uses. The planning commission shall determine the number of off-street parking
     spaces required, provided the minimum requirements of Chapter 19.80 shall be met, except
     that for hotels and resort hotels one-half parking space shall be provided for each guestroom.
     The planning commission may modify the requirements of Sections 19.80.060 through
     19.80.120 if such modification will better preserve views, protect existing trees/vegetation, or
     reduce the amount of disturbance to steep slopes, wetlands, streams, or other sensitive
     environmental areas.



19.10.150 - Site development plan approval.

     Site development plans for all development in the FM zone, including single-family dwellings,
shall be approved prior to issuance of any building permits pursuant to the site development plan
approval requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.050,
"Approval procedure for developments in the foothills and canyons overlay zone."



19.10.160 - Applicability to lots of record and waivers from slope requirements.

A.    Applicable to Lots of Record. All standards and requirements for development in the FM
     zones as set forth in this chapter shall apply to development on lots that were recorded prior
     to the enactment date of the ordinance originally adopting said standards and requirements.
B.    Lots of Record—Waivers from Slope Requirements. For properties in the FM zones also
     located in the foothills and canyons overlay zone (see Chapter 19.72), the planning
     commission may waive slope requirements for streets/roads and slope protection
     requirements for lots of record and lots and plans of subdivisions that were provided prior to
     the enactment of Chapter 19.72, provided the conditions and criteria set forth in Section
     19.72.060A are satisfied.



Chapter 19.12 - FR-0.5, FR-1, FR-2.5, FR-5, FR-10, FR-20, FR-50 AND FR-100 FORESTRY
AND RECREATION ZONES                                                                                    Commented [DR11]: Continue from this point.
                                                                                                        (September PC Meeting)



19.12.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the forestry and recreation zones is to permit the development of the foothill
and canyon areas of the countymetro township for forestry, recreation, and other specified uses
to the extent such development is compatible with the protection of the natural and scenic
resources of these areas for the continued benefit of future generations.




                                                                                             Page 51
19.12.020 - Permitted uses.

    The following uses are permitted in the FR zones subject to compliance with all applicable
requirements set forth in this chapter including those relating to site and lot dimensions,
development standards, and other regulations:
    A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a permitted use;
    B.   Agriculture, as defined in Section 19.04.020;
    C.    Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
    D.    Home day care/preschool for six or fewer children subject to the conditions set forth in
         Section 19.04.293;
    E.    Household pets, provided the area proposed for animals is not in a watershed area,             Commented [CW12]: Check with the Health Department
         primary water supply recharge area, or drinking water source protection area, as                as to the applicability of this provision in the Copperton
         determined by the Salt Lake Valley health department or Utah Department of                      Metro area (or is it good to leave in as a general rule?)
         Environmental Quality;                                                                          UPDATE: DWSP areas north of town in the foothills.

    F.   Minor ski resort improvements, provided:
         1.    That the privately owned land areas on which such improvements are permitted
              constitute less than ten percent of the total land area utilized for the ski resort that
              the improvements support, and
         2.    That at least ninety percent of the land area on which the improvements are
              developed, operated, and maintained is on public lands, and
         3.    That the public agency responsible for the management and administration of such
              lands has previously approved a special use permit or similar regulatory
              authorization, and has assumed long-term administrative and enforcement
              responsibilities for such approvals, and
         4.    That opportunities for public notice, review, and comment on the proposed
              improvements have been provided through a finalized National Environmental
              Policy Act (NEPA) or other comprehensive public review and comment process, and
         5.   That such improvements are either:
              a.   Essential to public safety, or
              b.    Required in association with the reasonable repair or maintenance of existing
                   legally established facilities and improvements, or
              c.   Essential to the continuation or extension of improvements approved under the
                   terms of a governmental land lease or use permit or by final action of the federal
                   or state governmental agency with jurisdiction over the lands on which the
                   improvements are located;
    G.    Residential facility for persons with a disability;
    H.    Single-family dwellings;
    I.   Wireless telecommunication facilities; provided:
         1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is a wall-mounted or roof-mounted facility,
              and
         2.   The facility is mounted on a nonresidential building, and



                                                                                              Page 52
         3.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as
              part of the required site plan, and
         4.    All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless
              Telecommunications Facilities," are satisfied.



19.12.030 - Conditional uses.

    The following conditional uses are subject to the requirements of this chapter, all general and
specific conditions, criteria, and approval procedures set forth in Chapter 19.84, "Conditional
Uses," and for properties situated within the foothills and canyons overlay zone, the procedures
and provisions of Chapter 19.72, "Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone" and Chapter 19.73,
"Foothills and Canyons Site Development and Design Standards."
     The development services director may review and approve conditional use permits for ski
resort facilities and improvements which satisfy the criteria set forth in subparts (E)(1) through
(E)(4) of Section 19.12.020 of this chapter. In granting such approval within a foothills and canyon
overlay zone, the development services director may waive and/or modify the regulations of
Chapters 19.72 and 19.73 of this title in accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in
Section 19.72.060, "Administration and enforcement."
    Ski resort facilities and improvements which do not satisfy the criteria of Section 19.12.020,
subparts (E)(1) through (E)(4) of this chapter, as well as those which are referred to the planning
commission by the development services director in accordance with Section 19.84.080
provisions of this title, shall be subject to review and approval by the planning commission. In its
consideration of ski resort, public use, and mineral extraction and processing development
proposals in areas situated within the foothills and canyons overlay zone, the planning
commission may waive and/or modify the regulations of Chapters 19.72 and 19.73 of this title in
accordance with the procedures and criteria set forth in Section 19.72.060, "Administration and
enforcement."
    A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a conditional use;
    B.   Bed and breakfast homestay; provided:
         1.    The access to the site and the on-site parking are available for use and maintained,
              including snow removal, throughout the entire year, and
         2.   An approved drinking water supply and wastewater disposal system is available that
              is capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and is approved by the
              health department prior to issuance of a license;
    C.   Commercial and private recreation;
    D.   Day care/preschool center, subject to the conditions set forth in Section 19.76.260;
    E.   Dwelling group, provided:
         1.    The parcel of ground on which the dwelling group, as defined in Section 19.04.190,
              is to be erected shall have an area equal to the aggregate of the minimum lot areas
              otherwise required in the zone for the number of individual dwelling structures in the
              group,




                                                                                            Page 53
     2.   A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking
          spaces and vehicular maneuvering areas shall meet countymetro township
          standards,
     3.    The development or site plan shall provide a landscaped buffer area along the
          perimeter property lines and decorative adjacent to the buildings in appropriate
          locations, landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title, and
     4.   An approved drinking water supply and wastewater disposal system is available that
          is capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and is approved by the
          health department;
F.    Home day care/preschool for no fewer than seven nor more than twelve children, subject
     to the conditions set forth in Section 19.04.293;
G.    Horses, and animals and fowl for family food production, as defined in Section 19.04.235
     of this title, provided that:
     1.   The area proposed for animals is not a watershed area, as determined by the health
          department, and
     2.    The use will not create unreasonable on-site erosion, downstream siltation,
          bacteriological or biological pollution in subsurface or surface waters, destruction of
          vegetation, air pollution, including dust and odors or other detrimental environmental
          effects. In determining the environmental effects of the use, the planning
          commission shall seek and consider recommendations from the health department
          and other concerned agencies, and may require the applicant to submit scientific
          studies including analysis of slope, soils, vegetative cover, availability of water, and
          other elements necessary to establish environmental effects of the proposed use,
          and
     3.   The planning commission may limit the number of animals and fowl, or limit the
          amount of ground to be devoted to such use, or make other conditions to ensure
          environmental protection, and
     4.    After the use is established, if the planning commission determines, based on
          findings of facts, that unreasonable environmental degradation is occurring, the
          planning commission may, after notification to the applicant and hearing, establish
          additional conditions or order the use to be abated;
H.   Living quarters for persons employed on the premises of any main use;
I.   Logging and lumber processing, provided evidence is presented of approval by any
     federal or state agencies with jurisdiction over such use;
J.   Mineral extraction and processing; provided that:
     1.   The applicant shall comply with all applicable regulations of this chapter, including
          but not limited to site grading and drainage, landscaping, and environmental
          standards, and all applicable provisions in Chapter 19.72, "Foothills and Canyons
          Overlay Zone," and Chapter 19.73, "Foothills and Canyons Site Development and
          Design Standards," and
     2.   Such use shall not be located within one thousand feet of any residential use or lot,
          and




                                                                                          Page 54
     3.    The perimeter of the site shall be screened from adjacent properties and roads with
           a buffer yard of adequate width and opacity as determined by the countymetro
           township, and
     4.     The applicant submits a plan, prepared by a qualified professional, that shows the
           location of existing and proposed watercourses and drainage systems, including
           lakes, ponds, and detention basins, and
     5.     Water accumulating on the site shall be removed to a drainage way and any
           contaminated water shall be treated before being allowed to enter a drainage way,
           and
     6.    The applicant shall present evidence of all necessary state and/or federal permits
           and approvals, and
     7.    Access shall be provided, either directly or over a private haul road, to an arterial
           street that is designed for heavy truck traffic, and
     8.    A haul road entering the site from a public street or road shall be paved for at least
           a distance of five hundred feet from the public street or road, and
     9.     The property shall be posted with a notice of dangerous conditions and warning
           trespassers away, and
     10.    Operations shall be conducted in compliance with health department regulations
           and standards regarding noise, odor, vibrations, dust, blowing debris, hazardous
           materials, and air quality, and
     11.     The applicant shall submit a general plan for proposed rehabilitation of the site,
           including a schedule of rehabilitation measures and proposed ground cover and
           landscaping to be installed following the completion of the operation or the expiration
           of the conditional use approval (see Sections 19.72.030H, "Tree and Vegetation
           Protection," and 19.72.030C, "Grading Standards"), and
     12.     If a change in ownership occurs, the new owner shall submit a new application for
           conditional use approval. Approval of the new application shall not be granted until
           all new federal and/or state permits are issued to the new owner, and
     13.     Any suspension or revocation of required state or federal permits shall constitute
           a violation of this chapter and will result in automatic suspension or revocation of all
           countymetro township approvals and permits, and
     14.     The countymetro township may require a bond in favor of the countymetro
           township to be posted by the applicant to cover damages that may occur to
           countymetro township roads as a result of hauling materials excavated from the
           permitted site. The amount of the bond less any sums needed to correct damages
           shall be refunded to the excavator within one year after the conclusion of the
           excavation, and
     15.     The countymetro township may impose additional conditions addressing access,
           circulation, operations, noise, hours of operation, and similar impacts it deems
           necessary to minimize potential significant impacts on adjacent properties and
           streets;
K.   Offices incidental to main use;
L.    Planned unit development subject to the conditions and requirements set forth in
     Chapter 19.78, "Planned Unit Developments";


                                                                                           Page 55
M.   Public and quasi-public uses;
N.   Residential facility for elderly persons;
O.   Short term rentals provided that:
     1.     The property is located within Big or Little Cottonwood Canyons east of the dividing
           line between R1E and R2E, and
     2.     The on-site parking and the access to the site are available for use and maintained,
           including snow removal, throughout the entire year, and
     32.    The dwelling unit is served by an approved drinking water supply and public sewer
           system that are capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and are
           approved by the health department prior to issuance of a license;
P.   Ski resorts;
Q.   Temporary structures;                                                                         Commented [CW13]: Define this term.
R.   Underground record storage vaults, provided:
     1.    The facility complies with the requirements for development set forth in Chapter
           19.72, "Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone" and Chapter 19.73, "Foothills and
           Canyons Site Development and Design Standards," including but not limited to
           development standards for grading, wildlife habitat protection, tree and vegetation
           protection, outdoor lighting, natural hazards, and utilities, and standards for
           establishing limits of disturbance, and
     2.     Excavation of the site to construct the underground vaults shall be conducted as
           follows:
           a.   Access to the site shall be controlled through one point, and
           b.   The excavator shall post the property, noting that a dangerous condition exists
                and warning trespassers away, and
           c.    The excavator shall take care that trucks leaving the property are not
                overloaded and that spilled material is removed from adjacent public roads not
                less frequently than once every twenty-four hours while the excavation is in
                progress, and
           d.   Water accumulating on the site shall be removed to a drainage way and any
                contaminated water shall be treated before being allowed to enter a drainage
                way, and
           e.    When the operation ceases for a period of at least ninety days or moves from
                one area of the site to another, slope and graded areas remaining shall be left
                in accordance with the requirements for grading and revegetation set forth in
                Sections 19.72.030(B) and (C) of the foothills and canyons overlay district, and
           f.   The county may require a bond in favor of the county to be posted by the
                excavator to cover damages that may occur to county roads as a result of
                hauling materials excavated from the permitted site. The amount of the bond
                less any sums needed to correct damages shall be refunded to the excavator
                within one year after the conclusion of the excavation.
     3.     The applicant shall submit a general plan for proposed rehabilitation of the
           excavated site, including a schedule of rehabilitation measures and proposed



                                                                                        Page 56
                 ground cover and landscaping to be installed following the completion of the
                 excavation;
      SR.    Wireless telecommunication facilities, as that term and all related terms are defined in
            Section 19.83.020, provided:
            1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is either a wall-mounted, roof-mounted, or
                 monopole facility. Facilities located on lattice towers are prohibited, and
            2.   Any grading for the facility, including access roads and trenching for utilities, shall
                 comply with the Uniform Building Code, and
            3.   The facility complies with the requirements for development set forth in the foothills
                 and canyons overlay zone, Chapter 19.72, including development standards for
                 grading, wildlife habitat protection, tree and vegetation protection, natural hazards,
                 and utilities, and standards for establishing limits of disturbance, and
            4.   Site placement and facility color shall be carefully considered to blend in with the
                 natural surroundings, and
            5.    Continuous outside lighting is prohibited unless required by the FAA for monopole
                 facilities, and
            6.   The maximum height for monopole facilities shall be sixty feet, and
            7.    A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as
                 part of the required site plan and shall show all structures including but not limited
                 to monopoles, antennas, and equipment buildings; and all other applicable
                 requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless Telecommunications Facilities,"
                 are satisfied.



19.12.040 - Lot area, lot width, density, and slope.

A.    Lot Area, Lot Width, and Density Requirements:

                                                                    Maximum Residential Density
 District        Minimum Lot Area        Minimum Lot Width
                                                                    (dwelling units per gross acre)

 FR-0.5               ½ acre                   100 feet                  2 d.u. per gross acre

     FR-1              1 acre                  200 feet                  1 d.u. per gross acre

 FR-2.5            2—2 ½ acres                 250 feet               1 d.u. per 2.5 gross acres

     FR-5             5 acres                  300 feet                1 d.u. per 5 gross acres

  FR-10              10 acres                  300 feet               1 d.u. per 10 gross acres

  FR-20              20 acres                  300 feet               1 d.u. per 20 gross acres



                                                                                                 Page 57
  FR-50            50 acres                  300 feet              1 d.u. per 50 gross acres

 FR-100           100 acres                  300 feet             1 d.u. per 100 gross acres




B.   Measurement of Lot Width. The minimum lot width of any lot shall be measured at a distance
     of fifty feet from the front lot line.
C.    Slope Requirements. All development in the FR zones shall be subject to the slope protection
     standards set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030B, "Slope
     Protection Standards" and Section 19.72.030D, "Streets and Roads."



19.12.050 - Limits of disturbance/setbacks.

     Because of the unique nature of the topography and climatic conditions of the foothill and
canyon areas, limits of disturbance and setbacks for permitted uses including single-family
dwellings and accessory structures in the FR zones shall be determined on a case-by-case basis
by the development services director. Limits of disturbance and setbacks for conditional uses
shall be as finally approved by the planning commission, upon the recommendation of the
development services director (see Chapter 19.72). All determinations of limits of disturbance
shall be subject to the conditions and criteria set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone,
Section 19.72.040, "Establishment of limits of disturbance."



19.12.060 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed
     the following heights:
     1.    Thirty feet on property where the original slope exceeds fifteen percent or the property
          is located in the foothills and canyons overlay zone. For purposes of this section, the
          slope shall be determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the
          lowest point of elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of
          the building or structure. The box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the
          property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or structure.
          The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum
          contour interval of two feet.
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties.
B.   No single-family dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.



19.12.070 - Natural hazards.



                                                                                            Page 58
    Construction of permanent structures in areas subject to natural hazards, including floods,
landslides, and avalanches, shall be subject to the requirements and limitations set forth in
Chapter 19.74, "Floodplain Hazard Regulations," and Chapter 19.75, "Natural Hazard Areas."



19.12.080 - Water quality.

A.     Department of Health Approval Required. Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit or
      site development plan approval for all uses in the FR zones, regardless of size or number of
      units, the applicant shall receive the written approval of the board of health certifying that all
      water quality and health requirements have been satisfied and that the proposed construction
      will not damage the natural watershed.
B.     Developments of More than Nine Lots/Units. Developments of more than nine lots or units
      shall receive the written approval of the Utah Department of Environmental Quality certifying
      that the culinary water system and the sewerage system meet all state water quality and
      health requirements. All approvals shall be in accordance with the regulations of the Utah
      Department of Environmental Quality relating to culinary water supply and wastewater
      disposal.
CB.      Applicable State Regulations and Standards. The applicable state regulations for individual
      wastewater disposal systems can be found in the Utah Administrative Code, Sections R317-
      501 through R317-513, as amended from time to time. The applicable state regulations for
      culinary water supply can be found in Utah Administrative Code, as amended from time to
      time.
DC.      Subsequent Changes in Site Plan. If after health department or Utah Department of
      Environmental Quality review and action pursuant to this section, a site development plan is
      modified such that the original limits of disturbance change, the applicant must submit the
      modified site plan to the appropriate health agency for retesting and a new determination
      whether all state wastewater and culinary water standards have been met. Evidence of such
      retesting must be submitted prior to final approval of the site development plan.



19.12.090 - Grading.

     Grading shall be permitted only in conformance with the standards and limitations set forth
in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030C, "Grading Standards."



19.12.100 - Tree and vegetation protection.

    Removal of trees or natural vegetation shall not be permitted except in conformance with the
standards and requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section
19.72.030H, "Tree and Vegetation Protection."




                                                                                                Page 59
19.12.110 - Utilities.

   All utilities in the FR zones shall be placed underground, except as may be provided for in
Chapter 19.79, "Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations."



19.12.120 - Building location, construction, and design.

     All buildings and accessory structures in the FR zones, including single-family dwellings, shall
be located, constructed, and designed in compliance with the development standards set forth in
the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.050, "Development standards," and in
Chapter 19.73 of this title, "Foothills and Canyons Site Development and Design Standards."



19.12.130 - Off-street parking.

A.    Permitted Uses. The planning and development services division director shall determine
     the number of off-street parking spaces required, provided the minimum requirements of
     Chapter 19.80 are met, except that the planning commission may modify the requirements
     of Sections 19.80.060 through 19.80.120 if such modification will better preserve views,
     protect existing trees/vegetation, or reduce the amount of disturbance to steep slopes,
     wetlands, streams, or other sensitive environmental areas.
B.    Conditional Uses. The planning commission shall determine the number of off-street parking
     spaces required provided the minimum requirements of Chapter 19.80 are met, except that
     the planning commission may modify the requirements of Sections 19.80.060 through
     19.80.120 if such modification will better preserve views, protect existing trees/vegetation, or
     reduce the amount of disturbance to steep slopes, wetlands, streams, or other sensitive
     environmental areas.
C.   Covered parking is encouraged for all developments in the FR zone.



19.12.140 - Site development plan approval.

     Site development plans for all development in the FR zone, including single-family dwellings,
shall be approved prior to issuance of any building permits pursuant to the site development plan
approval requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.050,
"Approval procedures for development in the foothills and canyons overlay zone."



19.12.150 - Applicability to lots of record and waivers from slope requirements.

A.    Applicable to Lots of Record. All standards and requirements for development in the FR
     zones as set forth in this chapter shall apply to development on lots and in subdivisions that
     were recorded prior to the enactment date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.



                                                                                             Page 60
B.    Lots of Record—Waivers from Slope Requirements. For properties in the FR zones also
     located in the foothills and canyons overlay zone (see Chapter 19.72), the planning
     commission may waive grade requirements for streets/roads and slope protection
     requirements for lots of record and lots and plans of subdivisions that were approved prior to
     the enactment of Chapter 19.72, provided the conditions and criteria set forth in Section
     19.72.060A are satisfied.




Chapter 19.14 - R-1-3, R-1-4, R-1-5, R-1-6, R-1-7, R-1-8, R-1-10, R-1-15, R-1-21, R-1-43
SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL ZONES



19.14.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the R-1 zones is to establish single-family neighborhoods which provide
persons who reside therein a comfortable, health, safe and pleasant environment.



19.14.020 - Permitted uses.

     Permitted uses in the R-1 zones are as follows:

     Zone                                        Permitted Uses

                    —Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted use
     All R-1      provided the total square footage of all accessory buildings does not exceed
     zones         eight hundred square feet on lots under one-half acre or one thousand two
                              hundred square feet on lots one-half acre or larger;

                                                  —Agriculture;

                                  —Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;

                           —Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;

                                                —Household pets;

                                —Residential facility for persons with a disability.




                                                                                           Page 61
R-1-6, R-1-7,
 R-1-8, R-1-                               —Single-family dwelling.
 10, R-1-15

 R-1-21, R-1-       —Guesthouse, the square footage must be less than one thousand two
      43                                  hundred square feet;

                         —Maximum of four horses for private use only, not for rental;

                                           —Single-family dwelling.




19.14.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the R-1 zones are as follows:

    Zone                                      Conditional Uses

                —Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a conditional use. Any
   All R-1       accessory building or buildings where the total square footage exceeds eight
   zones        hundred square feet on lots under one half-acre or one thousand two hundred
                                  square feet on lots one-half acre or larger;

                                                 —Cemetery;

                          —Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;

                                                —Golf course;

                          —Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;

                                        —Planned unit development;

                —Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that
                                      ordinarily given in public schools;

                            —Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;

                                       —Public and quasi-public uses;



                                                                                         Page 62
                                   —Residential facility for elderly persons;

                —Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which building
               must be removed upon the completion of the construction work. If such buildings
               are not removed within ninety days upon completion of construction work or thirty
                 days after notice, the building will be removed by the countymetro township at
                                             the expense of the owner.

R-1-3, R-1-
                                           —Single-family dwelling.
    4,

                                       —Single-family project developments
                 The planning commission may approve a detailed development plan for the
               entire single-family project in an R-1-3, R-1-4, R-1-5 zone, pursuant to Chapter
   R-1-5       19.84 of this title. Thereafter, the development services division director may, as
                  authorized by the planning commission, approve use permits for individual
                  residential uses, provided that the plans comply with all requirements and
                                   conditions of the approved development plan.

R-1-6, R-1-
7, R-1-8, R-
                       —Nursery and greenhouse, provided that there is no retail sales;
 1-10, R-1-
     15

  R-1-15                     —Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;

                         —Sportsman's kennel with a minimum lot area of one acre.

R-1-21, R-
                                —Animals and fowl for family food production;
  1-43

                                        —Bed and breakfast homestay;

                      —Nursery and greenhouse; provided, that there is no retail sales;

                             —Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;

                         —Sportsman's kennel with a minimum lot area of one acre.




                                                                                           Page 63
19.14.040 - Lot areas and widths.

     The minimum lot area and width requirements are as follows:

 Zone          Minimum Lot Area                            Minimum Lot Width

 R-1-3         3,000 square feet           25 feet at a distance 20 feet from the front lot line

 R-1-4         4,000 square feet                             Same as above

 R-1-5         5,000 square feet                             Same as above

 R-1-6         6,000 square feet           60 feet at a distance 25 feet from the front lot line

 R-1-7         7,000 square feet           65 feet at a distance 25 feet from the front lot line

 R-1-8         8,000 square feet                             Same as above

R-1-10        10,000 square feet        80 feet at a distance 30 feet back from the front lot line

R-1-15        15,000 square feet                             Same as above

R-1-21 21,780 square feet (½ acre)        100 feet at a distance 30 feet from the front lot line

R-1-43 43,560 square feet (1 acre)                           Same as above




19.14.050 - Yards.

A.    Dwellings: The minimum yard requirements for a private garage or dwelling are as follows:

                                                       Side Yard        Rear Yard      Rear Yard
              Front
     Zone                 Side Yard (Interior)         (Facing a         Without         With
              Yard
                                                      public street)     Garage         Garage

R-1-3, R-      20      5 feet unless attached to a
                                                         20 feet          20 feet        15 feet
1-4, R-1-5    feet     dwelling on an adjacent lot




                                                                                            Page 64
                        5 feet one side and 11 feet on
R-1-6, R-       25
                         the garage or driveway side        20 feet           30 feet       15 feet
1-7, R-1-8     feet
                            or 8 feet on each side

 R-1-10,
                30                                                           Same as       Same as
 R-1-15,                     10 feet on each side           20 feet
               feet                                                           above         above
 R-1-21

                30                                                           Same as       Same as
     R-1-43                  15 feet on each side           20 feet
               feet                                                           above         above




B.     Accessory Buildings: The minimum yard requirements for an accessory building, which may
      include a private garage that does not meet the setback requirements listed in subsection A
      above, are as follows:

                                                      Minimum Side
                                         Minimum
                      Minimum Front                   Yard (Facing
       Zone                              Side Yard                           Minimum Rear Yard
                           Yard                          a public
                                         (Interior)
                                                          street)

 R-1-3, R-1-4,                                                          1 foot, except lots which rear
 R-1-5, R-1-6,         Must be in the                                      upon the side yard of an
 R-1-7, R-1-8,        rear yard and 6                                  adjacent lot, in which case the
                                           1 foot        20 feet
  R-1-10, R-1-        feet away from                                   minimum setback shall be 10
 15, R-1-21, R-         the dwelling                                     feet from the adjoining side
      1-43                                                                           yard.




C.     The minimum yard requirements for a main building other than residential are as follows:

                                        Minimum Front        Minimum Side           Minimum Rear
               Zone
                                             Yard                Yards                  Yard

        R-1-3, R-1-4, R-1-5                20 feet                 20 feet              20 feet

        R-1-6, R-1-7, R-1-8                25 feet                 20 feet              30 feet

 R-1-10, R-1-15, R-1-21, R-1-
                                           30 feet                 20 feet              30 feet
              43



                                                                                               Page 65
19.14.055 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments shall be determined by the planning
commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following factors: recommendations
of countymetro township and non-countymetro township agencies; site constraints; compatibility
with nearby land uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan. Notwithstanding the
above, the planning commission shall not approve a planned unit development with density higher
than the following:

              R-1-3                                    11.0 units per acre

              R-1-4                                     9.0 units per acre

              R-1-5                                     7.0 units per acre

              R-1-6                                     6.0 units per acre

              R-1-7                                     5.0 units per acre

              R-1-8                                     4.5 units per acre

           R-1-10                                       4.0 units per acre

           R-1-15                                       2.5 units per acre

           R-1-21                                       2.0 units per acre

           R-1-43                                       1.0 units per acre




19.14.060 - Building height.

     Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title no building or structure shall exceed the
following height (see Section 19.04.095 (A) for definition of "height"):
    A.    Main Buildings.
         1.    Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen
               percent or the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be



                                                                                              Page 66
              determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point
              of elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the
              building or structure. Said box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the
              property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or
              structure. The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey
              with a maximum contour interval of two feet.
         2.    Thirty-five feet on properties other than those listed in number one of this
              subsection.
         3.   No dwelling shall contain less than one story.
    B.   Accessory Buildings.
         1.    No building which is accessory to a single-family dwelling shall exceed twenty feet
              in height. For each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set
              back from property lines an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.



19.14.070 - Coverage of rear yards.

    No accessory building or group of accessory buildings shall cover more than twenty-five
percent of the rear yard.



19.14.080 - Informational.

     For additional information refer to the zoning ordinance and in particular the following
sections:

   19.76.020                                     Occupancy permit.

   19.04.560                                            Yard.

   19.76.080                        Lots and buildings on private rights-of-ways.

   19.76.100                        Sale of space needed to meet requirements.

   19.76.140                        Private garage or carport—Reduced yards.

   19.76.190                               Height limitations—Exceptions.

   19.76.200                              Additional height allowed when.

   19.76.210                                   Off-site improvements.




                                                                                             Page 67
   19.76.290                     Single-family or two-family dwellings—Standards.

   19.80.040                                Number of spaces required.




Chapter 19.32 - R-2-6.5, R-2-8, R-2-10 MEDIUM DENSITY RESIDENTIAL ZONES



19.32.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the R-2 zones is to establish low to medium density residential neighborhoods
which provide persons who reside therein a comfortable, healthy, safe and pleasant environment.



19.32.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the R-2 zones are as follows:

  Zone                                         Permitted Uses

            — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted use provided
R-2-6.5,
            the total square footage of all accessory buildings does not exceed eight hundred
R-2-8, R-
            square feet on lots under one-half acre or one thousand two hundred square feet
  2-10
                                      on lots one-half acre or larger;

                                                —Agriculture;

                                —Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;

                        —Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;

                                              —Household pets;

                                  —Residential facility for elderly persons;

                              —Residential facility for persons with a disability;

                                          —Single-family dwelling;




                                                                                        Page 68
                                            —Two-family dwelling.




19.32.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the R-2 zones are as follows:

  Zone                                         Conditional Uses

              —Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a conditional use. Any
 R-2-6.5,
               accessory building or buildings where the total square footage exceeds eight
  R-2-8,
              hundred square feet on lots under one-half acre or one thousand two hundred
 R-2-10
                                square feet on lots one-half acre or larger;

                                                 —Cemetery;

                        —Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;

                                              —Dwelling group.

            A. The development shall comply with the maximum allowable density for the zone
                                        in which it is located.

               B. The distance between the principal buildings shall be equal to the total side
              yards required in the zone; provided, however, that at the option of the developer
               the distance between the principal structures may be reduced to ten feet, if the
                   difference between ten feet and the required side yards is maintained as
             permanently landscaped open space elsewhere on the site. The distance between
               principal buildings and the nearest perimeter lot line shall be at least fifteen feet
             unless demonstrated by the development plan that the yard required for a principal
                building in the district in which it is located is more appropriate. The distance
             between the building and a public street shall be at least the front yard required in
            the zoning district, except on corner lots the side yard which faces on a public street
                                            shall be at least twenty feet.

            C. Access shall be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street;
            such private street or right-of-way shall be at least twenty feet wide for one or two
              rear dwelling units and at least thirty feet wide for three or more dwelling units.




                                                                                             Page 69
  D. A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit.
Parking spaces and vehicular maneuvering areas shall meet countymetro township
                                 standards.

  E. Every dwelling structure in the dwelling group shall be within sixty feet of an
                             access roadway or drive.

F. The development plan shall provide landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of
this title. Solid visual fences shall be provided along all interior property lines unless
                      the planning commission approves otherwise.

                                     —Golf course;

             —Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;

          —Nursery and greenhouse, provided that there is no retail sales;

                —Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;

                             —Planned unit development;

   —Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that
                         ordinarily given in public schools;

                —Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;

                            —Public and quasi-public uses;

                             —Short-term rental provided:

 —A. The dwelling unit is located in a single-family or two-family dwelling, but not
        located in a planned unit development or dwelling group; and

—B. The site has frontage on a street with an existing or proposed right-of-way of at
     least sixty-six feet, as identified on the map entitled "Road Widening and
 Improvement Map" on file with the development services division and such map is
made by this reference, as such, a part of this title as if fully described and detailed
                                          herein;

             —Sportsman's kennel with a minimum lot area of one acre;




                                                                                   Page 70
           —Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must
           be removed upon the completion of the construction work. If such buildings are not
            removed within ninety days upon completion of construction work and thirty days
              after notice, the building will be removed by the countymetro township at the
                                           expense of the owner.

 R-2-10                                —Bed and breakfast homestay.




19.32.040 - Lot areas and widths.

     The minimum lot area and width requirements are as follows:

Zone                            Minimum Lot Area                             Minimum Lot Width

            4,000 square feet for a lot containing 1 unit of a two-family
                                                                             60 feet at a distance
 R-2-      dwelling 6,000 square feet for a single-family dwelling 6,500
                                                                               25 feet from the
 6.5      square feet for a two-family dwelling 8,000 square feet for any
                                                                                 front lot line
                                other main building

                                                                             65 feet at a distance
            4,000 square feet for a lot containing 1 unit of a two-family
R-2-8                                                                          30 feet from the
              dwelling 8,000 square feet for any other main building
                                                                                 front lot line

 R-2-       5,000 square feet for a lot containing 1 unit of a two-family
                                                                                  Same as above
  10         dwelling 10,000 square feet for any other main building




19.32.050 - Yards.

A.    Dwellings: The minimum yard requirements for a private garage or single or two-family
     dwelling unit are as follows:

                                                                Minimum Side
           Minimum                                                                  Minimum Rear
 Zone                      Minimum Side Yard (Interior)         Yard (Facing a
          Front Yard                                                                    Yard
                                                                 public street)




                                                                                           Page 71
                         8 feet, however, no side yard setback
                                                                                        With garage: 15
 R-2-                       is required from the property line
            25 feet                                                      20 feet         feet Without
 6.5                        dividing two units of a two family
                                                                                        garage: 30 feet
                         dwelling subdivided under 19.32.090

R-2-8,
            30 feet                   Same as above                                     Same as above
R-2-10




B.     Accessory Buildings: The minimum yard requirements for an accessory building, which may
      include a private garage that does not meet the setback requirements listed in subsection A
      above, are as follows:

                                    Minimum      Minimum Side
               Minimum Front
     Zone                           Side Yard    Yard (Facing a            Minimum Rear Yard
                    Yard
                                    (Interior)    public street)

                                                                    1 foot, except lots which rear upon
                Must be in the
R-2-6.5,                                                            the side yard of an adjacent lot, in
               rear yard and 6
 R-2-8,                               1 foot         20 feet         which case the minimum setback
               feet away from
R-2-10                                                              shall be 10 feet from the adjoining
                 the dwelling
                                                                                 side yard.




C.     The minimum yard requirements for a main building other than residential are as follows:

        Zone           Minimum Front Yard          Minimum Side Yards              Minimum Rear Yard

       R-2-6.5                   25 feet                  20 feet                       30 feet

  R-2-8, R-2-10                  30 feet                  20 feet                       30 feet




19.32.055 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments and dwelling groups shall be
determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following
factors: recommendations of countymetro township and non-countymetro township agencies; site


                                                                                                  Page 72
constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan.
Notwithstanding, the planning commission shall not approve a planned unit development with
density higher than the following:

     Zone                   Single-Family Dwelling                     Two-Family Dwelling

    R-2-6.5                    7.0 units per acre                       12.0 units per acre

     R-2-8                     6.0 units per acre                       10.0 units per acre

    R-2-10                     5.0 units per acre                       8.0 units per acre




19.32.060 - Building height.

     Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed the
following height (see Section 19.04.095(A) for definition of "height"):
    A.    Main Buildings.
         1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen
              percent or the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be
              determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point
              of elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the
              building or structure. Said box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the
              property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or
              structure. The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey
              with a maximum contour interval of two feet.
         2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties.
         3.   No dwelling shall contain less than one story.
    B.    Accessory Buildings.
         1.    No building which is accessory to a one-family or two-family dwelling shall exceed
              twenty feet in height. For each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings
              shall be set back from property lines an additional foot to allow a maximum height
              of twenty feet.



19.32.070 - Coverage of rear yards.

    No accessory building or group of accessory buildings shall cover more than twenty-five
percent of the rear yard.




                                                                                               Page 73
19.32.080 - Informational.

     For additional information refer to the zoning ordinance and in particular the following
sections:

   19.76.020                                       Occupancy permit.

   19.76.070                             Division of a two-family dwelling.

   19.76.100                       Sale of space needed to meet requirements.

   19.76.140                        Private garage or carport—Reduced yards.

   19.76.190                              Height limitations—Exceptions.

   19.76.200                              Additional height allowed when.

   19.76.210                                     Off-site improvements.

   19.76.290                    Single-family or two-family dwellings—Standards.

   19.80.040                                   Number of spaces required.




19.32.090 - Division of two-family dwelling.

    A lot containing a two-family dwelling may be subdivided, creating a new lot line along the
shared common wall and extending to the front and rear property lines, subject to the following
conditions:
    A.    The minimum area of the lot containing each unit shall be four thousand square feet in
         the R-2-6.5 and R-2-8 zones, and five thousand square feet in the R-2-10 zone.
    B.   The division of ground is subject to the requirements of the Salt Lake CountyCopperton
         Metro Township Subdivision Ordinance (Title 18).
    C.    The subdivision plat shall specifically note that the purpose of the subdivision is to
         accommodate the division of a two-family dwelling.



Chapter 19.38 - R-2-10C RESIDENTIAL ZONE




                                                                                        Page 74
19.38.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the R-2-10C zone is to provide neighborhoods in the canyon areas of the
county for low-density residential development.



19.38.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the R-2-10C zone include:
        — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
        — Agriculture;
        — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Household pets; the keeping of not more than four horses for private use only and not
    for rental;
        — Residential facility for elderly persons;
        — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
        — Single-family dwelling;
        — Two-family dwelling.



19.38.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the R-2-10C zone include:
        — Airport;
        — Bed and breakfast homestay;
        — Cemetery, etc.;
         — Chickens, ducks, geese or other fowl totaling not more than fifty fowl on any one lot;
    four horses on one lot, provided that no horses may be kept on any lot less than one acre,
    and no corral or stable for keeping of horses may be closer to a public street or to any dwelling
    than one hundred feet;
        — Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;
        — Dwelling group.
        A.    The parcel of ground on which the dwelling group, as defined in Section 19.04.190,
             is to be erected shall have an area equal to the aggregate of the minimum lot areas
             otherwise required in the zone for the number of individual dwelling structures in the
             group.
        B.    The distance between the principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards
             required in the zone; provided, however, that at the option of the developer the
             distance between the principal structures may be reduced to ten feet, provided that
             the difference between ten feet and the required side yards is maintained as
             permanently landscaped open space elsewhere on the site. The distance between


                                                                                             Page 75
         principal buildings and the nearest perimeter lot line shall not be less than fifteen
         feet unless demonstrated by the development plan that the yard required for a
         principal building in the district in which it is located is more appropriate. The
         distance between the building and a public street shall be not less than the front
         yard required in the zoning district, except for corner lots the side yard which faces
         on a public street shall be not less than twenty feet.
    C.    Access shall be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street;
         such private street or right-of-way shall not be less than twenty feet wide for one or
         two rear dwelling units, and not less than thirty feet wide for three or more dwelling
         units.
    D.    A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking
         spaces and vehicular maneuvering areas shall be designed to comply with county
         standards.
    E.   Every dwelling in the dwelling group shall be within sixty feet of an access roadway
         or drive.
    F.    The development plan shall provide landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of
         this title. Solid visual barrier fences shall be provided along all property lines unless
         the planning commission approves otherwise by deleting or modifying the fence
         requirement.
    G.    The development shall be approved by the development services director and the
         county fire chief before final approval is given by the planning commission.
    — Golf course;
    — Guest house;
    — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
    — Home occupation;
    — Nursery and greenhouse, provided that there is no retail shop operated in connection
therewith;
    — Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;
    — Planned unit development;
     — Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that
ordinarily given in public schools;
    — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
    — Public and quasi-public uses;
    — Short-term rental provided:
    A.    The dwelling unit is located in a single-family or two-family dwelling, but not located
         in a planned unit development or dwelling group; and
    B.    The site has frontage on a street with an existing or proposed right-of-way of at
         least sixty-six feet, as identified on the map entitled "Road Widening and
         Improvement Map" on file with the development services division and such map is
         made by this reference, as such, a part of this title as if fully described and detailed
         herein;



                                                                                          Page 76
         — Sportsman's kennel (minimum lot area one acre);
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
    removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are
    not removed within ninety days upon completion of construction work and thirty days after
    notice, the buildings will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner.



19.38.040 - Lot area.

    The minimum lot area in the R-2-10C zone shall be not less than ten thousand square feet,
except that the minimum area for any lot which is being used for horses shall be one-half acre.



19.38.050 - Lot width.

      The minimum width of any lot in the R-2-10C zone shall be seventy-five feet, at a distance
fifteen feet back from the front lot line.



19.38.060 - Front yard.

     In the R-2-10C zone, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings, and for private
garages which have a minimum side yard of five feet, shall be fifteen feet for lots facing on a state
highway, and five feet for lots facing on a county road. All accessory buildings, other than private
garages which have a minimum side yard, shall be located at least six feet in the rear of the main
building.



19.38.070 - Side yard.

     In the R-2-10C zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be five feet, and the total
width of the two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen feet. Other main buildings
shall have a minimum side yard of twenty feet, and the total width of the two side yards shall be
not less than forty feet. The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be five feet, except that
private garages and other accessory buildings located in the rear and at least six feet away from
the main building may have a minimum side yard of one foot, provided that no private garage or
other accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On
corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street for both main and accessory buildings shall be
not less than fifteen feet on state highways or five feet on other streets.



19.38.080 - Rear yard.




                                                                                             Page 77
      In R-2-10C zones, the minimum rear yard for a main building shall be twenty-five feet, and
for accessory buildings one foot; provided that, on corner lots which rear upon the side of another
lot, accessory buildings shall be located not closer than five feet to such side yard.



19.38.090 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed
     the following height:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen
          percent or the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be
          determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of
          elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the building or
          structure. The box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line,
          whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or structure. The elevation
          shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval
          of two feet;
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
     3.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.   No building which is accessory to a one-family or two-family dwelling shall exceed twenty
          feet in height. For each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set
          back from property lines an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.



Chapter 19.40 - R-4-8.5 RESIDENTIAL ZONE



19.40.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the R-4-8.5 zone is to provide neighborhoods in the countymetro township
for medium-density residential development.



19.40.020 - Permitted uses.

     Permitted uses in the R-4-8.5 zone include:
          — Agriculture;
          — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
          — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
          — Household pets;



                                                                                              Page 78
         — Residential development with a maximum number of two dwelling units per structure
    per lot;
        — Residential facility for elderly persons;
        — Residential facility for persons with a disability.



19.40.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the R-4-8.5 zone include:
        — Airport;
        — Bed and breakfast homestay (provided it is located on a lot which has a minimum
    area of ten thousand square feet);
        — Bed and breakfast inn;
        — Boardinghouse;
        — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
        — Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;
        — Dental clinic;
        — Dwelling group.
        A.   The development shall comply with the maximum allowable density for the R-4-8.5
             zone.
        B.    The distance between the principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards
             required in the zone; provided, however, that at the option of the developer the
             distance between the principal structures may be reduced to ten feet, provided that
             the difference between ten feet and the required side yards is maintained as
             permanently landscaped open space elsewhere on the site. The distance between
             principal buildings and the nearest perimeter lot line shall not be less than fifteen
             feet unless demonstrated by the development plan that the yard required for a
             principal building in the district in which it is located is more appropriate. The
             distance between the building and a public street shall be not less than the front
             yard required in the zoning district, except for corner lots the side yard which faces
             on a public street shall be not less than twenty feet.
        C.    Access shall be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street;
             such private street or right-of-way shall be not less than twenty feet wide for one or
             two rear dwelling units, and not less than thirty feet wide for three or more dwelling
             units.
        D.    A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking
             spaces and vehicular maneuvering areas shall be designed to comply with
             countymetro township standards.
        E.   Every dwelling in the dwelling group shall be within sixty feet of an access roadway
             or drive.
        F.    The development plan shall provide landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of
             this title. Solid visual barrier fences shall be provided along all property lines unless


                                                                                              Page 79
             the planning commission approves otherwise by deleting or modifying the fence
             requirement.
        G.    The development shall be approved by the development services director and the
             countymetro township fire chief before final approval is given by the planning
             commission.
        — Four-family dwellings;
        — Fraternity house;
        — Golf course;
        — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
        — Medical clinic, excluding animal hospital and clinic;
        — Mobile home park;
        — Nursery and greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
        — Nursing home;
        — Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;
        — Planned unit development;
         — Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that
    ordinarily given in public schools;
        — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
        — Public and quasi-public uses;
        — Short-term rental provided:
        A.   A full-time manager lives on the property. The full-time manager may be the owner
             of the property; and
        B.    Except for the manager's dwelling unit, all of the dwelling units on the property, lot,
             planned unit development, or dwelling group shall be rental units, short-term or long-
             term.
        — Sorority house;
        — Sportsman's kennel (minimum lot area one acre);
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
    removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are
    not removed within ninety days upon completion of construction work and thirty days after
    notice, the buildings will be removed by the countymetro township at the expense of the
    owner;
        — Three-family dwellings.



19.40.040 - Lot area.

    The minimum lot area in the R-4-8.5 zone shall be not less than six thousand square feet for
each one-family dwelling or six thousand five hundred square feet for each two-family dwelling,



                                                                                             Page 80
with one thousand square feet, additional, required for each additional building unit, and not less
than eight thousand square feet for any main building other than dwellings.



19.40.050 - Lot width.

     The minimum width of any lot in the R-4-8.5 zone shall be sixty feet, at a distance twenty-five
feet back from the front lot line.



19.40.060 - Front yard.

     In the R-4-8.5 zone, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings, and for private
garages which have a minimum side yard of eight feet, shall be twenty-five feet or the average of
the existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed; but in no case less
than fifteen feet, or be required to be more than twenty feet.



19.40.070 - Side yard.

     In the R-4-8.5 zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet, and the total
width of the two required side yards shall not be less than eighteen feet. Other main buildings
shall have a minimum side yard of twenty feet, and the total width of the two required side yards
shall be not less than forty feet. The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet,
except that private garages and other accessory buildings located in the rear and at least six feet
away from the main building may have a minimum side yard of not less than one foot, provided
that no private garage or other accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet to a
dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street for both main
and accessory buildings shall be not less than twenty feet or the average of existing buildings
where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in no case less than fifteen feet, or
be required to be more than twenty feet.



19.40.080 - Rear yard.

     In R-4-8.5 zones, the minimum depth of the rear yard for any main building shall be thirty
feet, and for accessory buildings one foot; provided that, on corner lots which rear upon the side
yard of another lot, accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such side yard.



19.40.090 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed
     the following height:



                                                                                             Page 81
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen
          percent or the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be
          determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of
          elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the building or
          structure. The box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line,
          whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or structure. The elevation
          shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval
          of two feet;
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
     3.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.   No building which is accessory to a one-family, two-family, or three-family dwelling shall
          exceed twenty feet in height. For each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory
          buildings shall be set back from property lines an additional foot to allow a maximum
          height of twenty feet.



19.40.100 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments and dwelling groups shall be
determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following
factors: recommendations of countymetro township and non-countymetro township agencies; site
constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan.
Notwithstanding, the planning commission shall not approve a planned unit development with
density higher than the following:

                Single-family dwellings                7.0 units per acre

                 Two-family dwellings                                12.0 units per acre

                Three-family dwellings                               15.0 units per acre

                Four-family dwellings                                18.0 units per acre




Chapter 19.42 - S-1-G RESIDENTIAL ZONE



19.42.010 - Purpose of provisions.




                                                                                            Page 82
     The purpose of the S-1-G zone is to permit extraction of gravel and similar natural resources
in the countymetro township.



19.42.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the S-1-G zone include:
         — Agriculture.



19.42.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the S-1-G zone include:
         — Golf course;
         — Mine; quarry; gravel pit; including crushers, concrete batching plants used in
    connection with and as a part of an operation for the removal of sand or gravel from the parcel
    of property upon which the crusher or batching plant is installed, but expressly excluding an
    asphalt plant or any type of oil or asphalt emulsion mixing operation. Excavations are
    permitted only under the conditions outlined in the Salt Lake Countymetro township
    excavation ordinance;
         — Nursery and/or greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
         — Public and quasi-public uses;
         — Recreation, commercial;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons;
         — Single-family dwelling;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
    removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are
    not removed within ninety days upon completion of construction work and thirty days after
    notice, the buildings will be removed by the countymetro township at the expense of the
    owner.



19.42.040 - Lot area.

    The minimum lot area in the S-1-G zone shall be not less than one-half acre.



19.42.050 - Lot width.

     The minimum width of any lot in the S-1-G zone shall be one hundred feet, at a distance thirty
feet back from the front lot line.



                                                                                           Page 83
19.42.060 - Front yard.

     In the S-1-G zone, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings, and for private
garages which have a minimum side yard of ten feet, shall be thirty feet, or the average of the
existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, provided that in no
case shall the front yard be less than twenty feet or be required to be more than thirty feet. All
accessory buildings, other than private garages which have a side yard of at least ten feet, shall
be located at least six feet in the rear of the main building.



19.42.070 - Side yard.

      In the S-1-G zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be ten feet, and the total
width of the two required side yards shall not be less than twenty-four feet. Other main buildings
shall have a minimum side yard of twenty feet, and the total width of the two required side yards
shall be not less than forty feet. The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be ten feet,
except that private garages and other accessory buildings located in the rear and at least six feet
away from the main building may have a minimum side yard of one foot, provided that no private
garage or other accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on an
adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street for both main and accessory
buildings shall be not less than twenty feet, or the average of existing buildings where more than
fifty percent of the frontage is developed, but in no case shall the side yard be less than twenty
feet.



19.42.080 - Rear yard.

     In S-1-G zones, the minimum depth of the rear yard for any building shall be thirty feet, and
for accessory buildings one foot; provided that, on corner lots which rear upon the side yard of
another lot, accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such side yard.



19.42.090 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed
     the following height:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen
          percent or the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be
          determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of
          elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the building or
          structure. The box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line,
          whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or structure. The elevation
          shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval
          of two feet;



                                                                                            Page 84
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
     3.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.    No building which is accessory to a single-family dwelling shall exceed twenty feet in
          height. For each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set back
          from property lines an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.



Chapter 19.44 - R-M RESIDENTIAL ZONE



19.44.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the R-M zone is to provide areas in the countymetro township for high-density
residential development.



19.44.020 - Permitted uses.

     Permitted uses in the R-M zone include:
          — Agriculture;
          — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
          — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
          — Household pets;
          — Residential development, with a maximum number of two units per structure per lot;
          — Residential facility for elderly persons.



19.44.030 - Conditional uses.

     Conditional uses in the R-M zone include:
          — Airport;
          — Apartments;
          — Apartments for elderly persons;
          — Banks;
         — Bed and breakfast homestay (provided it is located on a lot which has a minimum
     area of ten thousand square feet);
          — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include conference meeting rooms;



                                                                                           Page 85
    — Boardinghouse;
    — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
    — Day care/preschool center;
    — Dwelling group.
    A.    The development shall comply with the maximum allowable density for the R-M
         zone.
    B.    The distance between the principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards
         required in the zone; provided, however, that at the option of the developer the
         distance between the principal structures may be reduced to ten feet, provided that
         the difference between ten feet and the required side yards is maintained as
         permanently landscaped open space elsewhere on the site. The distance between
         principal buildings and the nearest perimeter lot line shall not be less than fifteen
         feet unless demonstrated by the development plan that the yard required for a
         principal building in the district in which it is located is more appropriate. The
         distance between the building and a public street shall be not less than the front
         yard required in the zoning district, except for corner lots the side yard which faces
         on a public street shall be not less than twenty feet.
    C.    Access shall be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street;
         such private street or right-of-way shall not be less than twenty feet wide for one or
         two rear dwelling units, and not less than thirty feet wide for three or more dwelling
         units.
    D.    A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking
         spaces and vehicular maneuvering areas shall be designed to comply with
         countymetro township standards.
    E.   Every dwelling in the dwelling group shall be within sixty feet of an access roadway
         or drive.
    F.    The development plan shall provide landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of
         this title. Solid visual barrier fences shall be provided along all property lines unless
         the planning commission approves otherwise by deleting or modifying the fence
         requirement.
    G.    The development shall be approved by the development services director and the
         countymetro township fire chief before final approval is given by the planning
         commission.
    — Electrolysis of hair;
    — Golf course;
    — Gymnastics, dance, dramatic, cosmetic, modeling and art studios for instructional
purposes only;
    — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
    — Hospital;
    — Hotel;
    — Lodginghouse;
    — Massage (every massage technician shall be licensed by the state);


                                                                                          Page 86
    — Medical, optical and dental laboratories, but not to include the manufacture of
pharmaceutical or other products for general sale or distribution, and also not to include the
use of animals;
    — Mobile home park;
    — Nursery and greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
    — Nursing home;
    — Office, business and/or professional;
    — Parking lot;
    — Pigeons, subject to health department regulations;
    — Planned unit development;
     — Private educational institutions having an academic curriculum similar to that
ordinarily given in public schools;
    — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
    — Public and quasi-public uses;
    — Rail transit mixed-use, provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.    The planning commission shall determine the density based on the specific
         development proposal, site location and surrounding land uses.
    B.   The property is located within one-quarter mile of a rail station.
    C.   Buildings and impervious areas shall not cover more than eighty percent of the site.
    D.    Office uses shall be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on a
         public street.
    E.   Parking is not allowed between the building and the public street.
    F.    The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet and the side and rear yards shall be
         twenty feet minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two front yards.
    G.    The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation
         of the building must be built within ten feet of the build-to-line or as approved by the
         planning commission.
    H.    The planning commission shall determine the amount of parking required based on
         projected transit usage and other guidelines found in Section 19.80.090, "Planning
         Commission Exceptions."
    I.   All development in the rail transit mixed-use area shall conform to the Rail Transit
         Mixed-Use Development Guidelines adopted by the planning commission. The
         planning commission has the authority to modify or waive guidelines as necessary
         during development review.
    — Reception center and/or wedding chapel;
    — Reiki business provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
    B.   Each practitioner that is not an employee of the business licensee shall have a Salt
         Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township business license.


                                                                                            Page 87
         C.    Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the premises in a state of nudity or
              semi-nudity, as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this
              Code; and
         D.    The premises shall not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47b-501
              of the Utah Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates
              Title 76 of the Utah Criminal Code.
        — Residential development with any number of dwelling units per structure per lot,
    pursuant to Section 19.44.040;
         — Shared parking;
         — Short-term rental provided:
         A.   A full-time manager lives on the property. The full-time manager may be the owner
              of the property; and
         B.    Except for the manager's dwelling unit, all of the dwelling units on the property, lot,
              planned unit development, or dwelling group shall be rental units, short-term or long-
              term.
         — Sportsman's kennel (minimum lot area one acre);
         — Tanning studio;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
    removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are
    not removed within ninety days upon completion of construction and thirty days after notice,
    the buildings will be removed by the countymetro township at the expense of the owner;
         — Veterinary; provided, that:
         A.    The operation is completely enclosed within an air-conditioned soundproofed
              building. The noise from the animals shall not be audible at the property line,
         B.   There is no sale of merchandise on the premises, and
         C.   There is no overnight boarding of animals.



19.44.040 - Lot area.

     The minimum lot area in the R-M zone shall be five thousand square feet for each one-family
dwelling, with seven hundred fifty additional square feet for each additional dwelling unit in a
dwelling structure having more than one dwelling unit. For group dwellings, the minimum lot area
shall be not less than five thousand square feet for the first separate dwelling structure, with three
thousand square feet for each additional separate dwelling structure, and with seven hundred fifty
square feet additional for each additional dwelling unit in excess of one dwelling unit in each
separate dwelling structure, not less than five thousand square feet for any other main building.



19.44.050 - Lot width.




                                                                                              Page 88
    The minimum width of any lot in the R-M zone shall be fifty feet, at a distance twenty-five feet
back from the front lot line.



19.44.060 - Front yard.

     In the R-M zone, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings, and for private
garages which have a minimum side yard of eight feet, shall be twenty-five feet or the average of
the existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in no case less
than fifteen feet. Other private garages and all accessory buildings, other than private garages,
shall be located at least six feet in the rear of the main building.



19.44.070 - Side yard.

     In the R-M zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight feet, and the total
width of the two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen feet. Other main buildings
shall have a minimum side yard of twenty feet, and the total width of the two yards shall be not
less than forty feet. The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except that
private garages and other accessory buildings located in the rear and at least six feet away from
the main building shall have a minimum side yard of not less than one foot, provided that no
private garage or other accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet to a dwelling on
an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street, for both main and accessory
buildings, shall be not less than twenty feet, or the average of existing buildings where fifty percent
or more of the frontage is developed, but in no case less than fifteen feet, or be required to be
more than twenty feet. Dwelling structures over thirty-five feet in height shall have one foot of
additional side yard on each side of the building for each two feet such structure exceeds thirty-
five feet in height.



19.44.080 - Rear yard.

    In R-M zones, the minimum depth of the rear yard for any building shall be thirty feet, and for
accessory buildings one foot; provided that, on corner lots which rear upon the side yard of
another lot, accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such side yard.



19.44.090 - Coverage restrictions.

   No building or group of buildings in an R-M zone, with their accessory buildings, shall cover
more than sixty percent of the area of the lot.



19.44.100 - Building height.



                                                                                               Page 89
A.    No building or structure in an R-M zone shall contain more than six stories or exceed seventy-
     five feet in height, and no dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.   No building which is accessory to a dwelling shall exceed twenty feet in height. For each
          foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set back from property
          lines an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.



19.44.110 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments, multiple dwellings and dwelling groups
shall be determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the
following factors: recommendations of countymetro township and non-countymetro township
agencies; site constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses; and the provisions of the
applicable general plan. Notwithstanding the above, the planning commission shall not approve
a planned unit development with density higher than the following:

              Single-family dwellings               7.0 units per acre

               Two-family dwellings                               12.0 units per acre

              Three-family dwellings                              15.0 units per acre

               Four-family dwellings                              18.0 units per acre

               Multi-family dwellings                            25.0 units per acre*

               Rail transit mixed-use                            No maximum density


 * Where supported by the community general plan, and found by the planning commission to
be compatible with land uses in the vicinity, multi-family residential development which
incorporates innovations of design, amenities, and features, may be approved by the planning
commission for higher densities than shown above, but shall in no case be higher than 32.0
units per acre.



Chapter 19.45 - O-R-D OFFICE RESEARCH PARK AND DEVELOPMENT ZONE



19.45.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the O-R-D zone is to provide an aesthetically attractive environment for
offices, research facilities, environmentally appropriate fabrication and assembly uses and


                                                                                            Page 90
accessory uses. This zone is intended to insure compatibility of new development with the
surrounding land uses through standards that provide an open campus-like setting with attractive
buildings, park-like grounds, and other appropriate amenities supporting employee activity.
Specific measures to mitigate impacts of development will be required at the time of design and
site plan approval.



19.45.020 - Design and site plan approval.

     Design and site plan approval for all development is a conditional use pursuant to the
requirements of Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130 of this title. The conditional use review
shall include but not be limited to architectural design and theme, building materials, lighting,
signage, parking, vehicular, bike and pedestrian access, accessory structures, helicopter pads,
nuisance factors and natural and manmade hazards. Landscaping shall be as specified in
Chapter 19.77 of this title.



19.45.030 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses include:
        — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted or conditional use,    Commented [CW14]: Is there a better way to address
    excluding:                                                                                      this use? Can seem meaningless.

        A.    Processing and compounding of raw materials or food products, and
        B.    Samples of products for display or in conjunction with sales which are not
             assembled or manufactured on the premises, and
        C.    Microwave antennae (see conditional uses), and
        D.    Retail commercial accessory uses (see conditional uses);
        — Agriculture;
        — Bank or financial institution;
        — Copy service;
        — Day care/preschool center;
         — Facilities for the furnishing of meals and sale of refreshments and personal
    convenience items to the employees or visitors of such establishments, and located within
    the building served;
        — Medical, optical and dental laboratories;
        — Office, business or professional;
        — Office supply;
        — Optometrist and/or oculist located within an office building;
        — Pharmacy located within an office building;




                                                                                         Page 91
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings shall be
    removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
    removed within ninety days upon completion of construction and thirty days after notice, the
    buildings will be removed by the countymetro township at the expense of the owner.



19.45.040 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses include:
        — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting
    rooms;
           — Class B beer outlet;
        — Fabrication, assembly and treatment of articles of merchandise from previously
    prepared precious or semiprecious metals or stones;
         — Fabrication, assembly and maintenance of business machines and/or electronic
    instruments, excluding processing and compounding of raw materials;
           — Hotel;
         — Laboratory (other than those listed as a permitted use) which may include scientific
    research, investigation, testing or experimentation including prototype product development
    or incidental pilot plants;
           — Living quarters for caretaker, guard or night watchman;
           — Microwave antennae;
           — Medical supplies assembly;
           — Private educational institution;
           — Private nonprofit locker club;
           — Private school related to research and development;
           — Public and quasi-public uses;
           — Radio and/or television station;
           — Restaurant, excluding drive-through or take-out service;
           — Restaurant liquor license;
           — Retail commercial uses accessory to and/or supporting a permitted use or conditional
    use;
           — Shared parking;
       — Other uses of similar intensity to the above as determined by the planning
    commission.



19.45.050 - Hours of operation.



                                                                                         Page 92
A.    Retail commercial uses shall only be open for business between six a.m. and eleven p.m.
     unless the planning commission approves additional hours.
B.    Commercial garbage and rubbish collection shall only occur between seven a.m. and six
     p.m. if there is a residential zone or residential use within three hundred feet of the collection
     point.



19.45.060 - Outside storage not permitted.

    Outside storage of any stock, motor vehicles (other than parking for employee and visitor
vehicles), or other property is not permitted.



19.45.070 - Project area.

    The project area shall be a minimum of ten acres, but this requirement does not preclude
separate ownership of buildings.



19.45.080 - Yard requirements.

     The minimum yard requirements for all main and accessory buildings are as follows:
     A.   Front yard: fifty feet;
     B.   Side yard:
          1.   Fifty feet if adjacent to a residential or agricultural zone, or facing on a street. The
               side yard shall be increased at least one foot for each additional foot of building
               height above thirty feet;
          2.   Thirty feet if adjacent to other zones.
     C.   Rear yard:
          1.    Fifty feet if adjacent to a residential or agricultural zone, or facing on a street. The
               rear yard shall be increased at least one foot for each additional foot of building
               height above thirty feet;
          2.   Thirty feet if adjacent to other zones.



19.45.090 - Building height.

    The maximum height of a building or structure shall be two stories. The planning commission
may allow additional height to a maximum of six stories where it is determined that additional
height will not adversely impact the surrounding land uses. The planning commission may reduce
the height allowed at locations where a reduction in height is necessary to minimize the impact
on surrounding land uses.


                                                                                                Page 93
19.45.100 - Coverage restrictions.

    A building or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall not cover more than
twenty-five percent of the project area.



19.45.110 - Perimeter wall.

A.    All uses shall have a decorative tinted concrete or masonry wall along all rear and side yards
     not fronting on a public street, which abut a residentially or agriculturally zoned property or a
     residential use. This requirement may be waived by the planning commission upon a
     determination that the wall is not necessary to buffer the adjacent use. Such walls shall not
     be located in the required setback from a public street.
B.    All perimeter walls shall be a minimum of six feet high unless the planning commission
     requires a higher wall as part of the conditional use approval.
C.    The planning commission may allow appropriate access to trails, creeks, or other open
     space amenities.



19.45.120 - Landscaping.

     Landscaping shall be as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.



19.45.130 - Lighting.

A.    Uniformity of lighting is desirable to achieve an overall objective of continuity, and to avoid
     objectionable glare.
B.    The maximum height of luminaries shall be eighteen feet unless the planning commission
     requires a lower height as part of the conditional use approval. The light shall be low intensity,
     shielded from uses on adjoining lots, and directed away from adjacent property in a
     residential or agricultural zone or an adjacent residential or agricultural use.
C.    All parking luminaries, except those required for security, shall be extinguished one hour
     after the end of business hours. The exception for security lighting applies to a maximum of
     twenty-five percent of the total luminaries used, unless the planning commission approves a
     higher percentage.
D.   Pedestrian walkways to mass transit facilities shall be lighted.



19.45.140 - Nuisance factors and hazards.




                                                                                               Page 94
    Operations shall not be conducted which emit offensive or objectionable noise, vibration,
smoke, odors, dust or gases, air pollution, water pollution or generates heavy truck traffic.
Precautions shall be taken in all operations against radiation, radioactivity, fire and explosion
hazards.
     A.    Activities conducted on the premises shall comply with all local, state and federal laws
          and regulations and permits.
     B.    The noise level emanating from any use or operation shall not exceed the limits in the
          health department health regulation number twenty-one, or its successor, regarding
          noise control. The noise level shall not in any case exceed five decibels above the
          ambient level of the area measured at the property line. For the purposes of compliance
          with health regulation number twenty-one all properties located within an office research
          park and development zone shall be considered residential.
     C.    A use shall be not permitted which creates objectionable odor in such quantity as to be
          readily detectable at the boundaries of the site.



19.45.150 - Screening.

A.    All trash or refuse receptacle areas shall be completely screened from surrounding
     properties by a masonry wall that is a minimum of six feet high or shall be enclosed within a
     building. Any trash or refuse receptacle area shall be a minimum of fifty feet from any
     residential or agricultural zone boundary or property containing a residential or agricultural
     use.
B.    All ground mounted mechanical equipment including, but not limited to, heating and air
     conditioning units shall be completely screened from surrounding properties by a masonry
     wall or shall be enclosed within a building.
C.     The use of roof appurtenances is discouraged. If roof appurtenances including, but not
     limited to, air conditioning units and mechanical equipment are used, they shall be placed
     within an enclosure at least as high as the roof appurtenances that reflects the architectural
     design scheme of the project and complies with the requirements for penthouses and roof
     structures of the Uniform Building Code, as adopted by the state. Such enclosures require
     planning commission approval, and shall minimize visibility from on-site parking areas,
     adjacent public streets, and adjacent residentially or agriculturally zoned property. The
     planning commission may require that the enclosure have a roof when it determines that a
     roofed enclosure is necessary to meet the objectives of this section.
D.    All utility connections shall be compatible with the architectural elements of the site and not
     be exposed except where necessary. Pad-mounted transformers and/or meter box locations
     shall be included in the site plan with an appropriate screening treatment. Power lines and
     other utility cables shall be installed underground where possible.
E.    Loading areas and docks shall be screened from public view as specified in Chapter 19.77
     of this title.



19.45.160 - Access and parking.



                                                                                             Page 95
A.    The number of access points along public streets shall be minimized by sharing and linking
     parking areas with adjacent properties. Reciprocal ingress and egress, circulation and
     parking agreements shall be required to facilitate the ease of vehicular movement between
     adjoining properties. On corner sites access points shall be located as far from the corner as
     reasonably possible and in no case less than sixty feet from the point of intersection of the
     property lines. Vehicular circulation shall be designed to preclude the intrusion of traffic
     directly into residential or agricultural areas.
B.    Parking shall be located peripherally around the buildings rather than concentrated between
     the building and the public streets to allow the building to be closer to the mass transit
     facilities.
C.    Parking spaces for vanpool/carpool vehicles shall be provided and have a priority location
     near building entrances to encourage this form of mass transit.
D.    Parking shall not be located in the required front yard setback or the required side yard
     setback which faces on a street.



19.45.170 - Pedestrian walkways.

A.    Pedestrian walkways, a minimum of five feet wide, shall be provided to accommodate
     pedestrian movement between activity centers within the site, to adjacent uses and from
     building entrances directly to mass transit facilities.
B.   Public easements for walkways, jogging paths and similar uses may be required.



19.45.180 - Design considerations.

     In order to meet the purposes of the O-R-D zone, the planning commission shall consider the
following prior to approval of any plan:
     A.    The development shall provide on-site amenities and appropriate buffering to adjacent
          properties and uses.
     B.   The scale of the development shall be in character with the surrounding land uses.
     C.   Safe access shall be provided within the site and to public streets.



19.45.190 - Consistency with general plan.

   Development shall be consistent with the Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township
General Plan.



Chapter 19.46 - RMH RESIDENTIAL MOBILE HOME ZONE




                                                                                           Page 96
19.46.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the RMH zone is to provide appropriate areas for development of mobile
home parks and mobile home subdivisions that are compatible with neighborhoods in the
countymetro township.



19.46.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the RMH zone include:
        — Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to a permitted use;
        — Agriculture;
        — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
        — Household pets.



19.46.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the RMH zone include:
        — Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to a conditional use;
        — Home daycare/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293 of this title;
        — Home occupation;
        — Mobile home (in a mobile home park or in a mobile home subdivision only);
         — Mobile home park that complies with Chapter 15.24 of this code, the mobile home
    ordinance;
        — Mobile home subdivision;
        — Pigeons, subject to the health department health regulations;
        — Planned unit development;
        — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction of mobile home park or mobile
    home subdivision. Such buildings shall be removed upon completion or abandonment of the
    construction work, or at such time specified.



19.46.040 - Mobile home park subdivision—Defined.

    "Mobile home park subdivision" means a subdivision of residential lots intended for the
placement of mobile homes under separate ownership.




                                                                                       Page 97
19.46.050 - Lot area.

    In the RMH zone, the minimum area for the mobile home subdivision shall be five acres. No
minimum area per lot, provided the required yards for each mobile home can be created and
maintained.



19.46.060 - Lot width.

    There is no minimum lot width in the RMH zone.



19.46.070 - Front yard.

     In the RMH zone, each mobile home shall sit back a minimum of seven feet, six inches from
the front property line.



19.46.080 - Side yard.

     In the RMH zone, each mobile home shall maintain a minimum of two seven-foot, six-inch
side yards. Awnings, patio covers, etc., shall not be closer than three feet from any side property
lines. One accessory storage building, not exceeding one hundred twenty cubic feet, is allowed
in one side yard and may be three feet from the property line. On corner lots, there shall be a
minimum seven feet, six inches of unobstructed yard space on the street side of the lot. (No
parking, awnings, patios, storage sheds or fences.)



19.46.090 - Rear yard.

    In the RMH zone, the minimum depth of the rear yard shall be ten feet.



19.46.100 - Exceptions to yards.

    Any yard adjoining a public street must be twenty-five feet in the RMH zone.



19.46.110 - Coverage restrictions.

     In the RMH zone, the front yard, or any space within three feet of the side and rear property
lines, shall not be occupied, and shall be open and unobstructed to the sky. Lot coverage shall




                                                                                           Page 98
not exceed seventy-five percent of the lot. "Occupied" means covered by a mobile home, garage,
carport, cabana, awning, storage building, or structure of any kind.



19.46.120 - Building height.

     In the RMH zone, no mobile home shall contain more than one story, or exceed twelve feet
in height. No accessory building (storage, garage, etc.) shall contain more than one story or
exceed twelve feet in height. Other main buildings (clubhouses, recreation buildings, etc.) shall
not exceed twenty-five feet in height.



19.46.130 - Mobile home subdivision standards and review.

     A mobile home subdivision shall follow the review and approval process, as outlined in the
Salt Lake County subdivision ordinance. Public streets shall meet the standard outlined in the
subdivision ordinance. Private street standards shall be determined by conditional use review and
approval.



19.46.140 - Maintenance—Owner's association responsibility.

     Maintenance of all areas and improvements owned in common by the lot owners, such as
clubhouses, common landscaped areas, recreation facilities, playgrounds, roads, sewer and
water utilities, and electrical systems, shall be the responsibility of an owner's association created
with articles of association and bylaws approved by the attorney.



Chapter 19.48 - A-1 AGRICULTURAL ZONE



19.48.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the A-1 zone is to provide areas in the countymetro township for low-density
residential development, together with limited agricultural uses.



19.48.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the A-1 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Agriculture;



                                                                                              Page 99
        — Animals and fowl for family food production;
        — Apiary;
        — Aviary;
         — Farm devoted to the raising and marketing, on a commercial scale, of chickens,
    turkeys or other fowl or poultry, rabbits, chinchilla, beaver, nutria, fish or frogs;
        — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
        — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
        — Household pets;
        — Raising and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep or goats, provided that such raising or
    grazing is not a part of, nor conducted in conjunction with, any livestock feedyard, livestock
    sales yard, animal byproduct business, or commercial riding academy;
        — Residential facility for elderly persons;
        — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
        — Single-family dwelling;
        — Worm farming (minimum lot area one acre).



19.48.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the A-1 zone include:
        — Airport;
        — Bed and breakfast homestay;
        — Campgrounds;
        — Cemetery;
        — Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260 of this title;
        — Dwelling group.
        A.    The development shall comply with the maximum allowable density for the A-1
             zone.
        B.    The distance between the principal buildings shall be equal to the total side yards
             required in the zone; provided, however, that at the option of the developer, the
             distance between the principal structures may be reduced to ten feet, provided that
             the difference between ten feet and the required side yards is maintained as
             permanently landscaped open space elsewhere on the site. The distance between
             principal buildings and the nearest perimeter lot line shall not be less than fifteen
             feet unless demonstrated by the development plan that the yard required for a
             principal building in the district in which located is more appropriate. The distance
             between the building and a public street shall be not less than the front yard required
             in the zoning district, except for corner lots the side yard which faces on a public
             street shall be not less than twenty feet.




                                                                                           Page 100
    C.    Access shall be provided by a private street or right-of-way from a public street; the
         private street or right-of-way shall not be less than twenty feet wide for one or two
         rear dwelling units and not less than thirty feet wide for three or more dwelling units.
    D.    A minimum of two parking spaces shall be provided for each dwelling unit. Parking
         spaces and vehicular maneuvering areas shall be designed to comply with
         countymetro township standards.
    E.   Every dwelling in the dwelling group shall be within sixty feet of an access roadway
         or drive.
    F.    The development plan shall provide landscaping as specified in Chapter 19.77 of
         this title. Solid visual barrier fences shall be provided along all property lines unless
         the planning commission approves otherwise by deleting or modifying the fence
         requirement.
    G.    The development shall be approved by the development services director and the
         countymetro township fire chief before final approval is given by the planning
         commission.
    — Fruit and/or vegetable stand, provided that the products are produced on the
premises;
    — Golf course;
    — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
    — Milk processing and sale, provided that at least fifty percent of the milk processed or
sold is produced on the premises;
    — Nursery and/or greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
    — Nursing home;
    — Pigeons, subject to health department health regulations;
    — Planned unit development;
    — Plant for storage or packing of fruit or vegetables produced on the premises;
    — Private educational institution having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily
given in public schools;
    — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
    — Public and quasi-public uses;
     — Radio and television transmitting and relay station and tower, excluding business
office or studio, except such control room studio facilities as required for emergency
broadcasts in the event of a national or local disaster;
    — Sportsman's kennel (minimum lot area one acre);
     — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
removed within ninety days upon completion of construction and thirty days after notice, the
buildings will be removed by the countymetro township at the expense of the owner;
    — Two-family dwelling.




                                                                                        Page 101
19.48.040 - Lot area.

     In the A-1 zone, the minimum lot area for any dwelling, school, church, greenhouse, aviary
or apiary, or for the keeping of animals and fowl for family food production, shall be ten thousand
square feet. The minimum lot area for any fowl, poultry, rabbit, fish, chinchilla, beaver, nutria or
frog farm, or for raising or grazing horses, cattle, sheep or goats (except as permitted for family
food production), or for packing or storage plants, shall be one acre. The minimum lot area for
radio and television transmitting and relay stations and towers shall be four acres or more, such
additional area to be sufficient to permit the placement of towers in such a manner that side
clearance in every direction from each and every tower shall be equal to or greater than the height
of the tower.



19.48.050 - Lot width.

     In the A-1 zone, the minimum width of any lot which is required by this chapter to contain a
minimum area of ten thousand square feet shall be sixty-five feet. The minimum width of any lot
which is required by this chapter to contain a minimum area of one acre shall be one hundred
feet. The minimum width of any lot which is required by this chapter to contain a minimum area
of four acres shall be two hundred feet, provided that the minimum width shall be increased above
two hundred feet to the extent necessary to give side clearance in every direction from the base
of any tower to be constructed equal to the height of the tower.



19.48.060 - Front yard.

     In A-1 zones, the minimum depth of the front yard for main buildings and for private garages
which have a minimum side yard of eight feet shall be thirty feet, or the average of the existing
buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, provided that in no case shall
the front yard be less than twenty feet, or be required to be more than thirty feet. All accessory
buildings, other than private garages which have a side yard of at least eight feet, shall be located
at least six feet in the rear of the main building.



19.48.070 - Side yard.

A.    Dwellings and Accessory Buildings. In the A-1 zone, the minimum side yard for any dwelling
     shall be eight feet, and the total width of the two required side yards shall be not less than
     eighteen feet. The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet, except that
     private garages and other accessory buildings located in the rear and at least six feet away
     from the main building shall be a minimum side yard of not less than one foot, provided that
     no private garage or other accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet to a
     dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street for both
     main and accessory buildings shall be not less than twenty feet, or the average of existing
     buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in no case less than
     fifteen feet, or be required to be more than twenty feet.



                                                                                            Page 102
B.    Other Buildings. The minimum side yard shall be ten feet, and the total width of the two
     required side yards shall be not less than twenty feet. Minimum side yard provisions of this
     section shall apply to all structures, including guy wires for the support of any towers
     constructed under this chapter.



19.48.080 - Rear yard.

     In the A-1 zone, the minimum depth of the rear yard for any main building shall be thirty feet,
and for accessory buildings one foot; provided, that on corner lots which rear upon the side yard
of another lot, accessory buildings shall be located not closer than ten feet to such side yard.



19.48.090 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed
     the following height:
     1.   Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen
          percent or the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be
          determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of
          elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the building or
          structure. The box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line,
          whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or structure. The elevation
          shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval
          of two feet;
     2.   Thirty-five feet on other properties;
     3.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.   No building which is accessory to a dwelling shall exceed twenty feet in height. For each
          foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set back from property
          lines an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.



19.48.100 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments and dwelling groups shall be
determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the following
factors: recommendations of countymetro township and non-countymetro township agencies; site
constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses; and the provisions of the applicable general plan.
Notwithstanding, the planning commission shall not approve a planned unit development with
density higher than the following:

                Single-family dwellings                  4.0 units per acre




                                                                                           Page 103
                 Two-family dwellings                             8.0 units per acre




19.48.110 - Division of two-family dwelling.

    A lot containing a two-family dwelling may be subdivided, creating a new lot line along the
shared common wall and extending to the front and rear property lines, subject to the following
conditions:
    A.   The minimum area of the lot containing each unit shall be five thousand square feet.
    B.   The division of ground is subject to the requirements of the Salt Lake CountyCopperton
         Metro Township Subdivision Ordinance (Title 18).
    C.    The subdivision plat shall specifically note that the purpose of the subdivision is to
         accommodate the division of a two-family dwelling.



Chapter 19.50 - A-2 AGRICULTURE ZONE



19.50.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the A-2 zone is to provide areas in the countymetro township for low-density
residential development and agricultural uses.



19.50.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the A-2 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Agriculture;
         — Animals and fowl for family food production;
         — Apiary;
         — Aviary;
        — Farm devoted to raising (including fattening as incident to raising), slaughtering,
    dressing and marketing on a commercial scale of chickens, turkeys or other fowl or poultry,
    rabbits, chinchilla, beaver, nutria, fish or frogs;
         — Fruit and vegetable storage and packing plant;
         — Grain storage elevator;


                                                                                       Page 104
        — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
        — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
        — Household pets;
        — Raising and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep or goats, including the supplementary
    feeding of such animals, providing that such raising or grazing is not part of nor conducted in
    conjunction with any livestock feed yard, livestock sales yard, slaughterhouse, animal
    byproduct business, or commercial riding academy;
        — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
        — Single-family dwelling;
        — Sugar beet loading station and dump site;
        — Worm farming (minimum lot area, one acre).



19.50.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the A-2 zone include:
        — Agriculture experimental station;
        — Airport;
        — Animal hospital;
        — Bed and breakfast homestay;
        — Campgrounds;
        — Cemetery, etc.;
        — Correctional institutions;
        — Dairy or creamery;
        — Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;
        — Dog breeding establishment; dog kennel; dog pound; dog training school;
        — Dude ranch;
        — Egg candling and sales;
        — Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacturing, processing and sales, provided that no
    objectionable odors are created;
        — Fruit and/or vegetable stand;
        — Fur farm;
         — Gasohol production for private use only, alcohol storage not to exceed two hundred
    gallons;
        — Golf course;
        — Gun club;
        — Hay chopping;


                                                                                          Page 105
        — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
        — Livestock feed yard and/or sales yard;
        — Manure spreading, processing, drying and sales;
        — Milk processing and sales;
        — Nursery and/or greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
        — Nursing home;
        — Open storage, sales and rental of irrigation pipe;
        — Organic disposal site (minimum lot area, fifty acres);
        — Pigeons, subject to health department health regulations;
        — Planned unit development;
        — Plant for storage or packing of fruits or vegetables;
        — Private educational institution having an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily
    given in public schools;
        — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
        — Public and quasi-public use;
        — Public stable;
         — Radio and television tower; radio transmitting station; business office; studio and relay
    station;
        — Residential facility for elderly persons;
        — Riding academy;
        — Rodeo grounds;
        — Sanitarium;
        — Slaughterhouse;
        — Soil composting manufacture and sales;
        — Sportsman's kennel (minimum lot area, one acre);
        — Stockyard;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which buildings must be
    removed upon completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not
    removed within ninety days upon completion of construction and thirty days after notice, the
    buildings will be removed by the countymetro township at the expense of the owner;
        — Veterinary.



19.50.040 - Lot area.

    The minimum lot area in the A-2 zone shall be one acre. For radio and television towers, see
Section 19.48.040.



                                                                                           Page 106
19.50.050 - Lot width.

    The minimum width of a lot in the A-2 zone shall be one hundred feet. For radio and television
towers, see Section 19.48.050.



19.50.060 - Front yard.

    The minimum depth of the front yard in A-2 zones shall be thirty feet.



19.50.070 - Side yard.

    In A-2 zones, the minimum side yard shall be ten feet. On corner lots, the side yard which
faces a street shall be a minimum of twenty feet. For radio and television towers, see Section
19.48.070.



19.50.080 - Rear yard.

    The minimum depth of the rear yard in A-2 zones shall be thirty feet.



19.50.090 - Building height.

    None.



19.50.100 - Coverage restrictions.

     In A-2 zones, no building or structure or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings,
shall cover more than seventy percent of the lot area.



Chapter 19.52 - A-5, A-10 AND A-20 AGRICULTURAL ZONES



19.52.010 - Purpose of provisions.




                                                                                         Page 107
     The purpose of the A-5, A-10 and A-20 zones is to promote and preserve, in appropriate
areas of the countymetro township, conditions favorable to agriculture. To this end, the A districts
are intended to include activities normally related to agricultural uses and to protect the district
from the intrusion of uses inimical to the continuance of agricultural activity.



19.52.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the A-5, A-10 and A-20 zones include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Agriculture;
         — Apiary;
         — Aviary;
         — Farms devoted to raising (including fattening), slaughtering, dressing and marketing
    as incident to raising of chickens, turkeys or other fowl, rabbits, chinchilla, beaver, nutria, fish
    or frogs;
         — Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
         — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
         — Household pets;
        — Raising and grazing of horses, cattle, sheep or goats, including the supplementary
    feeding of such animals, providing that such raising or grazing is not part of nor conducted in
    conjunction with any livestock feed yard, livestock sales yard, slaughterhouse, animal
    byproduct business, or commercial riding academy;
         — Residential facility for elderly persons;
         — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
         — Single-family dwelling; ranch buildings and structures;
         — Sugar beet loading station and dump site;
         — Two-family dwelling;
         — Worm farming.



19.52.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the A-5, A-10 and A-20 zones include:
         — Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to conditional uses;
         — Agriculture experimental station;
         — Airport;
         — Bed and breakfast homestay;
         — Cemetery;


                                                                                              Page 108
    — Dairy or creamery, milk processing and sales of dairy products produced on the
premises;
    — Day care/preschool center, subject to Section 19.76.260;
    — Dog breeding establishment; dog kennel, dog pound; dog training school;
    — Dude ranch;
    — Egg candling and sales of poultry products produced on the premises;
    — Fur farm;
     — Gasohol production for private use only, alcohol storage not to exceed two hundred
gallons;
    — Golf course;
    — Gun club; hunting club;
    — Hay chopping;
    — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
    — Hog ranch;
    — Living quarters for persons employed on the premises;
    — Nursery and/or greenhouse, excluding retail sales;
    — Open storage, sales and rental of irrigation pipe;
    — Organic disposal site (minimum lot area, fifty acres);
    — Pigeons, subject to health department health regulations;
    — Plant for storage or packing of fruits or vegetables;
    — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
    — Public and quasi-public use;
    — Public stable; riding academy; rodeo grounds;
     — Radio and television tower; transmitting station; business office; studio and relay
station;
    — Sanitary landfill;
    — Solar evaporation pond for the processing of salt;
    — Stands for the retail sales of products on the premises;
     — The following uses, provided they are a minimum of five hundred feet from any
residential use:
    A.   Livestock feed yard and/or sales yard,
    B.    Manufacture of fertilizer and soil conditioner or compost processing and sales,
         provided that no objectionable odors are created,
    C.   Slaughterhouse; stockyard;
    — Veterinary.




                                                                                 Page 109
19.52.040 - Lot area, width and yard regulations.

     The minimum lot area and lot width in the A-5, A-10 and A-20 zones may include public or
private streets. The area in right-of-way shall not exceed twenty-five percent of the minimum lot
area. Minimum yard requirements will be measured from the right-of-way line.

    District        Lot Area            Lot Width           Front           Side            Rear

     A-20           20 acres            200 feet           50 feet         20 feet         50 feet

     A-10           10 acres            200 feet           50 feet         20 feet         50 feet

     A-5             5 acres            200 feet           50 feet         20 feet         50 feet




19.52.050 - Building height.

     Except as otherwise provided by the term of a conditional use permit, no structure in the A-
5, A-10 and A-20 zones shall exceed a height equal to the distance between such structure and
the nearest property line of the parcel on which it is situated.



Chapter 19.54 - FA-2.5, FA-5, FA-10 AND FA-20 FOOTHILL AGRICULTURE ZONES



19.54.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the foothill agricultural zones is to permit the development of the foothill areas
of the county for rural residential, limited agricultural, limited animals and other specified uses, to
the extent such development is compatible with the natural environment of these areas,
particularly the natural slopes, vegetation, and fragile soils.



19.54.020 - Permitted uses.

    The following uses are permitted in the FA zones subject to meeting all applicable
requirements set forth in this chapter and ordinance relating to site and lot dimensions,
development standards, and other regulations.
    A.     Accessory uses and structures customarily incident to a permitted use;


                                                                                              Page 110
    B.   Agriculture, as defined in Section 19.04.020 of this title;
    C.   Animals and fowl for family food production, as defined in Section 19.04.235; household
         pets; a maximum of four horses for private use only;
    D.   Home business, subject to Chapter 19.85;
    E.   Home day care/preschool for six or fewer children subject to the conditions set forth in
         Section 19.04.293;
    F.   Residential facility for persons with a disability;
    G.   Single-family dwelling;
    H.   Wireless telecommunication facilities, provided:
         1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is a wall-mounted or roof-mounted facility,
              and
         2.   The facility is mounted on a nonresidential building, and
         3.   A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as
              part of the required site plan, and
         4.    All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless
              Telecommunications Facilities," are satisfied.



19.54.030 - Conditional uses.

     The following conditional uses are subject to the requirements of this chapter and subject to
the conditions, criteria, and approval procedures set forth in Chapter 19.84, "Conditional Uses."
    A.   Accessory uses and structures customarily incidental to a conditional use;
    B.   Bed and breakfast homestay, provided:
         1.    The access to the site and the on-site parking are available for use and maintained,
              including snow removal, throughout the entire year, and
         2.   An approved drinking water supply and wastewater disposal system is available that
              is capable of supporting the use throughout the entire year, and is approved by the
              health department prior to issuance of a license;
    C.    Home day care/preschool, for no fewer than seven nor more than twelve children,
         subject to the conditions set forth in Section 19.04.293;
    D.   Pigeons, subject to health department health regulations;
    E.    Planned unit development subject to the conditions and requirements set forth in
         Chapter 19.78, "Planned Unit Developments";
    F.   Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
    G.   Public and quasi-public use;
    H.   Residential facility for elderly persons;
    I.   Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, which building must be
         removed upon the completion or abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings



                                                                                          Page 111
            are not removed within ninety days upon completion of construction work and thirty days
            after notice, the building will be removed by the county at the expense of the owner;
      J.    Wireless telecommunication facilities, as that term and all related terms are defined in
            Section 19.83.020, provided:
            1.   The wireless telecommunication facility is either a wall-mounted, roof-mounted, or
                 monopole facility. Facilities located on lattice towers are prohibited, and
            2.   Any grading for the facility, including access roads and trenching for utilities, shall
                 comply with the Uniform Building Code, and
            3.   The facility complies with the requirements for development set forth in the foothills
                 and canyons overlay zone, Chapter 19.72, including development standards for
                 grading, wildlife habitat protection, tree and vegetation protection, natural hazards,
                 and utilities, and standards for establishing limits of disturbance, and
            4.   Site placement and facility color shall be carefully considered to blend in with the
                 natural surroundings, and
            5.    Continuous outside lighting is prohibited unless required by the FAA for monopole
                 facilities, and
            6.   The maximum height for monopole facilities shall be sixty feet, and
            7.    A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structure is submitted as
                 part of the required site plan and shall show all structures including but not limited
                 to monopoles, antennas, and equipment buildings, and
            8.    All other applicable requirements set forth in Chapter 19.83, "Wireless
                 Telecommunications Facilities," are satisfied.



19.54.040 - Lot area, lot width, density, and slope regulations.

A.     Lot Width, Lot Area, and Density Requirements. In the foothill agricultural zones, the
      minimum lot area may include private rights-of-way, except that the area in the right-of-way
      shall not exceed twenty-five percent of the minimum lot area:

                                                                    Maximum Residential Density
 District        Minimum Lot Width        Minimum Lot Area
                                                                    (dwelling units per gross area)

 FA-2.5               250 feet                2.5 acres               1 d.u. per 2.5 gross acres

     FA-5             300 feet                 5 acres                 1 d.u. per 5 gross acres

 FA-10                300 feet                 10 acres               1 d.u. per 10 gross acres

 FA-20                300 feet                 20 acres               1 d.u. per 20 gross acres




                                                                                               Page 112
B.   Measurement of Lot Width. The minimum lot width of any lot shall be measured at a distance
     of fifty feet from the front lot line.
C.    Slope Requirements. All development in the FA zones shall be subject to the slope protection
     standards set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030B, "Slope
     Protection Standards" and Section 19.72.030D, "Streets/Roads and General Site Access."            Commented [CW15]: If the FA zone is retained in the
                                                                                                       ordinance, 19.72.030B must be changed to 19.72.060
                                                                                                       “Slope Protection,” and 19.72.030D changed to 19.72.080
                                                                                                       “Site Access.”

19.54.050 - Limits of disturbance/setbacks.

     Because of the unique nature of the soils and topography in the foothill areas, limits of
disturbance and setbacks for permitted uses including single-family dwellings and accessory
structures in the FA zones shall be determined on a case-by-case basis by the development
services director. Limits of disturbance and setbacks for conditional uses shall be as approved by
the planning commission upon the recommendation of the development services director (see
Chapter 19.72). All determinations of limits of disturbance shall be subject to the conditions and
criteria set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.040, "Establishment of
limits of disturbance."                                                                                Commented [CW16]: Change to 19.72.160 “Limits of
                                                                                                       Disturbance.”



19.54.060 - Building height.

A.    Except as otherwise specifically provided in this title, no building or structure shall exceed
     the following heights:
     1.    Thirty feet on property where the original slope exceeds fifteen percent or the property
          is located in the foothills and canyons overlay zone. For purposes of this section, the
          slope shall be determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the
          lowest point of elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of
          the building or structure. The box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the
          property line, whichever is less, around the foundation line of the building or structure.
          The elevation shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum
          contour interval of two feet.
     2.   Thirty-five feet on all other properties.
     3.   No dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.
B.   Accessory Buildings.
     1.    No building which is accessory to a single-family dwelling shall exceed twenty feet in
          height. For each foot of height over fourteen feet, accessory buildings shall be set back
          from property lines an additional foot to allow a maximum height of twenty feet.



19.54.070 - Natural hazards.

     Construction of permanent structures in the FA zones in areas subject to natural hazards,
including floods, landslides, unstable soils, and avalanches, shall be subject to the requirements



                                                                                           Page 113
and limitations set forth in Chapter 19.74, "Floodplain Hazard Regulations," and Chapter 19.75,
"Natural Hazard Areas."



19.54.080 - Soils reports.

     Because of the fragile nature of the soils in some areas of the foothills within the FA zones,
the development services director or planning commission may require the applicant to submit a
soils report prepared by a qualified soils engineer to verify the suitability of soils for the intended
use. If the property is subject to the requirements set forth in Section 19.54.070 of this chapter,
the soils report may be combined with any required natural hazards report.



19.54.090 - Grading.

    To eliminate the possibility of erosion and unsightly scars on the foothill slopes, grading shall
be permitted only in conformance with the standards and limitations set forth in the foothills and
canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030C, "Grading Standards."                                            Commented [CW17]: Change to 19.72.070




19.54.100 - Tree and vegetation protection.

    Removal of trees or natural vegetation shall not be permitted except in conformance with the
standards and requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section
19.72.030H, "Tree and Vegetation Protection."                                                             Commented [CW18]: Change to 19.72.110




19.54.110 - Maintenance of animals and fowl.

    Animals and fowl shall be maintained in such a way to prevent dust, odors, loss of vegetation
and loss of topsoil due to erosion. In some areas due to the fragile soils and sparse vegetative
cover, the planning commission may require that all animals and fowl are kept in an enclosed
area. At the time any building permit is applied for, the planning commission may designate the
areas of the lot suitable for maintenance of animals and fowl.



19.54.120 - Utilities.

   All utilities in the FA zones shall be placed underground, except as may be provided for in
Chapter 19.79, "Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations."



19.54.130 - Building location, construction and design.



                                                                                              Page 114
     All buildings and accessory structures in the FA zones, including single-family dwellings, shall
be located, constructed, and designed in compliance with the development standards set forth in
the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.030, "Development standards," and in
Chapter 19.73 of this title, "Foothills and Canyons Site Development and Design Standards."              Commented [CW19]: Change to 19.72.170 “Design
                                                                                                         Standards.”



19.54.140 - Site development plan approval.

    All development in the FA zone, including single-family dwellings, shall be approved prior to
issuance of any building permits pursuant to the site development plan approval process and
requirements set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone, Section 19.72.050, "Approval
procedures for development in the foothills and canyons overlay zone."                                   Commented [CW20]: Change to 19.72.030
                                                                                                         “Development approval procedures.”



19.54.150 - Applicability to lots of record and waivers from slope requirements.

A.    Applicable to Lots of Record. All standards and requirements for development in the FA
     zones as set forth in this chapter shall apply to development on lots and in subdivisions that
     were recorded prior to the enactment date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
B.    Lots of Record—Waivers from Slope Requirements. For properties in the FA zones also
     located in the foothills and canyons overlay zone (see Chapter 19.72), the planning
     commission may waive grade requirements for streets/roads and slope protection
     requirements for lots of record and lots and plans of subdivisions that were approved prior to
     the enactment of Chapter 19.72, provided the conditions and criteria set forth in Section
     19.72.060A are satisfied.                                                                           Commented [CW21]: Change to 19.72 for waivers




Chapter 19.55 - MD-1 AND MD-3 MIXED DEVELOPMENT ZONES



19.55.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the mixed use development zone is to provide a variety of uses (limited
commercial, office and residential) as an appropriate transition between high-traffic arterial streets
and nearby residential uses. This district is intended to ensure compatibility of new development
and residential conversions with existing and future residential development. It is also intended to
ensure as well as encourage assemblage of properties in a unified plan with a coordinated and
harmonious development which will promote outstanding design without unsightly and unsafe
strip commercial development. Specific measures to mitigate negative impacts of mixed use
developments include standards for perimeter walls, vehicular access, lighting, signage, etc.,
which will be required at the time of design and site plan approval. Landscaping shall be as
specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.




                                                                                             Page 115
19.55.020 - Design and site plan approval.

       Design and site plan approval including, but not limited to, architecture, building materials,
lighting, signage, vehicular access and noise for all development in the MD-1 and MD-3 zones is
required by the planning commission as a conditional use pursuant to the requirements of
Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130. Landscaping shall be as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this
title.



19.55.030 - Permitted uses.

A.   Permitted uses in the MD-1 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted use or a
     conditional use;
         — Agriculture;
         — Antique shop;
         — Art gallery;
         — Art needlework shop;
         — Art shop and/or artist supply;
         — Bank or financial institution;
         — Barber shop;
         — Beauty shop;
         — Bed and breakfast homestay;
         — Boardinghouse;
         — China and/or silver shop;
         — Copy service;
         — Floral shop;
         — Gift shop;
         — Greeting card sales;
         — Handicraft shop;
         — Hobby and/or crafts shop;
         — Home occupation;
         — Household pets;
         — Key and lock service;
         — Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;
         — Medical, optical and dental labs;
         — Notions;



                                                                                            Page 116
        — Office, business or professional;
        — Optometrist and/or oculist;
        — Parking lot;
        — Photographer;
        — Public and quasi-public uses;
        — Residential facility for elderly persons;
        — Residential facility for persons with a disability;
        — Stationery shop;
        — Tailor shop;
        — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work.
B.   Permitted uses in the MD-3 zone include:
Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to a permitted use or a conditional use;

        — Agriculture;
        — Antique shop;
        — Art gallery;
        — Art needlework shop;
        — Art shop and/or artist supply;
        — Bank or financial institution;
        — Barber shop;
        — Beauty shop;
        — Bed and breakfast homestay;
        — Boardinghouse;
        — Bookstore;
        — China and/or silver service;
        — Copy service;
        — Floral shop;
        — Gift shop;
        — Greeting card sales;
        — Handicraft shop;
        — Health food store;
        — Hobby and/or crafts shop;
        — Household pets;
        — Key and lock service;
        — Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;



                                                                                        Page 117
        — Medical, optical and dental labs;
        — Notions;
        — Office, business or professional;
        — Office supply;
        — Optometrist and/or oculist;
        — Parking lot;
        — Pharmacy;
        — Photographer;
        — Public and quasi-public uses;
        — Residential facility for elderly persons;
        — Stationery shop;
        — Tailor shop;
        — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work;
        — Travel bureau.



19.55.040 - Conditional uses.

A.   Conditional uses in the MD-1 zone include:
         — Bed and breakfast inn; which may include a restaurant and conference meeting
     rooms;
        — Bicycle shop;
        — Bookstore;
        — Class B beer outlet;
        — Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing agency;
        — Day care/preschool center;
        — Health food store;
        — Laundry, automatic self-help type;
        — Lodginghouse;
        — Nursery and greenhouse excluding retail sales;
        — Nursing home;
        — Planned unit development;
        — Private educational institution;
        — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
        — Reception center;



                                                                               Page 118
         — Residential uses with a maximum density of seven units/acre, including group
     dwellings, planned unit developments, apartments, multiple dwellings, etc.;
         — Restaurant, excluding fast-food or drive-through window;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Shared parking;
         — Shoe repair shop;
         — Short-term rental;
         — Tanning studio;
         — Veterinary, provided the operation is completely enclosed within an air-conditioned
     soundproofed building. The noise from the animals shall not be audible at the property line;
         — Wedding chapel.
B.   Conditional uses in the MD-3 zone include:
         — Bed and breakfast inn; which may include a restaurant and conference meeting
     rooms;
         — Bicycle shop;
         — Bookstore;
         — Class B beer outlet;
         — Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing agency;
         — Day care/preschool center;
         — Gymnastics, dance, dramatic, cosmetic, modeling and art studios;
         — Health food store;
         — Laundry, automatic self-help type;
         — Lodginghouse;
         — Mortuary;
         — Music store;
         — Nursery and greenhouse;
         — Nursing home;
         — Planned unit development;
         — Private educational institution;
         — Private nonprofit recreational grounds and facilities;
         — Reception center;
         — Residential uses with a maximum density of twelve units/acre, including group
     dwellings, planned unit developments, apartments, multiple dwellings, etc.;
         — Restaurant, excluding fast-food or drive-through window;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Shared parking;


                                                                                        Page 119
         — Shoe repair shop;
         — Short-term rental;
         — Tanning studio;
        — Veterinary, provided the operation is completely enclosed within an air-conditioned
    soundproofed building. The noise from the animals shall not be audible at the property line;
         — Wedding chapel.



19.55.050 - Hours of operation.

    Commercial uses shall not be open for business before six a.m. or after eleven p.m.



19.55.060 - Businesses and uses—Conditions.

     The uses specified in this chapter for the MD-1 and MD-3 zones shall be permitted only under
the following conditions:
    A.   No manufacturing is allowed;
    B.    No outside storage of any stock, motor vehicles or other property is allowed except for
         two delivery vehicles three-quarter ton or smaller.



19.55.070 - Area and width.

    In the MD-1 and MD-3 zones the minimum lot area and width shall be as follows:
    A.   MD-1 Zone.
         1.   Minimum lot area: one acre;
         2.   Minimum lot width: two hundred feet.
    B.   MD-3 Zone.
         1.   Minimum lot area: three acres;
         2.   Minimum lot width: two hundred fifty feet.



19.55.080 - Yard requirements.

     In the MD-1 and MD-3 zones the minimum yard requirements for all main and accessory
buildings are as follows:
    A.   MD-1 Zone.
         1.   Front yard: thirty feet;


                                                                                        Page 120
          2.   Side yard: thirty feet;
          3.   Rear yard: thirty feet.
     B.   MD-3 Zone.
          1.   Front yard: thirty feet;
          2.   Side yard: thirty feet;
          3.   Rear yard: thirty feet.
The planning commission may vary the yard requirements for conversion of an existing use to a
mixed development use.



19.55.090 - Building height.

A.    No building or structure located in an MD-1 zone shall contain more than one and one-half
     stories or exceed twenty feet in height.
B.    No building or structure located in an MD-3 zone shall contain more than three stories, except
     a building or structure located within fifty feet of a residential zone boundary line or a
     residential use shall not contain more than two stories.
C.   No residential building shall contain less than one story.
D.    The planning commission may vary the height requirements for conversion of an existing
     use to a mixed development use.



19.55.100 - Coverage restrictions.

     In the MD-1 and MD-3 zones no building or group of buildings with their accessory buildings,
shall cover more than forty percent of the area of the lot.



19.55.110 - Perimeter wall.

     All mixed use developments shall have a decorative tinted concrete or masonry wall on all
rear and side yards not fronting on a public street.
    All perimeter walls shall be a minimum of six feet high unless the planning commission
requires a higher wall as part of the conditional use approval.



19.55.120 - Landscaping.

     Landscaping shall be as specified in Chapter 19.77 of this title.




                                                                                           Page 121
19.55.130 - Lighting.

     The maximum height of luminaries shall be eighteen feet unless the planning commission
requires a lower height as part of the conditional use approval. The light shall be low intensity,
shielded from uses on adjoining lots, and directed away from adjacent property in a residential
zone or an adjacent residential use. All parking luminaries, except those required for security,
must be extinguished one hour after the end of business hours. The exception for security lighting
applies to twenty-five percent of the total luminaries used, unless the planning commission
approves a higher percentage as part of the conditional use approval.



19.55.140 - Noise.

     The noise level emanating from any use or operation shall not exceed the limits in the health
department health regulation number twenty-one, or its successor, regarding noise control. The
noise level shall not in any case exceed five decibels above the ambient level of the area
measured at the property line. For the purposes of compliance with health regulation number
twenty-one all properties located within a mixed development zone shall be considered
residential.



19.55.150 - Screening.

     When off-street parking areas are situated across the street from a property in a residential
zone, a masonry wall or berm a minimum of three feet in height shall be erected in the landscaped
front yard or landscaped side yard which faces on a street on corner lots to adequately screen
the parking areas from the residential properties.
B.    All ground-mounted mechanical equipment including, but not limited to, heating and air
     conditioning units, and trash receptacle areas shall be completely screened from surrounding
     properties by a masonry wall or shall be enclosed within a building.
C.    The design of all roof appurtenances including, but not limited to, air conditioning units, and
     mechanical equipment shall be approved by the planning commission to minimize visibility
     from on-site parking areas, adjacent public street and adjacent residentially zoned property.
D.    All utility connections shall be designed to be compatible with the architectural elements of
     the site so as not to be exposed except where necessary. Pad-mounted transformers and/or
     meter box locations shall be included in the site plan with an appropriate screening treatment.
     Power lines and other utility cables shall be installed underground where possible.



19.55.160 - Access.

    The number of access points along public streets shall be minimized by sharing and linking
parking areas with adjacent properties. Reciprocal ingress and egress, circulation and parking
agreements shall be required to facilitate the ease of vehicular movement between adjoining
properties. On corner sites access points shall be located as far from the corner as reasonably
possible and in no case less than forty feet from the point of intersection of the property lines.


                                                                                            Page 122
Vehicular circulation shall be designed to limit the intrusion of traffic into residential areas, and
minimize access on streets used by schoolchildren.



19.55.170 - Odor.

    No use shall be permitted which creates odor in such quantity as to be readily detectable
beyond the boundaries of the site.



19.55.180 - Design considerations.

     In order to meet the purposes of this chapter the planning commission shall consider the
following prior to approval of any plan:
    A.   Lots should be accumulated to provide the minimum lot area. Individual lots with an area
         smaller than the minimum lot area are not suitable for a mixed development.
    B.   The development shall provided on-site amenities and appropriate buffering to adjacent
         properties and uses.
    C.    The scale of the development shall be in character with the surrounding land uses.
    D.    Safe access shall be provided within the site and to public streets.
    E.   The development shall have a residential character if adjacent to residential areas.



19.55.190 - Consistency with general plan.

    Mixed development uses shall be consistent with the county general plan.



Chapter 19.56 - C-1 COMMERCIAL ZONE



19.56.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the C-1 zone is to provide areas in the countymetro township for
neighborhood commercial development.



19.56.020 - Commercial developments over twenty-one thousand square feet.




                                                                                            Page 123
       Commercial developments in the C-1 zone over twenty-one thousand square feet shall follow
the conditional use permit procedure pursuant to Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130 of this
title.



19.56.030 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the C-1 zone include:
        — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
        — Art needlework shop;
        — Art shop and/or artist supply;
        — Athletic goods store;
        — Baby formula service; baby diaper service; babysitter agency;
        — Bakery;
        — Bank;
        — Barbershop;
        — Beauty shop;
        — Bicycle shop;
        — Bookstore;
        — Cafeteria; catering establishment;
        — Candy store; confectionery;
        — China and/or silver shop;
        — Class A beer outlet;
        — Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing agency;
        — Clothing store (limited to a maximum of three thousand square feet of total floor area);
        — Florist shop;
        — Fruit or fruit juice store; fruit and/or vegetable stand;
        — Gift shop;
        — Greenhouse;
        — Health food store;
        — Ice cream shop;
         — Ice vendor units and/or reach-in ice merchandiser units; electrical icemaker units; ice
    storage of not more than five tons' capacity;
        — Key and lock service;
        — Laundry, automatic self-help type; laundry agency;
        — Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;



                                                                                         Page 124
        — Medical and dental clinic and laboratories;
        — Newsstand;
        — Notions;
        — Nurses' agency;
        — Office, business or professional;
        — Optometrist and/or oculist;
        — Pet shop;
        — Photographer and/or sale of photographic supplies;
        — Popcorn and/or nut shop;
        — Radio and television sales and repair;
        — Shoeshine shop; shoe repair shop;
        — Stationery and greeting card sales;
        — Tailor shop.



19.56.040 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the C-1 zone include:
        — Ambulance service;
        — An apartment attached to and on the same parcel as an automobile service station
    and occupied by a manager or other employee;
        — Antique shop without outside display;
         — Automobile service center which is limited to tune-ups, lubrication and oil change,
    front-end alignment and brake repair, providing there is not outside storage of parts or
    material;
        — Automobile service station, excluding the repairing, painting or upholstering of motor
    vehicles; automatic automobile carwash, not to exceed four wash bays;
        — Baking, ice cream making and/or candy making incidental to retail sales serving not
    more than three outlets in the countymetro township and employing not more than three
    persons;
        — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting
    rooms;
        — Class C fireworks store;
        — Copy service;
        — Day care/preschool center;
        — Delicatessen;
        — Dog and cat groomery, excluding overnight boarding;



                                                                                       Page 125
— Drugstore;
— Frozen food locker incidental to a main grocery store or food business;
— Grocery;
— Home occupation;
— Massage (every massage technician shall be licensed by the state);
— Milk distributing station and sales of dairy products, excluding processing or bottling;
— Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:
A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
     landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the countymetro township.
B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure,
     a minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not
     obstructing access to the property.
C.   Compliance with the sign ordinance.
D.   The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
     intersecting streets.
F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
— Parking lot;
— Planned unit development;
— Private school;
— Public and quasi-public use;
— Reception center and/or wedding chapel;
— Reiki business provided it meets the following requirements:
A.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
B.   Each practitioner that is not an employee of the business licensee shall have a Salt
     Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township business license.
C.    Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the premises in a state of nudity or
     semi-nudity, as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this
     Code; and
D.    The premises shall not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47b-501
     of the Utah Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates
     Title 76 of the Utah Criminal Code.
— Resource recycling collection point provided it meets the following requirements:
A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
     landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the countymetro township.
B.   All material shall be contained within an enclosed container.
C.   The structures or bins comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
D.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.


                                                                                   Page 126
         E.   Maintenance of the site in a clean, neat and orderly manner.
         — Restaurant;
         — Shared parking;
         — Tanning studio;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters
    for a guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon completion or
    abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not removed within ninety days
    upon completion of construction, and thirty days after notice, the buildings will be removed
    by the countymetro township at the expense of the owner.



19.56.050 - Businesses and retail shops—Conditions.

    The stores, shops or businesses designated above in this chapter shall be retail
establishments only, and shall be permitted only under the following conditions:
    A.    Such business shall be conducted wholly within an enclosed building, except for the
         parking and servicing of automobiles, and service to people in automobiles;
    B.    All products, whether primary or incidental, shall be sold at retail on the premises; no
         entertainment, except music, shall be permitted in cafes, confectioneries or refreshment
         stands;
    C.    All uses shall be free from objection because of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or
         other causes.



19.56.060 - Front yard.

   In C-1 zones, the minimum depth of the front yard for all buildings, structures, walls or fences
more than two feet in height shall be twenty feet.



19.56.070 - Side yard.

     None; except that wherever a building in the C-1 zone is located upon a lot adjacent to a
residential zone or agricultural zone boundary, there shall be provided a side yard of not less than
ten feet on the side of the building adjacent to the zone boundary line, and on corner lots the side
yard which faces on a street shall be not less than twenty feet.



19.56.080 - Rear yard.

     None; except that in the C-1 zone, on corner lots which rear upon the side yard of another lot
in a residential or agricultural zone, the minimum rear yard shall be ten feet.



                                                                                           Page 127
19.56.090 - Building height.

    No building or structure in the C-1 zone shall contain more than two and one-half stories, or
exceed thirty-five feet in height.



19.56.100 - Coverage restrictions.

     In the C-1 zone, no building or structure or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings,
shall cover more than sixty percent of the area of the lot.



Chapter 19.60 - C-V COMMERCIAL ZONE                                                                     Commented [CW22]: Planning Commission originally
                                                                                                        recommended removal of this chapter, but if the Council
                                                                                                        wants to keep it, conversion from County to Metro must be
                                                                                                        done.
19.60.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     The purpose of the C-V zone is to provide for areas in appropriate locations where
commercial centers providing for the needs of tourists and travelers may be established,
maintained and protected, subject to conditional use approval by the planning commission. The
regulations of this zone are designed to encourage the provision of transient housing facilities,
restaurants, service stations, and other commercial activities providing for the convenience,
welfare or entertainment of the traveler.



19.60.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the C-V zone include:
    A.   Accessory uses customarily incidental to a conditional and permitted use;
    B.   Agriculture.



19.60.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the C-V zone include:
         — Antique shop without outside display;
       — Any other establishment for the service of visitors, determined by the planning
    commission to be of the same general character as the above uses;
         — Art gallery;
         — Automobile service station, campground and travel trailer park;


                                                                                            Page 128
        — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting
    rooms;
         — Class A beer outlet;
         — Class B beer outlet;
         — Class C fireworks store;
         — Handicraft shop;
         — Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:
         A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
              landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the county.
         B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure,
              a minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not
              obstructing access to the property.
         C.   Compliance with the sign ordinance.
         D.   The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
         E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
              intersecting streets.
         F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
         — Public or quasi-public use;
         — Recreation, commercial;
         — Restaurant; drive-in refreshment stand;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Shared parking;
         — State-approved liquor and/or beer outlet on state-owned property;
         — Tourist court; motel; motor hotel.



19.60.040 - Board of health approval.

     Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit or site plan approval for all uses, regardless of
size or number of units, the applicant shall receive the written approval of the board of health
certifying that all health requirements have been satisfied and that the proposed construction will
not damage the natural watershed. In addition, developments of more than nine lots or more than
nine units shall receive the written approval of the State Division of Health certifying the culinary
water system and the sewerage system. All approvals shall be in accordance with the regulations
of the State Division of Health relating to culinary water supply and wastewater disposal.



19.60.050 - Building height.




                                                                                            Page 129
    No building or structure in the C-V zone shall exceed three stories or thirty-five feet in height.



19.60.060 - Lot area, coverage and yard requirements.

     The following minimum requirements shall be observed in the C-V zone, except where
increased for conditional uses:

  Lot       Lot
                                                       Yard in Feet
 Area     Coverage

  (Sq.      (Max
                       Front                 Side                                Rear
   Ft.)    Percent)


                               None except when abutting an R 10 feet except when abutting an
10,000        40        20      zone and then not less than 25 R zone then not less than 25
                                            feet                            feet




19.60.070 - Maximum coverage.

    In the C-V zone, the maximum coverage for the aggregate of all buildings, paved surfaces
and graded areas shall be twenty-five percent of the site area.



19.60.080 - Natural hazards.

    In the C-V zone, construction of permanent structures is not permitted in areas subject to
hazards such as floods, landslides and avalanches.



19.60.090 - Grading—Permit required.

    In C-V zones, to eliminate the possibility of erosion and unsightly scars on the mountain
slopes, cut-and-fill shall be controlled by standards adopted by the planning commission, which
are based on slope and grade analysis, for construction of access roads, private rights-of-way,
and building sites. All cut-and-fill surfaces shall be replanted and maintained to negate the
possibility of erosion and scarring. All grading shall also comply with the requirements of the
Uniform Building Code as adopted in Chapter 15.08, Uniform Building Code.




                                                                                             Page 130
19.60.100 - Natural vegetation.

    Natural vegetation shall not be removed in the C-V zone unless the site plan and the plan for
vegetation clearing is approved by the planning commission for conditional uses, or the
development services division director for permitted uses, subject to all the provisions of this
chapter.



19.60.110 - Building materials.

     In the C-V zone, buildings shall be designed to preserve the natural beauty of the canyon
area. Only those building materials which will blend harmoniously into the natural environment
shall be permitted. The use of wood, stone and other harmonious materials is encouraged, and
the use of bland, unpainted concrete blocks and unpainted metal is prohibited on exterior
surfaces.



19.60.120 - Canyon areas—Special provisions applicable.

    Developments in the C-V zone located in canyon areas of the county shall be subject to the
provisions of Sections 19.10.040 through 19.10.170 of this title, and as set out in Sections
19.60.130 through 19.60.180 of this chapter.



19.60.130 - Canyon areas—Lot area, width and slope.

     In C-V zones, the minimum lot area shall be one-half acre. The minimum width of any lot
shall be one hundred feet. Construction is not permitted where the slope exceeds thirty percent.
Roads and other vehicular routes shall not cross property having a slope greater than thirty
percent unless, after review by the planning commission, it is determined that:
    A.    Appropriate engineering measures can be taken to minimize the impact of the cuts and
         fills, consistent with the purpose of this chapter; and
    B.   The environment and aesthetics of the area will not be significantly affected.



19.60.140 - Canyon areas—Yards.

     In the C-V zone, because of the unique nature of the topography and climatic conditions of
the canyon areas, the side, rear and front yard requirements will be determined on an individual
basis by the planning commission for conditional uses, and by the development services division
director for single-family dwellings.



19.60.150 - Canyon areas—Building height.


                                                                                          Page 131
A.    In the C-V zone, the unique nature of the topography, vegetation, soils, climatic and aesthetic
      characteristics of the canyons defy uniform regulations, and require that the heights of
      structures be determined on an individual basis. Maximum and minimum heights of all
      conditional uses shall be determined by the planning commission based on a careful analysis
      of the following:
      1.    Natural setting;
      2.    Relationship to other structures and open spaces;
      3.    Contour intervals and topographic features;
      4.    Height, density and type of vegetation;
      5.    Scenic vistas;
      6.    Other elements deemed appropriate to ensure that the provisions of Section 19.10.010
            are met.
B.     Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Title no single family dwelling shall exceed
      the following height:
      1.     Thirty feet on property where the slope of the original ground surface exceeds fifteen
            percent or the property is located in the hillside protection zone. The slope shall be
            determined using a line drawn from the highest point of elevation to the lowest point of
            elevation on the perimeter of a box which encircles the foundation line of the single-
            family dwelling. Said box shall extend for a distance of fifteen feet or to the property line,
            whichever is less, around the foundation line of the single-family dwelling. The elevation
            shall be determined using a certified topographic survey with a maximum contour interval
            of two feet.
      2.    Thirty-five feet on other properties;
      3.    No single-family dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.



19.60.160 - Canyon areas—Maximum density.

    In the C-V zone, the maximum density for residential dwelling units, except single-family
dwellings, shall be as follows:

     Zone                                           Maximum Density

  FM-10                      10 dwelling units or 20 guestrooms per net developable acre

  FM-20                      20 dwelling units or 40 guestrooms per net developable acre




19.60.170 - Canyon areas—Off-street parking.



                                                                                                Page 132
     In the C-V zone, for conditional uses the planning commission shall determine the number of
parking spaces required. For permitted uses, the planning and development services division
director shall determine the number of parking spaces required. However, the minimum
requirements of Chapter 19.80 shall be provided, except that for hotels and resort hotels, one-
half parking space shall be provided for each guestroom. The planning commission may modify
the requirements of Sections 19.80.060 through 19.80.120.



19.60.180 - Canyon areas—Utilities.

    In the C-V zone, all utilities shall be placed underground.



19.60.200 - Lots of record.

    The planning commission for conditional uses and the development services director for
permitted uses may waive the slope requirements of this chapter for legal lots of record and
subdivisions in the C-V zone which were approved by the planning commission prior to the
enactment of the ordinance from which this section derives if such waiver would not be injurious
to health, safety and the general public welfare of the inhabitants of Salt Lake County and is
consistent with the purpose of this title.



Chapter 19.62 - C-2 COMMERCIAL ZONE



19.62.010 - Purpose of provisions.

   The purpose of the C-2 zone is to provide areas in the countymetro township for community
commercial development.



19.62.020 - Commercial developments over one acre.

    Commercial developments in the C-2 zone over one acre must follow the conditional use
permit procedure pursuant to Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130 of this title.



19.62.030 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the C-2 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Addressograph shop;


                                                                                       Page 133
    — Antique shop without outside display;
     — Archery shop and range, providing the use is conducted within a completely enclosed
building;
    — Art needlework shop;
    — Art shop and/or artist supply;
    — Athletic goods store;
    — Automobile service station;
    — Awning sales and repair;
    — Baby formula service; baby diaper service; babysitter agency;
    — Bakery;
    — Bank;
    — Barbershop;
    — Beauty shop;
    — Bicycle shop;
    — Blueprinting and/or photostating;
    — Bookstore;
    — Bowling alley, including billiard and/or pool tables;
    — Bus terminal;
    — Cafeteria; catering establishment;
    — Candy store; confectionery;
    — Carbonated water sales;
    — Class A beer outlet;
    — Class B beer outlet;
    — Clothes cleaning, dyeing and pressing;
    — Clothing store;
    — Coal and fuel sales office;
    — Costume rental;
    — Dancing;
    — Department store;
    — Delicatessen;
    — Dog training, provided all training is within a completely enclosed building;
    — Dramatics school;
    — Drapery and/or curtain store;
    — Dressmaking;
    — Drive-in refreshment stand;


                                                                                      Page 134
    — Drugstore;
    — Dry goods store;
    — Electrical and heating appliances and fixture sales and repair;
    — Egg candling and sales;
    — Employment agency;
    — Film exchange;
    — Five-and-ten cent store;
    — Fix-it shop;
    — Flooring or floor repair shop;
    — Florist shop;
    — Fountain equipment supply;
    — Frozen food lockers;
    — Fruit or fruit juice store; fruit and/or vegetable stand;
    — Fur sales, storage and/or repair;
    — Furniture sales and/or repair;
    — Gift shop;
    — Greenhouse and nursery; plant materials; soil and lawn service;
    — Grocery;
    — Gunsmith;
    — Gymnasium;
    — Hardware store, not including the sale of lumber;
    — Health food store;
    — Hobby and/or crafts shop;
    — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
    — Hospital supplies;
    — House cleaning and repair; house equipment display;
    — Ice cream shop;
     — Ice vendor units and/or reach-in ice merchandiser units; electrical icemaker units; ice
storage of not more than five tons' capacity;
    — Insulation sales;
    — Interior decorating store;
    — Jewelry store;
    — Janitorial service;
    — Key and lock service;
    — Laundry, automatic self-help type; laundry agency;


                                                                                     Page 135
— Leather goods sales;
— Linen shop;
— Luggage shop;
— Machine tools sales;
— Manicuring, pedicuring and electrolysis of hair;
— Medical and dental clinic and laboratory;
— Milk distributing station and sale of dairy products, excluding processing or bottling;
— Military store;
— Mobile lunch agency;
— Monument sales, retail;
— Motorboat sales;
— Music store;
— Newsstand;
— Notions;
— Novelty shop;
— Numismatic shop; gold, silver and platinum dealer;
— Nurses' agency;
— Office, business or professional; office supply; office machines sales and repair;
— Oil burner shop;
— Optometrist and/or oculist;
— Ornamental iron, sales only;
— Painter and/or paint store;
— Pest extermination and control office;
— Pet shop;
— Photographer and/or sale of photographic supplies;
— Popcorn and/or nut shop;
— Radio and television sales and repair and/or station;
— Residential facility for elderly persons;
— Restaurant;
— Roofing sales;
— Safe sales;
— Secondhand shop;
— Shoe shop; shoeshine shop; shoe repair shop;
— Sewing machine shop;



                                                                                 Page 136
        — Stationery and greeting card sales;
        — Swimming pool;
        — Tailor shop;
        — Taxidermist;
        — Taxi stand;
        — Tire shop, sales only;
        — Theater, indoor;
        — Tobacco shop;
        — Towel and linen supply service;
        — Travel bureau;
        — Upholstery shop;
        — Variety store;
        — Wallpaper store;
        — Weather-stripping shop.



19.62.040 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the C-2 zone include:
         — Agency for the sale of new motor vehicles, trailers and campers, including the
    incidental sale of used motor vehicles, trailers and campers, provided this use is incidental
    and located on the same property as the primary use of new motor vehicle sales; agency for
    the rental of motor vehicles, trailers or campers;
        — Ambulance service;
        — Apartments for elderly persons;
        — Arcade, not to be located within a one thousand foot distance, via the most direct
    pedestrian route, of the property line of any school or private educational institution having
    an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools. For purposes of
    measuring distance, a pedestrian route shall not include a route which requires crossing a
    physical barrier such as a fence, canal or freeway, or include trespassing across private
    property.
        — Athletic club and/or health club;
        — Automobile repair, including incidental body and fender work, painting and
        upholstering and/or welding; automatic automobile wash;
         — Automobile service center, which is limited to tune-ups, lubrication and oil change,
    front-end alignment, brake repair, and muffler repair, providing there is not outside storage of
    parts or materials;
        — Baking, ice cream making and/or candy making;



                                                                                           Page 137
    — Bath and massage (every massage technician shall be licensed by the state);
    — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting
rooms;
    — Cat and dog groomery, excluding overnight boarding;
    — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
    — Check cashing, provided that each check cashing business shall be located a
minimum distance of six hundred feet from any other similarly licensed facility;
    — Class C fireworks store;
    — Copy service;
    — Day care/preschool center;
    — Golf course;
    — Hardware store, including the sale of lumber, providing all storage of lumber is within
a completely enclosed building;
    — Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
    — Home occupation;
    — Hospital;
    — Hotel and apartment hotel;
    — Indoor firearms and/or archery range;
    — Mini-storage units, secondary to the main use of the parcel;
    — Mobile home park;
    — Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
         landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the countymetro township.
    B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure,
         a minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not
         obstructing access to the property.
    C.   Compliance with the sign ordinance.
    D.   The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
    E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
         intersecting streets.
    F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
    — Motel;
    — Multiple dwellings; group dwellings;
    — Neighborhood storage;
     — Open storage for recreational vehicles only (campers, snowmobiles, etc.), but not to
include the storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, including scrap metals or other scrap
material, or for the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or other vehicles
or machinery, or parts thereof, as in an impound lot or junkyard, etc.; and such use will be


                                                                                      Page 138
required to install a six-foot solid visual barrier fence or masonry wall around the entire
storage area (chain-link with slats is acceptable) as a conditional use in the commercial C-2
zone, and as an accessory use only to a main use, such as a service station, carwash or
similar use. Gravel or grass surfacing will be allowed for the storage area;
    — Package agency;
    — Parking lot;
    — Planned unit development;
    — Plumbing shop;
    — Printing shops;
    — Private nonprofit locker club;
    — Private post office box service;
    — Private school;
    — Public and quasi-public use;
    — Rail transit mixed-use, provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.    The planning commission shall determine the density based on the specific
         development proposal, site location and surrounding land uses.
    B.   The property is located within one-quarter mile of a rail station.
    C.   Buildings and impervious areas shall not cover more than eighty percent of the site.
    D.    Commercial uses shall be allowed on the first floor of buildings fronting on a public
         street.
    E.   Office uses shall be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on a
         public street.
    F.   Parking is not allowed between the building and the public street.
    G.    The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet and the side and rear yards shall be
         twenty feet minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two front yards.
    H.    The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation
         of the building must be built within ten feet of the build-to-line or as approved by the
         planning commission.
    I.   The planning commission shall determine the amount of parking required based on
         projected transit usage and other guidelines found in Section 19.80.090, "Planning
         Commission Exceptions."
    J.   All development in the rail transit mixed-use area shall conform to the Rail Transit
         Mixed-Use Development Guidelines adopted by the planning commission. The
         planning commission has the authority to modify or waive guidelines as necessary
         during development review.
    — Reception center and/or wedding chapel;
    — Recreation, commercial;
    — Reiki business provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.


                                                                                          Page 139
    B.   Each practitioner that is not an employee of the business licensee shall have a Salt
         Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township business license.
    C.    Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the promises in a state of nudity or
         semi-nudity, as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this
         Code; and
    D.    The premises shall not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47h-501
         of the Utah Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates
         Title 76 of the Utah Criminal Code.
    — Rent-all store, provided that there is not outside storage;
    — Resource recycling collection point provided it meets the following requirements:
    A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
         landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the countymetro township.
    B.   All material shall be contained within an enclosed container.
    C.   The structures or bins comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
    D.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
    E.   Maintenance of the site in a clean, neat and orderly manner.
    — Restaurant liquor license;
    — Seed and feed store;
    — Shared parking;
    — Sign-painting shop;
    — Single-family dwelling in conjunction with a service station;
    — State store;
    — Swap meets and flea markets within drive-in theaters or enclosed buildings;
    — Tanning studio;
     — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters
for a guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon completion or
abandonment of the construction work;
    — Theaters, outdoor, providing:
    A.   A solid fence or masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet shall be constructed
         on all sides.
    B.    Driveways and parking areas shall be provided with properly maintained dustless
         surfaces.
    C.    Automobile off-street storage areas for automobiles awaiting entrance to the theater
         shall have a capacity of at least fifteen percent of the number of automobile parking
         spaces provided inside the theater.
    D.    Minimum area for a single-screen theater shall be ten acres; minimum area for a
         two-screen theater shall be twelve acres.
    — Transfer company, provided trucks no larger than two tons' capacity are used;



                                                                                       Page 140
         — Unoccupied model buildings for display, accessory to a sales office;
         — Veterinary, providing operation is completely enclosed within an air-conditioned
    building.



19.62.050 - Businesses and uses—Conditions.

     The uses specified above in this chapter for the C-2 zone shall be permitted only under the
following conditions:
    A.   All manufacturing shall be done wholly within a completely enclosed building, and shall
         be incidental to and operated in connection with a use permitted in this chapter;
    B.   All uses shall be free from objections because of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or
         other causes.



19.62.060 - Lot area.

    In the C-2 zone:
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum lot area shall be not less than five
         thousand square feet for the first separate dwelling structure, with three thousand square
         feet for each additional separate dwelling structure, and with seven hundred fifty square
         feet additional for each additional dwelling unit in excess of one dwelling unit in each
         separate dwelling structure;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.



19.62.070 - Lot width.

    In the C-2 zone:
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum width of any lot shall be fifty feet at a
         distance twenty-five feet back from the front lot line;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.



19.62.080 - Front yard.

    In C-2 zones:
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the front yard for dwellings and
         for private garages which have a minimum side yard of eight feet shall be twenty-five
         feet, or the average of the existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage
         is developed, but in no case less than fifteen feet. Other private garages and all



                                                                                          Page 141
         accessory buildings other than private garages shall be located at least six feet in the
         rear of the main building.
    B.   Other Buildings. The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty feet.



19.62.090 - Side yard.

    In the C-2 zone:
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight
         feet, and the total width of the two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen
         feet, except that dwelling structures over thirty-five feet in height shall have one foot of
         additional side yard on each side of the building for each two feet such structure exceeds
         thirty-five feet in height. The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet,
         except private garages and other accessory buildings located at least six feet in the rear
         of the main building shall have a minimum side yard of not less than one foot, provided
         that no private garage or other accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet
         to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street for
         both dwellings and accessory buildings shall be not less than twenty feet, or the average
         of existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in no
         case less than fifteen feet, or be required to be more than twenty feet.
    B.    Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that wherever a building is located upon
         a lot adjacent to a residential land use, there shall be provided a side yard of not less
         than ten feet on the side of the building adjacent to the residential property, and on corner
         lots the side yard which faces on a street shall be not less than twenty feet.



19.62.100 - Rear yard.

    In the C-2 zone:
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the rear yard for any dwelling
         shall be thirty feet, and for accessory buildings one foot, provided that on corner lots
         which rear upon the side yard of another lot, accessory buildings shall be located not
         closer than ten feet to such side yard;
    B.    Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that on corner lots which rear upon the
         side yard of another lot in a residential or agricultural zone, the minimum rear yard shall
         be ten feet.



19.62.110 - Building height.

    No building or structure in the C-2 zone shall contain more than six stories, or exceed
seventy-five feet in height, and no dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.




                                                                                             Page 142
19.62.120 - Coverage restrictions.

   In the C-2 zone, no building or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall cover
more than sixty percent of the area of the lot.



19.62.130 - Density.

     The allowable density for planned unit developments, multiple dwellings and dwelling groups
shall be determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the
following factors: recommendations of countymetro township and non-countymetro township
agencies; site constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses; and the provisions of the
applicable general plan. Notwithstanding the above, the planning commission shall not approve
a planned unit development with density higher than the following:

             Single-family dwellings                             7.0 units per acre

              Two-family dwellings                              12.0 units per acre

             Three-family dwellings                             15.0 units per acre

              Four-family dwellings                             18.0 units per acre

              Multi-family dwellings                            25.0 units per acre*

              Rail transit mixed-use                           No maximum density




* Where supported by the community general plan, and found by the planning commission to
be compatible with land uses in the vicinity, multi-family residential development which
incorporates innovations of design, amenities, and features, may be approved by the planning
commission for higher densities than shown above, but shall in no case be higher than 32.0
units per acre.

Chapter 19.64 - C-3 COMMERCIAL ZONE



19.64.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the C-3 zone is to provide areas in the countymetro township for commercial
uses, warehousing and wholesale business.




                                                                                         Page 143
19.64.020 - Commercial developments over one acre.

    Commercial developments in the C-3 zone over one acre must follow the conditional use
permit procedure pursuant to Sections 19.84.020 through 19.84.130 of this title.



19.64.030 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the C-3 zone include:
        — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
        — Addressograph shop;
        — Air conditioning and ventilating equipment sales and repair;
        — Antique shop without outside display;
         — Archery shop and range, providing the use is conducted within a completely enclosed
    building;
        — Art needlework shop;
        — Art shop and/or artist supply;
        — Athletic goods store;
         — Automobile service center, which is limited to tune-ups, lubrication and oil change,
    front end alignment, brake repair and muffler repair, providing there is no outside storage of
    parts or materials;
        — Automobile service station;
        — Awning sales and repair;
        — Baby formula service; baby diaper service; babysitter agency;
        — Bakery;
        — Bank;
        — Barbershop;
        — Beauty shop;
        — Bicycle shop;
        — Blueprint and/or photostating;
        — Bookstore; bookbinding;
        — Bowling alley;
        — Bus terminal;
        — Cafeteria; catering establishment;
        — Candy store; confectionery;
        — Carbonated water sales;
        — Carpet and/or rug cleaning;



                                                                                         Page 144
    — Class A beer outlet;
    — Class B beer outlet;
    — Clothes cleaning, dyeing;
    — Clothing stores;
    — Coal and fuel sales office;
    — Copy service;
    — Costume rental;
    — Dairy;
    — Dancehall;
    — Department store;
    — Delicatessen;
    — Dog and cat kennel and/or groomery: Boarding is limited to a maximum of twenty-one
days and must be within a completely enclosed air-conditioned sound proofed building with
no outside runs. Noise from the animals shall not be audible at the property line;
    — Dog training, provided all training is within a completely enclosed building;
    — Dramatics school;
    — Drapery and/or curtain store;
    — Dressmaking;
    — Drive-in refreshment stand;
    — Drugstore;
    — Dry goods store;
    — Egg candling and sales;
    — Electrical and heating appliances and fixture sales and repair;
    — Employment agency;
    — Film exchange;
    — Five-and-ten cent store;
    — Fix-it shop;
    — Flooring or floor repair shop;
    — Florist shop;
    — Fountain equipment supply;
    — Frozen food lockers;
    — Fruit or fruit juice store; fruit and/or vegetable stand;
    — Fur sales, storage and/or repair;
    — Furniture sales and/or repair;
    — Gift shop;


                                                                                      Page 145
— Greenhouse and/or nursery; plant materials; soil and lawn service;
— Grocery;
— Gunsmith;
— Gymnasium;
— Hardware store;
— Health food store;
— Hobby and/or crafts shop;
— Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
— Honey extraction;
— Hospital supplies;
— House cleaning and repair; house equipment display;
— Ice cream shop; ice cream manufacture;
— Ice manufacture, storage, and retail and wholesale sales;
— Insulation sales;
— Interior decorating store;
— Janitorial service;
— Jewelry store;
— Key and lock service;
— Laboratory;
— Laundry; laundry, automatic self-help type; laundry agency;
— Leather goods sales;
— Linen shop;
— Luggage sales;
— Machine tool sales;
— Manicuring, pedicuring, and electrolysis of hair;
— Medical and dental clinic;
— Milk distributing station and sale of dairy products;
— Millinery store;
— Mobile lunch agency;
— Monument sales;
— Motorboat sales;
— Music store;
— Newsstand;
— Notions store;



                                                                       Page 146
— Novelty shop;
— Numismatic shop; gold, silver and platinum dealer;
— Office, business or professional; office supply; office machines sales and repair;
— Oil burner shop;
— Optometrist and/or oculist;
— Ornamental iron, sales only;
— Painter and/or paint store;
— Pawnshop;
— Pest extermination and control office;
— Pet shop;
— Photography shop and/or sale of photographic supplies;
— Plumbing shop;
— Popcorn and/or nut shop;
— Printing, lithographing and/or publishing shop;
— Radio and television sales and repair; radio and television station;
— Railway express;
— Residential facility for elderly persons;
— Restaurant;
— Roofing sales;
— Safe sales;
— Sales and storage of pipe;
— Secondhand store;
— Sewing machine shop;
— Shoe shop; shoeshine shop; shoe repair shop;
— Sign-painting shop;
— Stationery and greeting card sales;
— Tailor shop;
— Tanning studio;
— Taxidermist;
— Taxi stand;
— Tire shop;
— Theater, indoor;
— Tobacco shop;
— Towel and linen supply service;



                                                                                Page 147
        — Travel bureau;
        — Upholstery shop;
        — Variety store;
        — Veterinary;
        — Wallpaper store;
        — Warehouse, storage; wholesale business;
        — Weatherstripping shop.



19.64.040 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the C-3 zone include:
        — Agency for the sale or rental of new or used motor vehicles, trailers or campers;
        — Ambulance service;
        — Animal hospital;
        — Apartments for elderly persons;
        — Arcade, not to be located within a one thousand foot distance, via the most direct
    pedestrian route, of the property line of any school or private educational institution having
    an academic curriculum similar to that ordinarily given in public schools. For purposes of
    measuring distance, a pedestrian route shall not include a route which requires crossing a
    physical barrier such as a fence, canal or freeway, or include trespassing across private
    property;
        — Assembly of medical supplies;
        — Athletic club and/or health club;
        — Automobile repair shop, including body and fender work, tire recapping and/or
    vulcanizing; automatic automobile wash;
        — Baking, ice cream making and/or candymaking;
        — Bath and massage (every massage technician shall be licensed by the state);
        — Bed and breakfast inn, which may include a restaurant and conference meeting
    rooms;
        — Bottling works, soft drinks;
        — Boxing arena;
        — Building material sales;
        — Carpenter shop; cabinet shop;
        — Cemetery, mortuary, etc.;
        — Check cashing, provided that each check cashing business shall be located a
    minimum distance of six hundred feet from any other similarly licensed facility;
        — Class C beer outlet;


                                                                                         Page 148
— Class C fireworks store;
— Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the premises;
— Day care/preschool center;
— Electronic instruments assembling;
— Golf course;
— Hatchery;
— Home day care/preschool, subject to Section 19.04.293;
— Home occupation;
— Hospital;
— Hotel and apartment hotel;
— Impound lot, providing:
A.   A solid visual barrier fence or masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet shall
     be constructed on all sides.
B.    No dismantling or demolition of automobiles or other vehicles shall be conducted
     on the premises.
— Indoor firearms and/or archery range;
— Knitting mill;
— Liquor store;
— Lumberyard;
— Machinery installation and servicing;
— Mobile home park;
— Mobile store provided it meets the following requirements:
A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
     landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the countymetro township.
B.   A maximum display area of one hundred square feet outside the portable structure,
     a minimum of ten feet behind the property line, not on landscaped areas, and not
     obstructing access to the property.
C.   Compliance with the sign ordinance.
D.   The structures comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
E.    The mobile store including display area shall not be located within the clear view of
     intersecting streets.
F.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
— Monument works;
— Motel;
— Multiple dwelling; group dwelling;
— Nightclub or social club;



                                                                                  Page 149
— Outdoor chemical toilet rental;
— Package agency;
— Parking lot;
— Planned unit development;
— Private nonprofit locker club;
— Private post office box service;
— Private school;
— Public and quasi-public use;
— Rail transit mixed-use, provided it meets the following requirements:
A.    The planning commission shall determine the density based on the specific
     development proposal, site location and surrounding land uses.
B.   The property is located within one-quarter mile of a rail station.
C.   Buildings and impervious areas shall not cover more than eighty percent of the site.
D.   Commercial uses shall only occupy the first floor of buildings fronting a public street.
E.   Office uses shall be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on a
     public street.
F.   Parking is not allowed between the building and the public street.
G.    The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet and the side and rear yards shall be
     twenty feet minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two front yards.
H.    The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation
     of the building must be built within ten feet of the build-to-line or as approved by the
     planning commission.
I.   The planning commission shall determine the amount of parking required based on
     projected transit usage and other guidelines found in Section 19.80.090, "Planning
     Commission Exceptions."
J.   All development in the rail transit mixed-use area shall conform to the Rail Transit
     Mixed-Use Development Guidelines adopted by the planning commission. The
     planning commission has the authority to modify or waive guidelines as necessary
     during development review.
— Reception center and/or wedding chapel;
— Recreation, commercial;
— Reiki business provided it meets the following requirements:
A.   Hours of operation shall be between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
B.   Each practitioner that is not an employee of the business licensee shall have a Salt
     Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township business license.
C.    Neither clients nor practitioners shall appear on the premises in a state of nudity or
     semi-nudity as defined in the Sexually Oriented Business Chapter of Title 5 of this
     Code; and



                                                                                      Page 150
        D.    The premises shall not be used for any conduct that violates Section 58-47b-501
             of the Utah Massage Therapy Practice Act (2013) or sexual conduct that violates
             Title 76 of the Utah Criminal Code.
        — Rent-all stores;
        — Resource recycling collection point provided it meets the following requirements:
        A.    A location on improved property including a main building with paved parking, and
             landscaping, curb, gutter and sidewalk if required by the countymetro township.
        B.   All material shall be contained within an enclosed container.
        C.   The structures or bins comply with the yard requirements of the zone.
        D.   Written approval from the property owner to locate on the site.
        E.   Maintenance of the site in a clean, neat and orderly manner.
        — Restaurant liquor license;
        — Seed and feed store;
        — Sexually oriented business;
        — Shared parking;
        — State store;
        — Swap meets and flea markets within drive-in theaters or enclosed buildings;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters
    for a guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon completion or
    abandonment of the construction work. If such buildings are not removed within ninety days
    upon completion of construction and thirty days after notice, the buildings will be removed by
    the countymetro township at the expense of the owner;
        — Theaters, outdoor, providing:
        A.   A solid fence or masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet shall be constructed
             on all sides.
        B.    Driveways and parking areas shall be provided with properly maintained dustless
             surfaces.
        C.    Automobile off-street storage areas for automobiles awaiting entrance to the theater
             shall have a capacity of at least fifteen percent of the number of automobile parking
             spaces provided inside the theater.
        D.    Minimum area for a single-screen theater shall be ten acres; minimum area for a
             two-screen theater shall be twelve acres.
        — Transfer company;
        — Used car lot.



19.64.050 - Businesses and uses—Conditions.




                                                                                         Page 151
     The uses specified above in this chapter and the C-3 zone shall be permitted only under the
following conditions:
    A.   All manufacturing shall be done wholly within completely enclosed buildings.
    B.   All uses shall be free from objections because of odor, dust, smoke, noise, vibration, or
         other causes.



19.64.060 - Lot area.

    In the C-3 zone:
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum lot area shall be not less than five
         thousand square feet for the first separate dwelling structure, with three thousand square
         feet for each additional separate dwelling structure, and with seven hundred fifty square
         feet additional for each additional dwelling unit in excess of one dwelling unit in each
         separate dwelling structure;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.



19.64.070 - Lot width.

    In the C-3 zone:
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum width of any lot shall be fifty feet at a
         distance twenty-five feet back from the front lot line;
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.



19.64.080 - Front yard.

    In C-3 zones:
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the front yard for dwellings and
         for private garages which have a minimum side yard of eight feet shall be twenty-five
         feet, or the average of the existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage
         is developed, but in no case less than fifteen feet. Other private garages and all
         accessory buildings other than private garages shall be located at least six feet in the
         rear of the main building.
    B.   Other Buildings and Structures. None.



19.64.090 - Side yard.

    In the C-3 zone:



                                                                                          Page 152
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum side yard for any dwelling shall be eight
         feet, and the total width of the two required side yards shall be not less than eighteen
         feet, except that dwelling structures over thirty-five feet in height shall have one foot of
         additional side yard on each side of the building for each two feet such structure exceeds
         thirty-five feet in height. The minimum side yard for a private garage shall be eight feet,
         except private garages and other accessory buildings located at least six feet in the rear
         of the main building shall have a minimum side yard of not less than one foot, provided
         that no private garage or other accessory building shall be located closer than ten feet
         to a dwelling on an adjacent lot. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a street for
         both dwellings and accessory buildings shall be not less than twenty feet, or the average
         of existing buildings where fifty percent or more of the frontage is developed, but in no
         case less than fifteen feet, or be required to be more than twenty feet.
    B.    Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that wherever a building is located upon
         a lot adjacent to a residential zone or agricultural zone boundary, there shall be provided
         a side yard of not less than ten feet on the side of the building adjacent to the zone
         boundary line, and on corner lots the side yard which faces on a street shall be not less
         than twenty feet.



19.64.100 - Rear yard.

    In the C-3 zone:
    A.    Multiple and/or Group Dwellings. The minimum depth of the rear yard for any dwelling
         shall be thirty feet, and for accessory buildings one foot, provided that on corner lots
         which rear upon the side yard of another lot, accessory buildings shall be located not
         closer than ten feet to such side yard;
    B.    Other Buildings and Structures. None, except that on corner lots which rear upon the
         side yard of another lot in a residential or agricultural zone, the minimum rear yard shall
         be ten feet.



19.64.110 - Building height.

    No building or structure in the C-3 zone shall contain more than six stories, or exceed
seventy-five feet in height, and no dwelling structure shall contain less than one story.



19.64.120 - Coverage restrictions.

   In the C-3 zone, no building or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings, shall cover
more than sixty percent of the area of the lot.



19.64.130 - Density.



                                                                                            Page 153
     The allowable density for planned unit developments, multiple dwellings and dwelling groups
shall be determined by the planning commission on a case by case basis, taking into account the
following factors: recommendations of countymetro township and non-countymetro township
agencies; site constraints; compatibility with nearby land uses; and the provisions of the
applicable general plan. Notwithstanding the above, the planning commission shall not approve
a planned unit development with density higher than the following:

             Single-family dwellings                            7.0 units per acre

              Two-family dwellings                             12.0 units per acre

             Three-family dwellings                            15.0 units per acre

              Four-family dwellings                            18.0 units per acre

              Multi-family dwellings                           25.0 units per acre*

              Rail transit mixed-use                          No maximum density




* Where supported by the community general plan, and found by the planning commission to
be compatible with land uses in the vicinity, multi-family residential development which
incorporates innovations of design, amenities and features, may be approved by the planning
commission for higher densities than shown above, but shall in no case be higher than 32.0
units per acre.

Chapter 19.66 - M-1 MANUFACTURING ZONE



19.66.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the M-1 zone is to provide areas in the countymetro township for light
industrial uses.



19.66.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the M-1 zone include:
        — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
        — Agriculture;
        — Animals and fowl for family food production;
        — Animal hospitals;


                                                                                       Page 154
    — Assembly of medical supplies;
    — Boatbuilding;
    — Bottling works, soft drinks;
    — Bookbinding;
    — Carpenter shop; cabinet shop;
    — Carpet and rug cleaning and dyeing;
    — Class B beer outlet;
    — Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the premises;
    — Dairy;
    — Dog and cat kennel and/or groomery;
    — Egg candling, processing and sales;
    — Electric appliance and/or electronic instruments;
    — Express office;
    — Garage, public;
    — Honey extraction;
    — Ice manufacture and storage;
    — Knitting mill;
    — Laboratory;
    — Laundry;
    — Machine shop;
    — Manufacture and maintenance of the following:
    A.   Business machines,
    B.   Cameras and photographic equipment,
    C.   Electric and neon signs, billboards and/or commercial advertising structures,
    D.    Light sheet metal products, including heating and ventilating ducts and equipment,
         cornices and eaves, Venetian blinds, window shades and awnings,
    E.   Musical instruments,
    F.   Novelties,
    G.   Rubber and metal stamps,
    H.   Toys;
    — Meat products smoking, curing and packing, provided that no objectionable fumes are
emitted;
    — Monument works;
    — Motor vehicles, trailers, bicycles and machinery assembling, painting, upholstering,
rebuilding, repairing, rentals, sales and reconditioning;



                                                                                   Page 155
        — Office, business and/or professional;
        — Outdoor chemical toilet rental;
        — Parking lot;
        — Printing, including engraving and photoengraving;
        — Radio and television transmitting towers;
        — Restaurant liquor license;
        — Recycling collection center operated within an enclosed building;
        — Rent-all stores;
        — Restaurant;
        — Sandblasting;
        — Service station;
        — Sign-painting shop;
        — Tire retreading and/or vulcanizing;
        — Transfer company;
        — Upholstering, including mattress manufacturing, rebuilding and renovating;
        — Used car lot;
        — Veterinary;
        — Warehouse;
        — Weaving;
        — Wholesale business.



19.66.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the M-1 zone include:
        — Airport;
        — Auction;
        — Automatic automobile wash;
        — Bank;
        — Battery manufacture;
        — Blacksmith shop;
        — Building material sales yard, including the sale of rock, sand, gravel and the like, as
    an incidental part of the main business, but excluding concrete mixing, except as such
    concrete mixing is necessary in the preparation and manufacture of any of the products
    specified in this section;
        — Class C fireworks store;



                                                                                        Page 156
    — Coal, fuel and wood yards;
    — Contractors' equipment storage yard or rental of equipment used by contractors;
    — Day care/preschool center;
    — Drag strip racing;
    — Draying, freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
    — Electrical contractor;
    — Foundry, casting lightweight nonferrous metal without causing noxious odors or
fumes;
    — Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacture, processing and/or sales, providing only
nonanimal products and byproducts are used;
    — Firearms and/or archery range;
    — Gymnasium;
    — Impound lot, providing there is no dismantling or demolition of automobiles or other
vehicles conducted on the premises;
    — Indoor firearms and/or archery range;
    — Manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging and treatment of the following
products:
    A.   Bakery goods,
    B.   Candy,
    C.    Cosmetics,
    D.    Dairy products,
    E.   Pharmaceuticals,
    F.   Toiletries,
    G.    Food products, excluding the following: Fish, sauerkraut, vinegar, yeast, and the
         rendering of fat,
    H.    Pickles;
     — Manufacturing, compounding, assembling and treatment of articles of merchandise
from the following previously prepared materials: Bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork,
feathers, felt, fiber, fish, glass, hair, horn, leather, paper, paint, plastics, precious or
semiprecious metals or stones, rubber, shell, straw, textiles, tobacco, wood or yarn;
     — Manufacture of brick, and all clay, ceramic, cinder, concrete, synthetic, cast-stone,
plastic and pumice stone products, including, in addition, the manufacture or fabrication of
building blocks, tile or pipe from raw material for use in building construction or for sewer or
drainage purposes, and excluding rock or gravel crushing of raw materials, except as such
rock or gravel crushing of raw materials is incidental to the manufacture or fabrication of the
above-described products, and provided that such crushing facilities shall be located not
closer than two hundred feet to any property line;
    — Metal plating; metal anodizing; metal polishing;
    — Motion picture studio;


                                                                                       Page 157
         — Package agency;
         — Planing mill;
         — Planned unit development;
         — Private school;
         — Public and quasi-public use;
         — Radio and television stations;
         — Recreation, commercial;
         — Restaurant liquor license;
         — Sanitary landfill;
         — Sexually oriented business;
         — Shared parking;
         — Single-family dwelling constructed prior to the passage of the ordinance codified in
    this section, to be retained on a separate lot;
         — State store;
         — Temporary buildings for uses incidental to construction work, including living quarters
    for a guard or night watchman, which buildings must be removed upon the completion or
    abandonment of the construction work;
         — Welding shop.



19.66.040 - Lot area.

    In the M-1 zone:
    A.    A single-family dwelling on the same lot with another use(s) allowed in the zone shall
         occupy a minimum area of five thousand square feet, separated from the other use(s)
         with a permanent fence;
    B.   Single-family dwellings retained on a separate lot from other use(s) shall be a minimum
         of twenty thousand square feet, exclusive of access rights-of-way;
    C.   Other uses: None;
    D.    Industrial developments over one acre must follow the conditional use permit procedure
         pursuant to Section 19.84.020 of this title.



19.66.050 - Lot width and yards.

    In the M-1 zone:
    A.   Single-family Dwelling on the Same Lot With Other Uses.
         1.    The required fence shall constitute the property line for the purpose of yard
              requirements where an actual property line does not exist.


                                                                                         Page 158
         2.    The minimum side yard shall be five feet, and the total of the two required side
              yards' width shall not be less than sixteen feet. On corner lots, the side yard which
              faces on a street shall not be less than twenty feet.
         3.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall not be less than fifteen feet.
         4.   The width of the yard at any point shall be equal to, or greater than the maximum
              width of the dwelling, plus the required side yards.
    B.   Single-family Dwellings Retained on a Separate Lot.
         1.    The minimum side yard shall be five feet, and the total width of the two required
              side yards shall be not less than sixteen feet. On corner lots, the side yard which
              faces on a street shall not be less than twenty feet.
         2.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall be fifteen feet.
         3.   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty feet.
         4.   The minimum width of the lot shall be sixty feet.
         5.   Access shall be from a private right-of-way or public street with a minimum width of
              thirty feet.
    C.    Other Uses. None, except that no commercial or industrial building or structure shall be
         located closer than twenty feet to any street.



19.66.060 - Coverage restrictions.

     In the M-1 zone, no building, structure or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings,
shall cover more than eighty percent of the area of the lot.



Chapter 19.68 - M-2 MANUFACTURING ZONE



19.68.010 - Purpose of provisions.

    The purpose of the M-2 zone is to provide areas in the countymetro township for heavy
industrial uses.



19.68.020 - Permitted uses.

    Permitted uses in the M-2 zone include:
         — Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to permitted uses;
         — Agriculture;
         — Animal hospital;



                                                                                          Page 159
    — Assembly of medical supplies;
    — Bag cleaning;
    — Blacksmith shop;
    — Blueprinting, photostating and duplicating;
    — Boatbuilding;
    — Boiler works;
    — Bookbinding;
    — Bottling works;
    — Breweries;
    — Carpenter shop; cabinet shop;
    — Carpet and rug cleaning and dyeing;
    — Cement, mortar, plaster or paving materials central mixing plant;
    — Class B beer outlet;
    — Coke ovens;
    — Construction of buildings to be sold and moved off the premises;
    — Dairy;
    — Drive-it-yourself agency;
    — Dog and cat kennel and/or groomery;
    — Egg candling, processing and sales;
    — Electric appliance and/or electronic instruments assembling;
    — Employment office;
    — Express office;
    — Feed, cereal or flour mill;
    — Forage plant;
    — Foundry;
    — Gymnasium;
    — Honey extraction;
    — Ice manufacture and storage;
    — Impound lot, provided there is no dismantling or demolition of automobiles or other
vehicles conducted on the premises;
    — Knitting mill;
    — Laboratories;
    — Laundry;
    — Lithographing, including engraving and photoengraving;
    — Machine shop;


                                                                                Page 160
     — Manufacture, fabrication, assembly, canning, compounding, packaging, processing,
treatment, storage and/or maintenance of the following:
    A.    Airplanes and parts; automobiles and parts; alcohol,
    B.    Bakery goods; brass; business machines,
    C.    Candles; candy, cans, cameras and photographic equipment, including film; cast-
         stone products; celluloid; cement and cinder products; copper; ceramic products;
         clay products,
    D.    Dyestuffs,
    E.   Electric and neon signs, billboards and/or commercial advertising structures; emery
         cloth; excelsior,
    F.   Feathers; felt; fiber; fish; food products,
    G.    Glass; glucose; gypsum,
    H.    Hair; hardware,
    I.   Ink; iron,
    J.   Lampblack; linoleum; lime,
    K.    Machinery; malt; matches; meats; musical instruments,
    L.   Novelties,
    M.    Oilcloth; oiled rubber goods; oxygen,
    N.    Paper; paint; pulp; pickles; pottery; plaster; plaster of Paris; plastic,
    O.    Salt; sauerkraut; sheet metal; shellac; shoddy; shoe polish; soap and detergents;
         soda; starch; steel,
    P.    Terra cotta; tile; toys; turpentine,
    Q.    Varnish; vinegar,
    R.    Yeast;
    — Meat products smoking, curing and packing, providing that no objectionable fumes
are emitted;
    — Metal plating; metal anodizing; metal polishing;
    — Monument works;
    — Motor vehicles, trailers, bicycles and machinery assembling, painting, upholstering,
rebuilding, repairing, rentals, sales, and reconditioning;
    — Office, business and/or professional;
    — Outdoor chemical toilet rentals;
    — Parking lot;
    — Printing and newspaper publishing;
    — Radio and television transmitting towers;
    — Recycling collection center operated within an enclosed building;
    — Rent-all store;


                                                                                      Page 161
        — Restaurant;
        — Sandblasting;
        — Service station;
        — Sign-painting shop;
        — Tire retreading and/or vulcanizing;
        — Transfer company;
        — Upholstering, including mattress manufacturing, rebuilding and renovating;
        — Used car lot;
        — Veterinary;
        — Warehouse;
        — Weaving;
        — Wholesale business.



19.68.030 - Conditional uses.

    Conditional uses in the M-2 zone include:
        — Airport;
        — Auction;
        — Automatic automobile wash;
        — Bank;
        — Battery manufacture;
         — Building material sales yard, including the sale of rock, sand, gravel and the like as
    an incidental part of the main business;
        — Class C beer outlet;
        — Coal, fuel and wood yards;
        — Contractors' equipment storage yard or plant, or rental of equipment used by
    contractors;
        — Day care/preschool center;
        — Drag strip racing;
        — Draying, freighting or trucking yard or terminal;
        — Electrical contractor;
        — Fertilizer and soil conditioner manufacturing, processing and/or sales, providing only
    nonanimal products and byproducts are used;
        — Incinerator, nonaccessory, provided that no objectionable fumes and odors are
    emitted;



                                                                                        Page 162
    — Junkyard, provided the use is fenced with a visual barrier;
    — Lumberyard;
     — Manufacture, processing, compounding, packaging, treatment and/or storage of the
following products:
    A.   Acetylene gas,
    B.   Pharmaceuticals,
    C.   Toiletries and/or cosmetics;
     — Manufacturing, compounding, assembling and treatment of articles of merchandise
from the following previously prepared materials: Bone, canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork,
feathers, felt, fiber, fish, glass, hair, horn, leather, paper, paint, plastics, precious or
semiprecious metals or stones, rubber, shell, straw, textiles, tobacco, wood or yarn;
    — Metals crushing for salvage; metals and metal products treatment and processing;
    — Oil or lubricating grease compounding;
    — Organic disposal site, minimum lot area fifty acres;
    — Package agency;
    — Petroleum refining and storage;
    — Planing mill;
    — Planned unit development;
    — Private school;
    — Public and quasi-public use;
    — Radio and television stations;
    — Railroad yards, shop and/or roundhouse;
    — Rock crusher;
    — Sanitary landfill;
    — Shared parking;
     — Single-family dwelling constructed prior to the passage of the ordinance codified in
this section, to be retained on the same lot with another use allowed in the zone;
     — Single-family dwelling constructed prior to the passage of the ordinance codified in
this section, to be retained on a separate lot;
    — Uses which follow, provided they are located at least three hundred feet from any
zone boundary:
    A.   Animal byproducts plants; offal or dead animal reduction or dumping,
    B.   Blast furnace,
    C.   Fat rendering,
    D.   Garbage,
    E.   Gravel pits; quarries; mines,



                                                                                   Page 163
         F.   Manufacturing, processing, refining, treatment, distillation, storage or compounding
              of the following: Acid, ammonia, asphalt, bleaching powder and chlorine, bones,
              chemicals of an objectionable or dangerous nature, coal or wood, creosote,
              disinfectants or insecticides, fireworks or explosives, furs, gas, gelatine or size, glue,
              hides, ore, plastic, tallow, grease or lard, potash, pyroxylin, roofing or waterproofing
              materials, rubber or guttapercha, tar and wool,
         G.    Ore beneficiation,
         H.    Smelting or refining,
         I.   Steel or iron mill,
         J.   Stockyards.



19.68.040 - Lot area.

    In the M-2 zone:
    A.    A single-family dwelling on the same lot with another use(s) allowed in the zone shall
         occupy a minimum area of five thousand square feet, separated from the other use(s)
         with a permanent fence.
    B.    Single-family dwelling retained on a separate lot from other use(s) shall be a minimum
         of twenty thousand square feet, exclusive of access rights-of-way;
    C.    Other uses: None;
    D.    Industrial developments over one acre shall follow the conditional use permit procedure
         pursuant to Section 19.84.020 of this title.



19.68.050 - Lot width and yards.

    In the M-2 zone:
    A.   Single-family Dwelling on the Same Lot With Other Uses.
         1.    The required fence shall constitute the property line for the purpose of yard
              requirements where an actual property line does not exist.
         2.   The minimum side yard shall be five feet and the total width of the two required side
              yards shall be less than sixteen feet. On corner lots, the side yard which faces on a
              street shall not be less than twenty feet.
         3.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall not be less than fifteen feet.
         4.   The width of the yard at any point shall be equal to or greater than the maximum
              width of the dwelling plus the required side yards.
    B.   Single-family Dwelling Retained on a Separate Lot.
         1.    The minimum side yard shall be five feet, and the total width of the two required
              side yards shall not be less than sixteen feet. On the corner lots, the side yard which
              faces on a street shall not be less than twenty feet.


                                                                                              Page 164
         2.   The minimum depth of the rear yard shall be fifteen feet.
         3.   The minimum depth of the front yard shall be twenty feet.
         4.   The minimum width of the lot shall be sixty feet.
         5.   Access shall be from a private right-of-way or public street with a minimum width of
              thirty feet.
    C.    Other Uses. None, except no commercial or industrial building or structure shall be
         located closer than twenty feet to any street.



19.68.060 - Coverage restrictions.

     In the M-2 zone, no building, structure or group of buildings, with their accessory buildings,
shall cover more than eighty percent of the area of a lot.                                               Commented [CW23]: Will need to insert PC zone after
                                                                                                         this section if given the go-ahead by the Council.



Chapter 19.70 - AOZ AIRPORT OVERLAY ZONE



19.70.010 - Purpose of provisions.

     It is determined that an airport hazard endangers the lives and property of users of airports,
and the health, safety and welfare of property or occupants of land in its vicinity and, also, if of
the obstruction type or of the incompatible use type in effect reduces the size of the area available
for landing, takeoff and maneuvering of aircraft, thus tending to destroy or impair the utility of
airports and the public investment therein. Accordingly, it is declared that:
    A.    The creation or establishment of an airport hazard is a public nuisance and an injury to
         the region served by airports;
    B.    It is necessary in the interest of public health, public safety and general welfare that the
         creation and establishment of airport hazards be prevented; and
    C.   The prevention of these hazards should be accomplished, to the extent legally possible,
         by the exercise of the police power without compensation.



19.70.020 - Definitions.

   In this chapter, the following terms, phrases, words, and their derivations, shall have the
meanings as defined in this section:
    "Air circulation system" means any method of cooling and heating an area with windows and
doors closed, or with evaporative coolers and similar devices.
    "Airport" means any landing area, runway, or other facility designed, used or intended to be
used either publicly or by any person or persons for the landing or taking off of aircraft, including



                                                                                             Page 165
all necessary taxiways, aircraft storage and tiedown areas, hangars, and other necessary
buildings and open spaces, as permitted by local zoning ordinances.
     "Airport elevation" means the highest point of the airport's usable landing area, measured in
feet from mean sea level.
     "Airport hazard" means any structure or object of natural growth located on or in the vicinity
of the airport, or any use of land near the airport, which obstructs the airspace required for the
flight of aircraft in landing or takeoff of an aircraft.
     "Airport reference point" means the point established as the approximate geographic center
of the airport landing area, and so designated.
    "FAA" means the Federal Aviation Administration.
    "Height." For the purpose of determining the height limits in all zones set forth in this chapter
and shown on the zoning map, the datum shall be mean sea level elevation unless otherwise
specified.
     "Incompatible use" means any structure or use of land which, because it exposes residents
or occupants in the vicinity of airports to aircraft noise, constitutes an airport hazard.
    "Nonconforming use" means any preexisting structure, tree or use of land which is
inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter or an amendment thereto.
     "Nonprecision instrument runway" means a runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing air navigation facilities, with only horizontal guidance or area-type navigation
equipment for which straight-in nonprecision instrument approach procedure has been approved
or planned, and for which no precision approach facilities are planned or indicated on an FAA
planning document.
    "Person" means an individual, firm, partnership, corporation, company, association, joint
stock association or governmental entity. It includes a trustee, receiver, assignee or similar
representative of any of the foregoing.
     "Precision instrument runway" means a runway having an existing instrument approach
procedure utilizing an instrument landing system ("ILS") or a precision approach radar ("PAR"). It
shall also mean a runway for which a precision approach system is planned and is so indicated
on an FAA approved airport layout plan or any other FAA approved planning document.
    "Primary surface" means a surface longitudinally centered on a runway. When the runway
has a specially prepared hard surface, the primary surface extends two hundred feet beyond each
end of such runway; but when the runway has no specially prepared hard surface, or planned
hard surface, the primary surface of a runway will be that width prescribed in Part 77, Section
77.24 of the Federal Aviation Regulations ("FAR"), which is hereby incorporated by reference and
made a part hereof, for the most precise approach existing or planned for either end of that
runway. The elevation of any point on the primary surface is the same as the elevation of the
nearest point on the runway centerline.
    "Runway" means a defined area on the airport prepared for landing and takeoff of aircraft
along its length.
     "Structure" means an object constructed or installed by man, including, but without limitation,
buildings, towers, smokestacks, earth foundations and overhead transmission lines.
    "Tree" means any object of natural growth.




                                                                                            Page 166
     "Utility runway" means a runway that is constructed for and intended to be used by propeller-
driven aircraft of twelve thousand five hundred pounds maximum gross weight or less.
    "Visual runway" means a runway intended solely for the operation of aircraft using visual
approach procedures with no straight-in instrument approach procedure and no instrument
designation indicated on an FAA approved airport layout plan or on any planning document
submitted to the FAA by competent authority.



19.70.030 - Airport layout plan provisions.

     Airport types and airport height provisions for an airport shall be determined by and based
on an airport layout plan and airport zoning map approved by the county council and on file with
the planning commission. Any such maps so approved and recorded as of August 22, 1984, the
time of the passage of the ordinance codified in this chapter, shall be deemed to be as much a
part of this chapter by this reference as if fully prescribed and detailed herein.



19.70.040 - Airport overlay zones—Established—Applicability.

     In order to carry out the provisions of this chapter, there are created and established certain
overlay zones which may include all of the land lying within the approach zones, transitional
zones, horizontal zones, conical zones, and airport restriction zones. Such zones shall be
effective only to the extent shown on the zoning maps on file in the office of the planning
commission as the same appear as of the effective date of the amending ordinance codified in
this chapter, and as amended from time to time hereafter to reflect the changes made thereon by
ordinances adopted by the county council, and such map and all references, notations and other
information shown thereon are hereby made a part of this chapter to the extent as if the map and
the information thereon were fully described and set forth herein.



19.70.050 - Airport overlay zones—Height limitations.

     Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no structure or tree shall be erected, altered,
allowed to grow or be maintained in any zone created by this chapter to a height in excess of the
applicable height limit established in this chapter for such zone.



19.70.060 - Utility runway visual approach zone—Established.

     Utility runway visual approach zones are established with the inner edge coinciding with the
width of the primary surface, and being two hundred fifty feet wide. The approach zone expands
outward, uniformly, to a width of twelve hundred fifty feet at a horizontal distance of five thousand
feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of the runway.




                                                                                            Page 167
19.70.070 - Utility runway visual approach zone—Height limitations.

     The height limitation in a utility runway visual approach zone slopes upward twenty feet
horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface, and extends to a horizontal distance of five thousand feet along the extended
runway centerline.



19.70.080 - Runway larger than utility with certain conditions—Zone established.

     Runways larger than utility with a visible minimum as low as three-fourths' mile nonprecision
instrument approach zones are hereby established, with the inner edge of this approach zone
coinciding with the width of the primary zone, and are one thousand feet wide. The approach zone
expands outward, uniformly, to a width of sixteen thousand feet at a horizontal distance of fifty
thousand feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the continuation of the centerline of
the runway.



19.70.090 - Runway larger than utility with certain conditions—Height limitations.

     The height limitation in a runway larger than utility with a visual minimum as low as three-
fourths' mile nonprecision instrument zone slopes upward one hundred feet horizontally for each
foot vertically, beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the primary surface, and
extends to a horizontal distance of ten thousand feet along the extended runway centerline;
thence slopes upward forty feet horizontally for each foot vertically to an additional horizontal
distance of forty thousand feet along the extended runway centerline.



19.70.100 - Precision instrument runway approach zone—Established.

     Precision instrument runway approach zones are hereby established, with the inner edge of
this approach zone coinciding with the width of the primary surface, and are one thousand feet
wide. The approach zone expands outward, uniformly, to a width of sixteen thousand feet at a
horizontal distance of fifty thousand feet from the primary surface, its centerline being the
continuation of the centerline of the runway.



19.70.110 - Precision instrument runway approach zone—Height limitations.

     The height limitation in a precision runway approach zone slopes upward one hundred feet
horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the end of and at the same elevation as the
primary surface, and extends to a horizontal distance of ten thousand feet along the extended
runway centerline; thence slopes upward forty feet horizontally for each foot vertically to an
additional distance of forty thousand feet along the extended runway centerline.




                                                                                         Page 168
19.70.120 - Transitional zones—Established.

     Transitional zones are hereby established as the area beneath the transitional surfaces. The
surfaces extend outward and upward to ninety-degree angles to the runway centerline and the
runway centerline extended, at a slope of seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically from the
sides of the primary and approach surfaces to where they intersect the horizontal and conical
surfaces. Transitional zones for those portions of the precision approach zones which project
through and beyond the limits of the conical surface extend a distance of five thousand feet,
measured horizontally from the edge of the approach zones and at a ninety-degree angle to the
extended runway centerline.



19.70.130 - Transitional zones—Height limitations.

A.    The height limitation in a transitional zone slopes upward and outward seven feet horizontally
     for each foot vertically, beginning at the side of and at the same elevation as the primary
     surface and the approach zones, and extending to a height of one hundred fifty feet above
     the airport elevation.
B.    In addition to the foregoing, there are established height limits sloping upward and outward
     seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the sides of and at the same
     elevation of the approach zones, and extending to where they intersect the conical surface.
C.    Where the precision instrument runway approach zone projects beyond the conical zone,
     height limits sloping upward and outward seven feet horizontally for each foot vertically shall
     be maintained beginning at the sides of and at the same elevation as the precision instrument
     runway approach surface, and extending to a horizontal distance of five thousand feet,
     measured at a ninety-degree angle to the extended runway centerline.



19.70.140 - Horizontal zone—Established.

A.    Horizontal zones are hereby established as that area the perimeter of which is constructed
     by swinging arcs of specified radii from a point on the centerline and two hundred feet beyond
     each end of each runway, and connecting the adjacent arcs by lines tangent to those arcs.
B.    The radius of each arc is five thousand feet for all runways designated as utility or visual,
     and ten thousand feet for all other runways. The radius of the arc specified for each end of a
     runway will have the same arithmetical value. That value will be the highest determined for
     either end of the runway. When a five-thousand-foot arc is encompassed by tangents
     connecting two adjacent ten-thousand-foot arcs, the five-thousand-foot arc shall be
     disregarded in determining the horizontal zone.
C.   The horizontal zone does not include the approach and transitional zones.



19.70.150 - Horizontal zone—Height limitations.




                                                                                           Page 169
    The height limitation in a horizontal zone shall be one hundred fifty feet above the airport
elevation.



19.70.160 - Conical zone—Established.

     Conical zones are hereby established as the area that commences at the periphery of the
horizontal zone and extends outward therefrom a horizontal distance of four thousand feet. The
conical zone does not include the precision instrument approach zones and the transitional zones.



19.70.170 - Conical zone—Height limitations.

     The height limitation of the conical zone shall slope upward and outward twenty feet
horizontally for each foot vertically, beginning at the periphery of the horizontal zone and at one
hundred fifty feet above the airport elevation, and extending to a height of three hundred fifty feet
above the airport elevation.



19.70.180 - Height limitations—Applicability.

    Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the growth, construction or
maintenance of any tree or structure to a height consistent with the terms of this chapter.



19.70.190 - Airport restriction zones—Established.

    Airport restriction zones are established as follows:
    A.   Airport Restriction Zone A is that area shown on the airport zoning map exposed to the
         most severe levels of aircraft noise.
    B.    Airport Restriction Zone B is that area shown on the airport zoning map exposed to
         severe levels of aircraft noise.
    C.    Airport Restriction Zone C is that area shown on the airport zoning map exposed to
         moderate levels of aircraft noise.
    D.    Airport Restriction Zone D is that area shown on the airport zoning map exposed to
         noise from aircraft operating on a primary flight track.
    E.    Airport Restriction Zone E is that area shown on the airport zoning map exposed to
         noise from aircraft operating on a heavily used aircraft traffic pattern.



19.70.200 - Airport restriction zones—Incompatible uses.




                                                                                            Page 170
A.    Except as provided for in this chapter, no structure or use of land shall be erected, altered
     or utilized in any airport restriction zone so as to create an incompatible use, as hereinafter
     established for such zones. In addition, any development within Airport Restriction Zones A,
     B, C, D or E requires an aviation easement.
B.    For this purpose, "development" means and is defined as subdivision of property and as
     construction of buildings on vacant property, except on improved subdivided property
     recorded as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
C.   Airport Restriction Zone A. The following uses are incompatible in this zone:
     1.   Residential uses;
     2.    Commercial uses, except those constructed with air circulation systems and at least
          twenty-five db of sound attenuation;
     3.   Institutional uses, such as schools, hospitals, churches and rest homes;
     4.    Hotels and motels, except those constructed with air circulation systems and at least
          thirty db of sound attenuation in sleeping areas, and at least twenty-five db of sound
          attenuation elsewhere.
D.   Airport Restriction Zone B. The following uses are incompatible in this zone:
     1.   Residential uses, except residences in agricultural zones with air circulation systems,
          and at least twenty-five db of sound attenuation;
     2.   Institutional uses such as schools, hospitals, churches and rest homes, except those
          constructed with air circulation systems and at least twenty-five db of sound attenuation;
     3.    Hotels and motels, except those constructed with air circulation systems and at least
          twenty-five db of sound attenuation in sleeping areas.
E.   Airport Restriction Zone C. The following uses are incompatible in this zone:
     1.   Residential uses, except those constructed with air circulation systems;
     2.   Mobile homes, except those constructed with air circulation systems and at least twenty
          db of sound attenuation;
     3.   Institutional uses such as schools, hospitals, churches and rest homes, except those
          constructed with air circulation systems.
F.   Airport Restriction Zone D. The following uses are incompatible in this zone:
     1.   Low-density residential and school uses except those constructed with air circulation
          systems.
G.   Airport Restriction Zone E. The following uses are incompatible in this zone:
     1.   No restrictions, except aviation easements are required.



19.70.210 - Permits—Required when.

     All uses shall obtain permits before construction or installation, as required by other county
ordinances.




                                                                                           Page 171
19.70.220 - Permits—Issuance conditions.

    No permit shall be granted that would allow the establishment or creation of an airport hazard,
or permit a nonconforming use or structure to be made or become higher or become a greater
hazard to air navigation than it was on the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter,
or any amendment thereto, or than it is when the application for a permit is made.



19.70.230 - Use restrictions.

     Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no use may be made of land or water
within the county that will create any electrical interference with navigational signals for radio
communication between the airport and the aircraft, making it difficult for pilots to distinguish
airport lights and others, resulting in glare in the eyes of the pilots using the airport, impair visibility
in the vicinity of the airport, or otherwise in any way create a hazard or endanger the landing,
takeoff or maneuvering of aircraft intending to use the airport.



19.70.240 - Hazard marking and lighting.

     Any permit or variance granted may, if such action is deemed advisable to effectuate the
purpose of this chapter and be reasonable in the circumstances, be so conditioned as to require
the owner of the structure or tree in question to permit the property owner at his own expense to
install, operate and maintain thereon such markers and lights as may be necessary to indicate to
flyers the presence of an airport hazard.



19.70.250 - Nonconforming uses—Provisions not retroactive.

     The regulations prescribed in this chapter shall not be construed to require the removal,
lowering, or other changes or alterations in any structure or tree not conforming to the regulations
as of the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter, or otherwise interfere with the
continuance of a nonconforming use. Nothing contained herein shall require any change in the
construction, alteration or intended use of any structure, the construction or alteration of which
was begun prior to the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter and which is
diligently prosecuted.



19.70.260 - Nonconforming uses—Marking and lighting.

     Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 19.70.250, the owner of any existing
nonconforming structure or tree is required to permit the installation, operation and maintenance
thereon of such markers and lights as shall be deemed necessary, by the airport manager, to
indicate to the operators of aircraft in the vicinity of the airport hazards.




                                                                                                  Page 172
19.70.270 - Nonconforming uses—Permit issuance restrictions.

     Whenever the county development services director determines that a nonconforming
structure has been abandoned for a period of twelve consecutive months, or physically
deteriorated as defined in Section 203 of the Uniform Building Code, no permit shall be granted
that would allow such structure to exceed the applicable height limit or otherwise deviate from the
zoning regulations.



19.70.280 - Conflicting provisions—Resolution.

     Where there exists a conflict between any of the regulations or limitations prescribed in this
chapter and any other regulations applicable to the same area, including land use zoning, whether
the conflict is with respect to height of structure or trees, the use of land, or any other matter, the
more stringent limitation or requirements shall govern and prevail. Also, where an area is covered
by more than one height limitation described in this chapter, the more-restrictive limitation shall
prevail.



Chapter 19.71 - RESIDENTIAL COMPATIBILITY OVERLAY ZONE                                                    Commented [CW24]: Planning Commission has held a
                                                                                                          hearing and made formal recommendation changing this to
                                                                                                          residential compatibility design standards. Discussed again
                                                                                                          4/9/19, and expressed that they prefer the Metro Council
19.71.010 - Purpose of provisions.                                                                        be the appeal authority.


A.    The general purpose of the residential compatibility overlay zone ("RCOZ") is to promote
     public welfare and to balance neighborhood compatibility with the private property interests
     of those who wish to expand, develop, improve or otherwise make exterior modification to
     their residential property.
B.   Recognizing the wide variation of circumstances incident to a residential application and the
     need for architectural freedom, the countymetro township is adopting a three-tiered
     approach:
     1.   Option A provides for strict standards of height, area, and setback with permits issued
          by the Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township planning and development services
          division (the "division").
     2.   Option B allows the division to consider deviations from one or more of the standards
          provided in Option A based upon the compatibility of the proposed residential application
          with other houses in the immediate neighborhood.
     3.    Option C allows a planning commission to consider at a public hearing a special
          exception for unusual or extraordinary circumstances that justify deviations from one or
          more of the limitations under Options A and B.



19.71.020 - Overlay zone, scope and application.




                                                                                              Page 173
A.    Geographic Area of Application. Maps delineating the boundaries of the RCOZ are attached
     to the ordinance from which this chapter derived as Appendix A and will remain on file with
     the division. Such maps, as amended, are a part of this title as if fully described and detailed
     herein. Additional areas may be approved by the countymetro township council.
B.    Development Activities Covered. The standards and regulations contained in this chapter
     shall apply to all residential development, exterior remodeling and new construction projects
     commenced after the effective date of this chapter in the RCOZ, according to the zones listed
     in Table I below.
C.    Applicability to Lots of Record. The standards and regulations contained in this chapter shall
     apply to all legally subdivided lots, including those that were recorded prior to the enactment
     of this chapter.
D.    Exemption for Previous Residential Development. Noncomplying additions or expansions of
     buildings or structures commenced or completed prior to the enactment of this chapter are
     exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
E.    Inconsistent Provisions. When the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with provisions
     found in any other chapters of countymetro township ordinances, the most restrictive
     provisions shall apply.



19.71.030 - Option A. General standards—Planning and development services review.

A.     Application. Any person seeking to build a new residential structure or to significantly
     reconstruct, renovate or rebuild an existing structure in any zone listed in Table I shall obtain
     land-use approval from the division. An applicant may seek a determination of the applicable
     limits under Option A from the division prior to the submission of any building plans.
B.    Standards. Unless applying for approval under Option B or Option C, all applications shall
     comply with the following minimum standards:
     1.   Maximum Building Height. Each point on the highest ridge of the structure shall be no
          more than that specified in Table I, column (b) for the zone in which the property is
          situated. Maximum building height shall be measured in feet from that point on the
          original grade vertically below the referenced ridge height (not including chimneys and
          vent stacks).
     2.    Maximum Lot Coverage. The lot coverage of all structures on the lot shall be not more
          than the percentages given in Table I, column (d).
     3.   Front Yard. The minimum front yard setback shall be as specified in the applicable Salt
          LakeCopperton CountyMetro township code.
     4.    Side Yard. The combined side yard setbacks for any main structure shall be at least
          twenty-five percent of the lot width with no side setback less than eight feet. For purposes
          of this provision, "lot width" is the diameter of the largest circle that can be inscribed
          entirely within the lot, not including streams, fioodplains, wetlands, areas of thirty percent
          slope or greater or other natural hazard areas. No extensions, bay windows or similar
          building elements may encroach into the required setbacks under Option A, except for
          (a) attached air conditioning units, electrical boxes, utility meters and the like and (b) roof
          overhangs or eaves that extend no more than two feet into the area of the minimum side
          setback.


                                                                                               Page 174
5.    Rear Yard. The minimum rear setback of the primary residence and any accessory
     building shall be as specified in the applicable Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro
     township code.
6.    Building Envelope. The height of all structures is further limited by the building envelope
     created by starting at a point eight feet above ground at each point on the property line
     of the lot and extending on a line at a forty-five degree angle from the vertical toward the
     interior of the lot, the projection of such line on the horizontal plane of the lot to be
     perpendicular to the property line. The entire building must fit under this envelope except
     for dormers and gables that satisfy the following limitations:
     a.   A dormer may exceed the graduated height envelope, provided:
          i.     The width of the dormer is no more than fourteen feet;
          ii.    With multiple dormers, the distance to the front, or side edges of the roof is at
                 least one-half the distance between dormers; and
          iii.    The dormer is no higher than the ridge of the roof.
     b.   A gable may exceed the graduated height envelope, provided:
          i.     The height of the gable is no more than 1.75 times higher than the point where
                 the graduated height envelope intersects the gable; and
          ii.    The height of the gable is less than the maximum building height.
7.   Mass and Scale. To avoid a large, continuous building mass of uniform height; no portion
     of any building shall continue more than forty feet horizontally without a minimum of an
     eighteen-inch break in the roofline or an architectural element such as an overhang,
     projection, inset, material and textural change to create shadow patterns along the
     elevation of the building. The elements required by this section are in addition to all other
     requirements under this Part.
8.    Accessory Building. The highest ridge point of any accessory building shall be no more
     than twenty feet above the original grade vertically below it. All other requirements for
     auxiliary structures shall be as specified in the applicable Salt LakeCopperton
     CountyMetro township code.
9.    The following figure depicts selected building limitations as described above and is for
     illustrative purposes only:




                                                                                         Page 175
19.71.040 - Option B. Deviations from general standards based on neighborhood compatibility.

A.    Application. To obtain division approval of deviations from one or more of the requirements
     of 19.71.030.B.1, B.2, B.3 or B.4, an applicant must file a separate application in compliance
     with the corresponding conditions of 19.71.040.D. 1, D.2, D.3 or D.4. An applicant may seek
     a pre-determination of the allowable deviations for proposed construction under Option B
     from the division prior to submitting building plans.
B.    Evidence. Compliance with the corresponding conditions of Option B must be established
     by reliable photographic, engineering, architectural or other evidence from the proximate
     neighborhood.
C.     Deviations from Other Option A Requirements. No deviations from the Option A
     requirements of 19.71.030.B.5 through B.8 may be approved by the division.
D.    Permissible deviations from maximum building height, maximum lot coverage and minimum
     front and side setbacks under Option B are:
     1.   Maximum Building Height. The maximum building height that may be approved by the
          division under Option B is the lesser of:
          a.   Three feet plus the average maximum ridge height of residential structures that are
               on six lots of applicant's choice that:
               i.    Are within the proximate neighborhood of the subject property, as defined in
                     section 19.71.060.B; and
               ii.   For which the applicant provides adequate evidence of the maximum building
                     height, as defined in this chapter; or
          b.   The heights specified in column (c) of Table I for the applicable zone.



                                                                                          Page 176
     2.   Maximum Lot Coverage. The maximum lot coverage is 1.15 times the average of the lot
          coverage percentages of residential structures that are on six lots of applicant's choice
          that are within the proximate neighborhood of the subject property, such coverage not to
          exceed the percentages specified in Table I, column (e) for the applicable zone.
     3.   Minimum Front Setback. The minimum front setback is the average of the front setbacks
          of residential structures that are on six lots of applicant's choice that are within the
          proximate neighborhood of the subject property.
     4.     Minimum Side Setbacks. Subject to the twenty-five percent requirement of
          19.71.030.B.4, the minimum side setback is the average of the shorter side setback of
          residential structures that are on six lots of applicant's choice that are within the
          proximate neighborhood of the subject property, but in no event may it be less than six
          feet.
     5.   Approval of more than one deviation from subsections 19.71.040.D.1 through .4 must
          use the same six lots from the proximate neighborhood to support the requested
          deviations, whether or not requests for multiple deviations are in one or separate
          applications.
E.   Table I below summarizes and further defines lot coverage and distance in the various zones
     under Options A and B:
                                              Table I

        Option A        Option B
                                              Option A         Option B           Option B
       Maximum         Maximum
Zone                                         Maximum Lot      Maximum Lot         Proximate
     Building Height Building Height
 (a)        (1)             (1)              Coverage (2)     Coverage (2)     Neighborhood (3)
                                                 (d)              (e)                (f)
               (b)               (c)

R-1-5         28 ft.           33 ft.            35%              40%                100 ft.

R-1-6         28 ft.           33 ft.            35%              40%                100 ft.

R-1-8         28 ft.           33 ft.            33%              38%                150 ft.

 R-1-
              30 ft.           35 ft.            31%              36%                175 ft.
  10

 R-1-
              32 ft.           37 ft.            25%              30%                200 ft.
  21

 R-1-
              35 ft.           40 ft.            23%              28%                300 ft.
  43

 R-2-
              28 ft.           33 ft.            40%              45%                100 ft.
 6.5




                                                                                          Page 177
R-2-8           28 ft.            33 ft.           38%               43%               150 ft.

 R-2-
                30 ft.            35 ft.           35%               40%               175 ft.
  10

 A-1            30 ft.            35 ft.           31%               36%               175 ft.




     ;adv=6;(1)      Main dwelling
     (2)    All structures
     (3)    Radial distance from property boundaries



19.71.050 - Option C. Special Exception—Planning commission review.

A.   An applicant whose proposed residential structure meets neither the requirements of Option
     A nor of Option B may seek extraordinary relief and exceptions to the limitations of sections
     19.71.030.B.5, B.6, or B.7 or sections 19.71.040.D.1, D,2, D.3 or D.4 by submitting an original
     and seven copies of an application to the applicable planning commission setting forth in
     detail:
     1.     The specific provisions from which the applicant seeks exceptions and the requested
           relief;
     2.    Detailed information and explanation establishing that:
           a.   The proposed residence will be in harmony with the purpose of this chapter, the
                general plan and any other land use document applicable to the area.
           b.   The proposed residence will be compatible with existing residential development
                within a reasonable distance in terms of height, mass and lot coverage, with
                particular focus on the proximate neighborhood.
           c.    The proposed residence will not be detrimental to the health, safety and general
                welfare of persons residing within a reasonable distance, with particular focus on
                the proximate neighborhood.
           d.   Each point on the highest ridge of the structure will be no more than forty feet above
                the point on the original grade vertically below it (with allowances for chimneys and
                vent stacks).
           e.   The front yard setback will be at least eighteen feet.
     3.    Additional factors that the planning commission may consider in deciding whether to
           grant an exception under this Part include:
           a.   Unusual lot shape;
           b.   Unusual or difficult terrain;



                                                                                             Page 178
          c.   Drainage problems;
          d.   Situations that appear not to be clearly addressed by the provisions of Options A or
               B.
     4.   An application for an exception under this Option C will be subject to a public evidentiary
          hearing before the planning commission, for which notice of no less than ten days prior
          to the hearing will be given to:
          a.   All property owners appearing on the latest plat in the Salt Lake County recorder's
               office who own property within three hundred feet of the boundary of the subject lot;
               and
          b.   The chair of the community council for the area in which the subject lot is located.
B.    A decision on the application shall be based on the evidence presented at the hearing. The
     burden of proof shall rest with the applicant. The planning commission may impose such
     conditions and limitations upon the approval of an exception to the requirements of this
     chapter necessary to prevent or mitigate adverse effects on other properties in the
     neighborhood of the subject properties, consistent with the standards of this chapter.



19.71.060 - Definitions.

     For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
     A.    "Residential lot" means a legal lot included in one of the zones listed in Table I, column
          (a).
     B.    "Proximate neighborhood" of a subject lot means every residential lot, excluding the
          subject lot, which is within the distance from the subject lot specified in Table I, column
          (d). For the purpose of calculating maximum building height only, an immediately
          adjacent multi-resident structure such as an apartment or condominium building may be
          considered part of the proximate neighborhood.
     C.   "Lot coverage" means the measurement of land use intensity that represents the portion
          of the site occupied by the principal building and all accessory buildings, but excluding
          all other impervious improvements such as sidewalks, driveways, patios, decks and
          open porches.




                                                                                            Page 179
Chapter 19.72 - FOOTHILLS AND CANYONS OVERLAY ZONE (FCOZ)




19.72.010 - Purpose.                                                                                       Commented [CW25]: The purpose statements were
                                                                                                           revised in 2017 to reflect the emphasis of the Blue Ribbon
    The general purpose of the foothills and canyons overlay zone is to promote safe,                      Commission regarding “balance” between property rights
environmentally sensitive development that strikes a reasonable balance between the rights and             and environmental protections.
long-term interests of property owners and those of the general public. Specifically, these
standards are intended to:
     A.    Preserve the visual and aesthetic qualities of the foothills, canyons, and prominent
          ridgelines as defined herein, contributing to the general attractiveness and, where
          appropriate, the commercial viability of these areas.
     B.    Protect public health and safety by adopting standards designed to reduce risks
          associated with natural and man-made hazards.
     C.     Provide efficient, environmentally sensitive, and safe vehicular and pedestrian
          circulation.
     D.    Encourage development that conforms to the natural contours of the land and minimizes
          the scarring and erosion effects of cutting, filling and grading on hillsides, ridgelines, and
          steep slopes.
     E.    Balance private and commercial needs against the risk of destabilizing fragile soils,
          defacing steep slopes and degrading water quality.
     F.    Minimize disturbance to existing trees and vegetation, conserve wildlife habitat, protect
          aquifer recharge areas, and otherwise preserve environmentally sensitive natural areas
          by encouraging clustering, the transfer of development rights, or other design techniques
          to preserve the natural terrain.
     G.     Reduce flooding by protecting streams, drainage channels, absorption areas, and
          floodplains.
     H.     Protect property rights and commercial interests, and encourage economic
          development.
     I.   Recognize the link between environmental protection and economic prosperity in the
          canyons.



19.72.020 - Applicability.

A.    Geographic Area of Application. Maps delineating the boundaries of the foothills and
     canyons overlay zone are on file with the planning and development services division. Such
     maps, as amended, are incorporated into this chapter as if fully described and detailed herein.
B.   Development Activities Covered. The standards and regulations of the foothills and canyons
     overlay zone apply to all development that occurs within the mapped foothills and canyons
     overlay zone. Development includes all land disturbance activities such as grading, clearing,
     and excavation.


                                                                                              Page 180
C.    Jurisdictional Exemptions. These provisions do not apply to properties owned by the state
     or the government of the United States, except as specifically authorized by state or federal
     statute or regulation, intergovernmental agreement, or other form of cooperative agreement.
D.    Recognition of Salt Lake City Extraterritorial Jurisdiction. Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro        Commented [CW26]: Salt Lake City’s jurisdiction over
     township recognizes that Salt Lake City has extraterritorial jurisdiction for protection of its     watershed areas in the Wasatch canyons is written into
     watershed located in the canyons east of Salt Lake City from City Creek Canyon south to             State Law.
     Little Cottonwood Canyon. All development in the countymetro township impacting surface
     water, wells, storage facilities, or aquifers located within Salt Lake City watershed areas shall
     be referred to Salt Lake City to confirm compliance with applicable ordinances and watershed
     protection standards. If confirmation is not received within the time prescribed by countymetro
     township ordinance for processing applications, the planning commission or director may
     approve the application subject to confirmation being received prior to a building permit being
     issued. The countymetro township shall notify other water providers of which the countymetro
     township is aware that have protected watersheds in the canyons and may have authority
     over the proposed development within those areas. Notification shall include a copy of the
     application, any public hearing dates for the application, and contact information for the
     countymetro township planning and development services division.
E.    Mountain Resort Zone. Due to the unique and specialized uses of mountain resort properties,        Commented [CW27]: The MRZ was written specifically to
     including recreational and mixed residential and commercial uses, mountain resorts may              cover ski resorts. Emigration Metro took this part out of
     apply for specialized mountain resort ("MRZ") zoning. Should a resort choose not to apply for       their FCOZ ordinance.
     MRZ zoning, it shall be subject to all of the requirements of the underlying zone and this
     chapter.



19.72.030 - FCOZ Development approval procedures.

A.    Purpose. The purpose of this section is to outline the site plan application and approval
     process required for all development or construction activity, including tree/vegetation
     removal and grading, or subdivision of land, in the foothills and canyons overlay zone.
B.    Joint Applications. Where a process is already established by ordinance or agreement for
     review and approval of a land use application in the foothills and canyons (such as a
     subdivision, conditional use or permitted use site plan, development agreement, or variance
     process), applicable FCOZ standards shall be applied concurrently with the related
     application. If there is no related land use application under review, the applicant shall be
     subject to the following process.                                                                   Commented [CW28]: The process in this code is only for
                                                                                                         applications unique to FCOZ. Where the ordinance already
C.   Application Process.                                                                                has a process (for conditional uses or planned unit
     1.   Pre-Application Meeting.                                                                       developments, for example) this section does not apply.

          a.   Purpose. An informal pre-application meeting with the director is required prior to
               submitting a site development plan application. The purposes of the pre-application
               meeting are to provide an opportunity for the parties to discuss:
               i.    The application submittal, review and approval process.
               ii.   The proposed development of the site and its relationship to site conditions and
                     area characteristics, including geologic, hydrologic, and environmental issues.
          b.   Scheduling of Pre-Application Meeting. To request a pre-application meeting, the
               applicant shall submit a pre-application meeting request on a form provided by the


                                                                                             Page 181
               countymetro township, together with any required fees and materials. Upon
               submittal of a complete application, the development proposal shall be scheduled
               for discussion at a pre-application meeting.
          c.    Attendance. In addition to the director, other countymetro township participants in
               the pre-application meeting may include representatives from the health
               department, countymetro township engineer's office, fire department, Salt Lake City
               department of public utilities, and any other person or entity the countymetro
               township deems appropriate
     2.   Site Development Plan.
          a.   Application.
               i.     Upon conclusion of the pre-application meeting process, an applicant seeking
                      approval of a development plan shall submit an application form, together with
                      required maps, plans, reports, special requests, and fees, to the director. All
                      submitted materials shall be available for public review.
               ii.    Following documentation of assurances provided at the pre-application meeting
                      or field inspections, the director may waive or modify submittal requirements
                      deemed unnecessary.
               iii.    The director may require additional information, as necessary, to substantiate
                      compliance with the provisions and standards of this chapter and other
                      applicable codes and ordinances. For example, the director may seek technical
                      and policy recommendations from other public agencies with related legal
                      jurisdiction such as the local health department; state division of wildlife
                      resources; state division of forestry, fire, and state lands; U.S. Forest Service;
                      and U.S. Soil Conservation Service.
          b.    Staff Review. The director shall review the development proposal for compliance
               with the standards and processes of this ordinance, including Paragraph D below,
               and shall document findings in a written report. The report shall specify all areas of
               noncompliance with regulations together with any recommended modifications or
               conditions of approval to mitigate detrimental impacts and bring the plan into
               compliance, and shall be made available to the public and provided to the applicant
               (unless specifically waived by the applicant) no less than three business days prior
               to any applicable planning commission meeting.
D.    Approval Standards. The following is a summary of site development plan review standards.
     Failure to document compliance with any of the following may result in denial of a site
     development application.
     1.   The development is consistent with the purposes and intent of the policies, goals, and
          objectives of any applicable plan, including the Wasatch Canyons general plan, the Salt
          LakeCopperton CountyMetro township regional trails plan, and applicable community
          general plans, as amended.
     2.    The site plan, grading, construction, and development activities comply with the
          mandatory requirements of the FCOZ, unless modifications or waivers have been
          expressly granted.
     3.    The development complies with all applicable development regulations, standards,
          requirements, or plans adopted by the local or state authority, including but not limited
          to water quality and wastewater regulations.


                                                                                               Page 182
E.   Expiration of Site Development Plan/Issuance of a Building Permit.
     1.   A building permit issued pursuant to the FCOZ site development plan approval process
          must reference all conditions or stipulations applicable to such approval. All
          development, construction, and use shall be in accordance with the approved site
          development plan.
     2.   An approved site development plan shall be valid for a period of twelve months from the
          date of the final approval, unless authorized as a multi-phase development.
     3.    A building permit may be obtained at any time within the twelve-month period. If
          substantial progress towards obtaining a building permit is not made within the one-year
          period, approval of the site development plan automatically lapses and the plan is null
          and void.
     4.    A building permit issued for any phase of a development that has received site
          development plan approval may extend the life of the site development plan for the entire
          development for an additional twelve months from the date of issuance of the building
          permit. If any successive twelve-month period expires before a building permit
          application is filed for a subsequent phase or phases, then the site development plan
          approval automatically lapses and the plan is null and void as to all undeveloped or un-
          built phases of the development, unless substantial progress toward obtaining a building
          permit is demonstrated.
     5.    A twelve month extension of the life of the site development plan may be obtained
          subject to paying an extension fee equal to the conditional use and subdivision extension
          fee in the township services planning review fee schedule on file with township services.
F.   Appeals. Pursuant to Section 19.92.050 of this title, any person adversely affected by a final
     decision of the zoning authority may appeal that decision to the land use hearing officer.



19.72.040 - Underlying zoning district.

A.    Conflicts. Unless specifically exempted or modified by the underlying zone, such as a           Commented [CW29]: As an overlay zone, there are
     mountain resort zone, all development shall comply with the standards of this chapter.           sometimes conflicts with the underlying zoning
                                                                                                      requirements. This clarifies.
B.    Division of Consolidated Lots. Previously platted lots consolidated into one taxable parcel
     may not be re-divided into lots smaller than the minimum area required in the underlying         Commented [CW30]: This is to keep people who have
     zone.                                                                                            combined several old non-conforming lots from re-dividing
                                                                                                      them.
C.    Setbacks. Setbacks from property lines are established by the underlying zone. If no
     setbacks are stated, an applicant wishing to locate a building closer than ten feet to the
     property line shall demonstrate that the structure will not place additional burden on
     neighboring properties by addressing the following factors: snow load, drainage, access, fire
     protection, and building code.



19.72.050 - Cluster development.                                                                      Commented [CW31]: This is to encourage developers to
                                                                                                      set aside larger tracts of open space by clustering lots.
A.   General Requirements. Cluster development is the grouping of residential properties on lots      Clustering the lots saves the developer infrastructure costs.
     smaller than allowed in the underlying zone to reduce infrastructure costs and environmental



                                                                                          Page 183
     impacts and to reserve otherwise developable land for open space or recreation. Whether
     proposed by an applicant or required by the planning commission, cluster development may
     only be approved upon satisfaction of the following conditions:
     1.   The clustering proposal meets all other applicable requirements set forth in the foothills
          and canyons overlay zone or in other applicable ordinances or regulations.
     2.    The clustering proposal, compared with a more traditional site plan, better attains the
          policies and objectives of the foothills and canyons overlay zone, such as providing more
          natural open space, preserving existing trees and vegetation coverage, and preserving
          sensitive environmental areas such as stream corridors, slide areas, prominent
          ridgelines, wetlands, and steep slopes.
     3.   The clustering proposal shall have minimal adverse impact on adjacent properties or
          development, or, if such impacts may result, the applicant has agreed to implement
          appropriate mitigation measures such as landscape, screening, illumination standards,
          and other design features as recommended by the director to buffer and protect adjacent
          properties from the proposed clustered development.
     4.   The architecture, height, building materials, building colors, and other design features of
          the development blend with the surrounding natural landscape and are compatible with
          adjacent properties or development.
B.   Density Bonus for Cluster Development.                                                              Commented [CW32]: An added incentive to clustering in
                                                                                                         exchanges for preserving more open space.
     1.    A cluster density bonus of up to twenty-five percent over the base density permitted in
          the underlying zone may be available for cluster developments that satisfy the above
          standards while taking into account the bonus density.
     2.    The allowable density bonus for a cluster development is equal to twenty-five percent of
          the "net developable acreage," and must be rounded to the nearest whole number, but
          in no case less than one.
     3.   The density bonus for clustering allowed pursuant to subsection B.1 is not allowed in the
          MRZ.
C.   Cluster Development Design.
     1.   The undeveloped area of the development site shall be preserved as active or passive
          natural open space. Natural open space areas shall conform with any adopted
          countymetro township open space and/or trail plans, provide contiguity with adjacent
          natural open space and/or conservation areas, protect unique natural, historic, or cultural
          site features and resources, and avoid fragmentation of conservation areas within the
          site
     2.   The maximum number of lots allowed in a single cluster is twenty lots. Each cluster shall
          be separated from other residential clusters by a minimum of one-hundred feet.
     3.    The layout of a cluster development shall protect significant natural resources on or
          adjacent to the site. Natural resources include riparian areas, wetlands, ecological
          resources, steep slopes and ridgelines, and wildlife habitat and corridors. The overall
          site design shall employ the site's natural topography to hide multiple residential clusters
          from the sight of adjacent clusters.
     4.   A cluster development shall preserve the open sky backdrop above any ridgelines and,
          where possible, significant views of the natural landscape as viewed from adjacent
          streets.


                                                                                             Page 184
D.     Illustration of Cluster Development. Figure 19.72.1: Cluster Development illustrates
     recommended cluster development.
FIGURE 19.72.1: CLUSTER DEVELOPMENT




19.72.060 - Slope protection.                                                                         Commented [CW33]: Slopes over 30% are considered
                                                                                                      “unbuildable, with some exceptions available for pre-
A.   Slope Protection Standards.                                                                      existing lots to build on slopes up to 40%. Also prevents
                                                                                                      building on prominent ridgelines.
     1.    Unless otherwise allowed in this Title, no development activities, including clearing,
          excavation, grading, and construction, are allowed on slopes greater than thirty percent.
     2.   Structures shall be set back from ascending or descending slopes greater than thirty
          percent in accordance with the requirements of the current adopted building code.
B.   Development on Ridgelines.
     1.    Unless otherwise allowed in this title, no development may break the horizon line,
          defined as the point where the ridge visibly meets the sky as viewed from public rights
          of way or trails.
     2.    Unless otherwise allowed in this title, no development may be located within one-
          hundred feet (map distance) from either side of the crest of a protected ridgeline
          designated as such in an adopted countymetro township master plan or incorporated by
          other ordinance.
     3.   Figure 19.72.2: Ridgeline Development illustrates recommended ridgeline development.
FIGURE 19.72.2: RIDGELINE DEVELOPMENT




                                                                                          Page 185
C.    Natural Open Space within Steep Slopes. Unless expressly allowed in this title, all areas
     with slope greater than thirty percent must remain in natural private or public open space,
     free of any development activities.
D.   Waiver of Slope Protection Standards for Lots of Record.
     1.    The planning commission may only waive or modify the following slope protection
          standards as applied to development on lots of record and in subdivisions that were
          approved prior to the effective date of this chapter:
          a.   Slope protection standards prohibiting development on slopes greater than thirty
               percent or in ridge line protection areas, as set forth above.
          b.   Limitations on the crossing of slopes greater than thirty percent by any street, road,
               private access road or other vehicular route, as addressed in Subsection 19.72.080.
     2.    The planning commission may only waive these standards upon satisfaction of the
          following criteria:
          a.   Strict compliance with the above slope protection standards.
               i.     Renders the site undevelopable, or
               ii.     Results in substantial economic hardship not created by the applicant or
                      otherwise self-imposed, or
               iii.    Results in a building location that requires excessive grading, vegetation
                      removal, or driveway distances in conflict with the purposes of this chapter; and
          b.   The development substantially conforms to all other development, site design, and
               environmental standards of this chapter and in all other applicable ordinances and
               codes.
     3.    In granting a waiver from slope and ridge line protection standards, the planning
          commission may impose reasonable conditions to mitigate the impacts, if any, that the
          planning commission determines the proposed development has on adjacent properties
          and the surrounding environment.
     4.   Notwithstanding its discretion to grant waivers for lots of record from the slope protection
          standards set forth in this chapter, in no case shall the planning commission permit
          development other than roads on slopes greater than forty percent.
     5.    In the interest of protecting the public health, safety, and welfare, the countymetro
          township may pursue negotiations with a property owner to purchase their property as



                                                                                              Page 186
          open space as an alternative to granting a waiver. These negotiations, as long as they
          are performed in good faith, shall not delay the countymetro township's processing of
          any land use application.



19.72.070 - Grading standards.                                                                           Commented [CW34]: Limits on how much you can
                                                                                                         change the grade and on size of retaining walls.
A.    Prior to issuance of a building permit in accordance with a grading and excavation plan and
     report for the site approved by the development services engineer; no grading, excavation,
     or tree/vegetation removal is permitted, whether to provide for a building site, for on-site
     utilities or services, or for any roads or driveways.
B.    Figure 19.72.3: Cutting and Grading illustrates recommended development that minimizes
     cuts.
FIGURE 19.72.3: CUTTING AND GRADING




C.    The original, natural grade of a lot may not be raised or lowered more than four feet at any
     point for construction of any structure or improvement, except:
     1.   The site's original grade may be raised or lowered eight feet if a retaining wall is used to
          reduce the steepness of man-made slopes, provided that the retaining wall complies with
          the requirements of subsection I. below.
     2.   The site's original grade may be raised or lowered more than eight feet with terracing,
          as specified in subsection I. below.
D.    Separate building pads for accessory buildings other than private garages, (such as barns,
     or recreational structures such as tennis courts, swimming pools, and similar facilities) are
     prohibited except where the natural slope is twenty percent or less.
E.   The following limits apply to graded or filled man-made slopes:
     1.   Slopes of twenty-five percent or less are encouraged wherever possible.
     2.   Graded or filled man-made slopes may not exceed a slope of fifty percent.
     3.   Cut man-made surfaces or slopes may not exceed a slope of fifty percent unless it is
          substantiated, on the basis of a site investigation and submittal of a soils engineering or
          geotechnical report prepared and certified by a qualified professional, that a cut at a
          steeper slope will be stable and will not create a hazard to public or private property.
     4.    All cut, filled, and graded slopes shall be re-contoured to the natural, varied contour of
          the surrounding terrain.




                                                                                             Page 187
F.    Any slope exposed or created in new development shall be landscaped or re-vegetated
     pursuant to the standards and provisions of this chapter.
G.    Excavation for footings and foundations shall be minimized to lessen site disturbance and
     ensure compatibility with hillside and sloped terrain. Intended excavation must be supported
     by detailed engineering plans submitted as part of the application for site plan approval.
H.    Use of retaining walls is encouraged to reduce the steepness of man-made slopes and to
     provide planting pockets conducive to re-vegetation.
     1.   If a single retaining wall is used, one vertical retaining wall up to eight feet in height is
          permitted to reduce excavation and embankment.
     2.   Terracing is limited to two walls with a maximum vertical height of six feet each. The
          width of a terrace shall be a minimum of a one-to-one ratio with the height of the wall.
          Terraces are measured from the back of the lower wall to the face of the upper wall.
          Terraces created between retaining walls shall be permanently landscaped or re-
          vegetated as required by this chapter.
     3.   Figure 19.72.4: Terracing and Retaining Walls illustrates recommended terracing.

FIGURE 19.72.4: TERRACING & RETAINING WALLS




                                                                                              Page 188
     4.    Retaining walls shall be faced with stone or earth-colored materials similar to the
          surrounding natural landscape, as required by the design standards of foothills and
          canyons overlay zone.
     5.   All retaining walls shall comply with the minimum standards of the International Building
          Code.
I.   Except for restoration and maintenance activities authorized by the state engineer and county
     flood control division, filling or dredging of water courses, wetlands, gullies, stream beds, or
     stormwater runoff channels is prohibited. Bridge construction is allowed pursuant to the
     standards set forth of this section.
J.    Where detention basins and other storm and erosion control facilities are required, any
     negative visual and aesthetic impacts on the natural landscape and topography shall be
     minimized. See Figure 19.72.5: Recommended Detention Basin Treatment which illustrates
     recommended treatment.




                                                                                            Page 189
     1.   Detention basins shall be free form, following the natural landforms. If such forms do not
          exist, the basin shall be shaped to emulate a naturally formed depression.
     2.   Redistributing soils from basin construction to natural side slopes around the perimeter
          of the basin is encouraged. Side slopes are limited to a maximum slope of three-to-one.
          These slopes are created to filter, redirect or soften views of the basin. Total screening
          of basins is not required. Side slopes shall be varied to replicate natural conditions.
     3.    Naturalized planting themes are required for basins. Trees and shrubs may be grouped
          in informal patterns to emulate the natural environment but may not reduce the volume
          of the basin.
     4.   The ground surface of the basin and surrounding disturbed areas shall be covered with
          native grass mixture or other appropriate groundcover. It is the intent to provide a natural
          cover that does not require regular mowing or fertilization.
     5.   Appropriate erosion control measures are required on all slopes.
FIGURE 19.72.5: RECOMMENDED DETENTION BASIN TREATMENT




19.72.080 - Site access.                                                                                 Commented [CW35]: Regulates the maximum slope
                                                                                                         allowable for access roads as well as how much of that road
A.    Motor vehicle access to a building or development site shall be by road (including private         may cross slopes over 30%.
     access road), street, alley, or driveway. Any road, street, alley, or driveway constructed after
     the enactment of this chapter shall comply with the applicable requirements of this section.
B.    Streets, roads, alleys, or driveways shall comply with the Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro
     township highway ordinance and fire authority regulations.
C.    Streets, roads, alleys, or driveways may not cross slopes averaging (in any fifty feet interval)
     between thirty percent and fifty percent unless specifically authorized by the Planning
     Commission, upon the favorable recommendation of the director and public works engineer,
     after finding that all of the following conditions and constraints are met:



                                                                                             Page 190
     1.   No alternate location for access is feasible or available.
     2.   No individual segment or increment of the street, road, alley, or driveway in excess of
          one hundred feet in length may cross slopes averaging between thirty percent and fifty
          percent.
     3.   The cumulative length of individual segments or increments that cross slopes averaging
          between thirty percent and fifty percent may not exceed ten percent of the total length of
          the street, road, alley, or driveway.
     4.    All crossings shall be designed and constructed to eliminate significant adverse
          environmental or safety impacts.
D.    Under no circumstances shall any segment of a street, road, alley, or driveway cross slopes
     averaging greater than fifty percent.
E.    Streets, roads, alleys, or driveways shall follow natural contour lines where possible. If the
     natural contour lines do not reasonably facilitate access to the development site, a private
     access road or driveway may be designed and submitted for approval with a slope not to
     exceed the requirements set forth in Title 14 of the countymetro township Code. Figure
     19.72.6: Recommended Access Route Configuration illustrates the access route following
     natural contours.
FIGURE 19.72.6: RECOMMENDED ACCESS ROUTE CONFIGURATION




F.    Grading for streets, roads, alleys, or driveways is limited to the paved portion of the right-of-
     way, plus up to an additional ten feet on either side of the pavement as approved. However,
     when developing access on slopes in excess of twenty-five percent, only the paved portion
     of the right-of-way used for vehicular travel, plus the minimum area required for any additional
     improvements, such as curb, gutter or sidewalk, may be graded. The remainder of the access
     right-of-way must be left undisturbed.
G.    Streets or roads may be required to provide access or maintain existing access to adjacent
     lands for vehicles, pedestrians, emergency services, and essential service and maintenance
     equipment.




                                                                                              Page 191
H.    Private access roads and driveways shall ensure safe, convenient and adequate access to
     individual buildings. Driveway access to a development must be consistent with Salt
     LakeCopperton CountyMetro township general plans. In addition, provision of private access
     road and driveway access is subject to the following requirements:
     1.   All private access roads and driveways shall comply with the Salt LakeCopperton
          CountyMetro township highway ordinances and fire authority regulations.
     2.   Private access roads and driveways greater than one hundred fifty feet in length shall
          meet the following requirements:
          a.   Provide a turnaround that meets the countymetro township's road/street and fire
               authority standards.
          b.   Provide an adequate number of spaced turn-outs along the length of the private
               access road or driveway, as determined by the public works engineer in consultation
               with the fire authority.
     3.    If variation from the above standards is sought, the applicant shall apply for a written
          Code Modification Approval from the fire authority that specifies any additional
          requirements that must be completed prior to construction.
     4.   Shared private roads and driveways are encouraged between adjacent lots.
     5.   Private access roads and driveways to a building site shall have direct access to a public
          street or to a private right-of-way previously approved by the planning commission.
     6.   Finished grades shall comply with the following:
          a.    Finished private access roads and driveways are limited to a maximum grade of
               twelve percent, or as determined by the public works engineer on a case-by-case
               basis based on health and safety concerns and the need for adequate access for
               countymetro township service providers. In no case, however, may the public works
               engineer approve a maximum grade greater than fifteen percent.
          b.    Private access road and driveway grades within twenty feet of the roadway are
               limited to ten percent slope.
     7.    The director has discretion to administratively offer relief of the driveway access
          standards by a maximum of twenty-five percent where applicable upon satisfaction of
          the following criteria:
          a.   The modification is designed to yield:
               i.     More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas,
                      rock outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;
               ii.    Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or
               iii.    Better protection of wildlife habitat; or,
          b.   Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.



19.72.090 - Trails.                                                                                       Commented [CW36]: This section is about providing
                                                                                                          access to existing or master-planned trails.
A.    All proposed development in the foothills and canyons overlay zone shall be platted
     consistent with countymetro township general plans regarding trails, including those portions


                                                                                              Page 192
     of the adopted Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township parks and recreation master plan
     that address trails and trail access locations. A dedication of private land may be required for
     public trails if the required dedication complies with the exaction requirements set forth in
     Utah Code Section 17-27a10-9a-507(1).
B.    All land offered for dedication for trails or public access to trails must be verified on the
     ground by the director before approval of the site plan. The countymetro township has the
     option of rejecting the applicant's offered land dedication if the proposed dedication does not
     comply with the exaction requirements set forth in Utah Code Section 17-27a10-9a-507(1),
     or the requirements set forth in subsection (C) below; the countymetro township may suggest
     more suitable land for the applicant's consideration that does comply with each of these
     requirements.
C.   Land offered for dedication for trails must be located so that:
     1.    Proposed trail construction and maintenance is feasible.
     2.    Side slopes do not exceed seventy percent.
     3.    Rock cliffs and other insurmountable physical obstructions are avoided.
D.    At the countymetro township's sole option, dedications for trails or public access may be of
     a fee or less-than-fee interest to either the countymetro township, another unit of government,
     or non-profit land conservation organization approved by the countymetro township.
E.    The CountyMetro township may allow a density bonus up to twenty-five percent of the
     maximum allowable density attributable to areas of the site with greater than thirty percent
     slope to be transferred to the developable areas of the site where the applicant demonstrates
     that the offered dedication is beyond what would be roughly proportional to the demand for
     such trails or trail access generated by the proposed development. The countymetro
     township may reduce the applicable minimum lot area requirement within the site's
     developable area if necessary to accommodate the transferred density.



19.72.100 - Fences.                                                                                     Commented [CW37]: Very restrictive. Emigration
                                                                                                        Canyon adopted changes to this.
A.   No fence may be constructed or installed unless shown on an approved site plan.
B.   No fence in excess of forty-two inches in height may be constructed or installed outside the
     designated limits of disturbance on a site, unless required by the countymetro township, such
     as fenced corrals for horses or other animals. Fences are subject to the intersecting streets
     and clear visibility restrictions of this title.
C.   Fences in front yards and along roadways may not exceed forty-two inches in height.
D.    Fences in identified wildlife corridors are strongly discouraged, but in no case may exceed
     forty-two inches in height.
E.   Fences shall conform to the design standards of this section.


19.72.100        FENCES                                                                                 Commented [CW38]: This is Emigration’s version of
                                                                                                        “Fences”
          A. No fence may be constructed or installed unless shown on an approved site plan.
          B. Fences shall conform to the design standards of 19.72.170(W).


                                                                                            Page 193
          C. Except as allowed in this section, no fence in excess of forty-two (42) inches in
             height may be constructed or installed. Fences are subject to the Intersecting Streets
             and Clear Visibility restrictions of this Title.
          D. Exceptions:
             1. Fences within the established limits of disturbance, which are used to screen
                outdoor patio or services areas up to 900 square feet, may exceed 42 inches in
                height, provided they do not block identified wildlife corridors.
             2. Privacy barriers along Emigration Canyon Road may exceed 42 inches in height
                provided:
                 a. The visual impact is mitigated by providing a 5-foot minimum horizontal
                    articulation a minimum of every 40 feet of linear fence or wall, or by providing
                    landscaping between the fence or wall and the road;
                 b. The fence or wall is set back a minimum of 20 feet from the paved surface of
                    the road:
                 c. The fence or wall is compliant with section 19.76.160 - Intersecting streets
                    and clear visibility; and,
                 d. The fence or wall contains a wildlife crossing opening at least 6 feet wide a
                    minimum of every 100 linear feet. This opening may be accomplished
                    between fences or walls on adjoining properties by setting each fence or wall
                    3 feet from the adjoining side property line.
             3. The planning commission may approve fences that exceed the limits set forth in
                this Chapter as necessary to corral animals, to secure telecommunication
                facilities, public utilities, or other similar facilities, or to secure property upon
                finding that:
                 a. There are topographic hardships unique to the property;
                 b. Overriding public safety issues justify the proposed fence; or,
                 c. The purposes of the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone respecting
                    protection of sensitive slopes, wildlife habitat, streams, and/or natural
                    vegetation are better served by approval of a site development plan that
                    includes the proposed alternative fencing design.
             4. In no case shall a fence or wall allowed under D.1 through D.3 above be taller than
                7 feet in height.



19.72.110 - Tree and vegetation protection.                                                              Commented [CW39]: This section is designed to
                                                                                                         incentivize preserving existing trees as much as possible,
A.   Purpose. Protection of existing tree and vegetation cover is intended to:                           while also recognizing that fire dangers require the creation
                                                                                                         of “defensible space,” meaning some trees and vegetation
     1.    Preserve the visual and aesthetic qualities of the countymetro township's foothills and       will need to be removed.
           canyons.
     2.     Encourage site design techniques that preserve the natural environment and enhance
           the developed environment.
     3.    Control erosion, slippage, and sediment run-off into streams and waterways.


                                                                                              Page 194
     4.   Increase slope stability.
     5.   Protect wildlife habitat and migration corridors.
     6.   Conserve energy, in proximity to structures, by reducing building heating and cooling
          costs.
B.    Applicability. These provisions apply to all development in the foothills and canyons overlay
     zone, with the following exceptions:
     1.   The removal of dead or naturally fallen trees or vegetation to protect public health, safety,
          and welfare.
     2.    The selective and limited removal of trees or vegetation necessary to obtain clear
          visibility at driveways or intersections, to perform authorized field survey work, or to
          protect structures from fire consistent with the Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code.
     3.    The removal of trees or vegetation on land zoned or lawfully used for agricultural and
          forestry activities, including tree farms, or pursuant to approved forest management
          programs. In the event a site is substantially cleared of trees pursuant to such legitimate
          activities, no development or site plan applications for other types of development may
          be accepted by the countymetro township within thirty-six months from the date of the
          clearing.
     4.   The director has discretion to administratively offer relief of the standards in this section
          by up to twenty-five percent if either of the following circumstances applies:
          a.   The modification is designed to yield:
               i.     More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas,
                      rock outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;
               ii.    Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or
               iii.    Better protection of wildlife habitat; or,
          b.   Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.
C.   Tree/Vegetation Removal.
     1.   Outside the Limits of Disturbance. No trees or vegetation may be removed outside the
          approved limits of disturbance unless specifically exempted by this section.
     2.    Within the Limits of Disturbance. Significant trees removed from within the limits of
          disturbance shall be replaced as set forth in this section.
     3.    Wildfire Hazards and Tree/Vegetation Removal. Defensible space is defined as the
          required space between a structure and wildland area that, under normal conditions,
          creates a sufficient buffer to slow or halt the spread of wildfire to a structure. Appropriate
          defensible space surrounding a structure is established in Utah Wildland-Urban Interface
          Code incorporated in UFA Wildland-Urban Interface Site Plan/Development Review
          Guide. A copy of the approved fire protection plan shall be submitted to the zoning
          administrator for incorporation into the final approval documents.
     4.   Tree/Vegetation Removal for Views Prohibited. No trees or vegetation may be removed
          solely for the purpose of providing open views to or from structures on a site.
D.   Replacement of Significant Trees.




                                                                                              Page 195
     1.    When a significant tree is removed from inside the established limits of disturbance,
          which removal is not required by wildland-urban interface standards referenced in C.3.
          above, the applicant or developer shall replace such tree(s) on the lot, according to the
          following schedule and requirements:
          a.   A significant tree that is removed shall be replaced by two trees with a minimum
               size of one inch caliper for deciduous trees and a minimum height of four feet for
               coniferous trees in locations on the lot that are appropriate, feasible, and practical,
               and that comply with fire requirements and standards, as determined by the zoning
               administrator.
          b.   Replacement trees shall be maintained through an establishment period of at least
               two years. The applicant shall post a bond in the amount of ten percent of the value
               of all replacement trees guaranteeing their health and survival during the first year
               of the establishment period.
     2.   If the remainder of the lot outside the permitted limits of disturbance is heavily wooded,
          defined as areas of trees with canopies that cover eighty percent of the area, and is not
          suitable to the planting of replacement trees, the requirement to plant replacement trees
          requirement may be waived by the zoning administrator.
     3.   Planting replacement trees may be allowed by the zoning administrator on parcels within
          the subdivision or adjoining open space or forest service land upon the written consent
          of the property owner or representative of the property owner of the parcel(s) where the
          trees are being planted. In order to minimize disturbance of public land, saplings may be
          used in lieu of the larger trees listed in subsection 1.(a) above at the rate of ten saplings
          per required replacement tree, for trees planted on publicly owned land.
E.   Revegetation and Land Reclamation Plan.
     1.    On a parcel of land that has been or will be altered from its natural condition by man-
          made activities, a revegetation and land reclamation plan prepared and certified by a
          qualified professional may be required for review and approval by the director. The plan
          shall incorporate the elements of the fire protection plan, and shall indicate a timeframe
          for revegetation that is acceptable to the countymetro township and that takes into
          account optimal seasonal growing conditions.
     2.    The revegetation and land reclamation plan shall depict the type, size, number, and
          location of any vegetation and trees to be planted and illustrate how the site will be
          recontoured with sufficient topsoil to ensure that vegetation is successful. All new trees
          shown on the plan shall:
          a.   Comply with the Vegetation Clearance Guidelines of the Wildland-Urban Interface
               Code;
          b.   Be spaced no closer than twenty feet on center; and,
          c.   Be on the Utah Fire Resistive Species list in the Wildland-Urban Interface Code.
     3.   Any slope exposed or created in new development shall be landscaped or revegetated
          with native or adapted trees and plant material. New vegetation shall be equivalent to or
          exceed the amount and erosion-control characteristics of the original vegetation cover in
          order to mitigate adverse environmental and visual effects.
     4.   On man-made slopes of twenty-five percent or greater, plant materials with deep rooting
          characteristics shall be selected to minimize erosion and reduce surface runoff. The



                                                                                              Page 196
          planting basin shall be kept level with a raised berm around the base of the plant to help
          retain moisture.
     5.    Topsoil that is removed during construction may be conserved for later use on areas
          requiring revegetation or landscaping, such as cut-and-fill slopes.
     6.   The land reclamation plan may not include landscaping or other elements that conflict
          with the approved fire protection plan.
F.   Tree/Vegetation Protection During Construction and Grading Activities.
     1.   Limits of disturbance, as established in Section 19.72.160, shall be shown on the final
          plans for development and shall be clearly delineated on site with fencing or other
          separation methods approved by the director prior to the commencement of excavation,
          grading, or construction activities on the site.
     2.    Within the limits of disturbance, fencing, at a minimum, shall be placed around each
          significant tree that will not be removed and around stands of twelve or more smaller
          trees. Such fencing shall be placed at the edge of the individual or outermost tree's drip
          zone. No construction, grading, equipment or material storage, or any other activity is
          allowed within the drip zone, and the fencing must remain in place until all land alteration,
          construction, and development activities are completed.
     3.    If it is necessary to fill over the root zone, compacted soils shall be avoided by
          sandwiching fabric, rocks, and more fabric under the area to be filled.
     4.    If fill creates a tree well or depression around a tree or shrubs, such area shall be filled
          in or drained so that the vegetation is not drowned by the pooling of rainfall or irrigation.
     5.   If a significant tree that will not be removed has roots that are cut, the branches shall be
          trimmed by an amount equal to the percent of roots that were lost. Cutting more than
          thirty percent is prohibited. Roots shall be pruned cleanly prior to digging and not ripped
          off by heavy equipment. If the tree whose roots have been cut dies within a two year
          period, the replacement provision in section D above applies.
     6.   Utility trenches near trees shall be avoided. If a line must be near a tree, tunneling,
          auguring, or other mitigation measures shall be used.
G.   Tree Removal not Authorized by this Section.                                                            Commented [CW40]: This section was added to penalize
                                                                                                             people who blatantly remove large numbers of trees in
     1.    If a significant tree(s) is removed contrary to any provision in this section, the person(s)      violation of the ordinance.
          responsible for the removal shall pay to the countymetro township the value of the
          tree(s).
          a.    The value of the tree(s) shall be determined by a tree appraiser who is an ISA
               (International Society of Arboriculture) certified arborist with at least five years of
               experience appraising trees using the appraisal methods outlined in the current
               edition of "The Guide for Plant Appraisal," authored by the Council of Tree and
               Landscape Appraisers (CTLA). The appraiser shall prepare an appraisal report
               using these methods, and adding to the value from these methods an analysis of
               the tree(s) contributory value, i.e., the value that the tree(s) contributed to the overall
               value of the property on which they were located.
          b.   The appraiser shall be chosen by the person(s) responsible for the removal and the
               countymetro township.
          c.   The person(s) responsible for the removal shall pay the cost of the appraisal.



                                                                                                Page 197
     2.    If a significant tree(s) is removed contrary to this section, all development and
          countymetro township permitting and processing of the land use application shall be put
          on hold for up to sixty days from the date of countymetro township's discovery of removal.
          During that time, the countymetro township will inventory the significant tree(s) that were
          removed, and the process of valuing the tree(s) that were removed shall commence,
          pursuant to paragraph 1 above.
     3.   The person(s) responsible for removing the significant tree(s) shall pay for the cost of
          site restoration, including the removal of the stump(s). The stump(s) may not be removed
          until an appraisal is completed pursuant to paragraph 1. above.
     4.    The person(s) responsible for removing the significant tree(s) shall also replace the
          tree(s) in accordance with the provisions in this section. The bond referenced in
          subsection (D)(1)(b) of this section shall be a surety bond for those that unlawfully
          remove trees.
In addition to the civil penalties provided in paragraphs 1—4 of this subsection (G), the person(s)
responsible for removing the significant tree(s) may also be subject to criminal prosecution as a
Class B misdemeanor for each significant tree unlawfully removed.



19.72.120 - Natural hazards.

     A natural hazards report, together with geotechnical, slope, soils, and grading reports, may
be required as provided in 19.75,030 "Geological Hazards" and Chapter 19.74 "Floodplain
Hazards." The countymetro township shall review all natural hazards reports and
recommendations in the report and may require, consistent with the above ordinances, that
preliminary conditions be satisfied prior to final approval of the site plan.



19.72.130 - Stream corridor and wetlands protection.                                                    Commented [CW41]: The appropriate setback from
                                                                                                        streams to prevent contamination and stream degradation
A.   Purpose. The following requirements and standards are intended to promote, preserve, and           was a very much debated topic when FCOZ was revised in
     enhance the important hydrologic, biological, ecological, aesthetic, recreational, and             2016-2017. Early drafts proposed just setting the setback at
     educational functions of stream corridors, associated riparian areas, and wetlands.                50’ rather than having a 100’ setback with exceptions
                                                                                                        available (which would have matched the Health Code and
B.    Applicability. Unless previously delineated by Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township,           the EPA requirements). However, the final approved FCOZ
     boundaries for stream corridors and wetland areas are delineated according to the following        kept stream and wetland setbacks as they had previously
     standards:                                                                                         been.

     1.   Stream corridor and wetland area delineation shall be performed by a qualified engineer
          or other qualified professional with demonstrated experience and expertise to conduct
          the required site analysis. Delineations are subject to the approval of the director.
     2.   Stream corridors shall be delineated at the ordinary high-water mark. Stream corridors
          do not include irrigation ditches that do not contribute to the preservation and
          enhancement of fisheries or wildlife.
     3.    Boundary delineation of wetlands are established using the current Federal Manual for
          Identifying and Delineating Jurisdictional Wetlands jointly published by the U.S.
          Environmental Protection Agency, the Fish and Wildlife Service, the Army Corps of
          Engineers, and the Soil Conservation Service.


                                                                                            Page 198
C.   Prohibited Activities. No development activity may be conducted that disturbs, removes, fills,
     dredges, clears, destroys, or alters, stream corridors or wetlands, including vegetation,
     except for restoration and maintenance activities allowed in this title as approved by Salt
     LakeCopperton CountyMetro township flood control, the state engineer's office, and other
     applicable authorities.
D.   Setbacks.
     1.   Perennial Stream Corridors. All buildings, accessory structures, parking lots, and all on-
          site wastewater disposal systems shall be set back at least one-hundred feet horizontally
          from the ordinary high-water mark of perennial stream corridors. (See Figure 19.72.7:
          Setback from Stream Corridor)

FIGURE 19.72.7: SETBACK FROM STREAM CORRIDOR




     2.   Wetlands. All buildings, accessory structures, and parking lots shall be set back at least
          fifty feet, and all on-site wastewater disposal systems shall be set back at least one
          hundred feet horizontally from the delineated edge of a wetland.
     3.    Ephemeral Streams. Leach fields shall be set back one hundred feet from the channel
          of an ephemeral stream. All buildings, accessory structures, and parking areas or
          parking lots shall be set back at least fifty feet from the channel of an ephemeral stream.
          The zoning administrator may recommend to the land use authority modifications to this
          prohibition upon finding that the modification is likely to cause minimal adverse
          environmental impact or that such impact may be substantially mitigated. For properties
          located within the Salt Lake City watershed, the zoning administrator shall consult with
          Salt Lake City public utilities prior to making a recommendation.
     4.   Natural Open Space/Landscape Credit for Setback Areas. All setback areas are credited
          toward any relevant private natural open space or landscape requirements, but are not
          credited toward trail access dedication requirements.
E.    Preservation of Vegetation. All existing vegetation within the stream corridor or wetland
     setback area shall be preserved to provide adequate screening or to repair damaged riparian
     areas, supplemented where necessary with additional native or adapted planting and
     landscaping.


                                                                                            Page 199
F.    Bridges. Any bridge over a stream corridor and within the stream setback area may be
     approved provided the director affirms that the bridge is planned and constructed in such a
     manner as to minimize impacts on the stream corridor.
G.   Modification of Setbacks.
     1.   The director has discretion to administratively reduce the perennial stream corridor and
          wetlands setbacks by a maximum of twenty-five percent where applicable upon
          satisfaction of the following criteria:
          a.   The modification is designed to yield:
               i.     More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas,
                      rock outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;
               ii.    Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or
               iii.    Better protection of wildlife habitat; or,
          b.   Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.
H.   Perennial Stream Corridor and Wetland Setback Requirements for Lots of Record.
     1.   Existing Legally-Established Structures. A structure legally existing on the effective date
          of this chapter that is within fifty feet of a perennial stream corridor or wetland may be
          renovated, altered, or expanded or reconstructed if damaged or destroyed by fire, flood,
          or act of nature as follows:
          a.    Renovations or alterations or reconstruction of a damaged or destroyed structure
               that will not increase the gross floor area of the original, existing structure are
               permitted.
          b.   Renovations, alterations, or expansions that will increase the gross floor area of the
               original, existing structure are limited to a cumulative total expansion of no more
               than two hundred fifty square feet of gross floor area located closer than fifty feet to
               a perennial stream corridor or wetland.
          c.   Renovations, alterations, expansions, or reconstruction of a damaged or destroyed
               structure that increase the gross floor area of the original, existing structure but
               which are no closer than fifty feet to a perennial stream corridor or wetland are
               permitted, subject to compliance with all other applicable regulations and standards.
     2.    New Structures. For new developments, the director may authorize construction to no
          closer than fifty feet from a perennial stream corridor or to no closer than twenty-five feet
          from a wetland subject to the following criteria:
          a.   Denial of an encroachment of more than the twenty-five percent into the stream or
               wetlands setback area allowed by Section 19.72.130(G) would render the site
               undevelopable.
          b.   No alternative location for the development further away from the stream or wetland
               is feasible or available.
          c.   Creative architectural or environmental solutions have been incorporated into the
               development proposal in order to ensure that the purposes of stream corridor
               protection, as set forth in Subsection 19.72.130 are achieved.
          d.   No federal or state laws, or other countymetro township ordinances or regulations
               are violated.



                                                                                              Page 200
     3.   Limitation. In allowing for the preceding improvements, the director may not:
          a.   Increase the maximum limits of disturbance set forth in Subsection 19.72.160.
          b.   Authorize the encroachment of more than five-hundred square feet of gross floor
               area of structural improvements (cumulative total) within the land area between
               seventy-five feet and fifty feet from perennial stream corridor or within the land area
               between fifty and twenty-five feet of a wetland.
     4.    In the interest of protecting the public health, safety, and welfare, the countymetro
          township may pursue negotiations with a property owner to purchase their property as
          open space as an alternative to granting a waiver. These negotiations, as long as they
          are performed in good faith, shall not delay the countymetro township's processing of
          any land use application.



19.72.140 - Wildlife habitat protection.                                                                 Commented [CW42]: Previous versions of FCOZ went
                                                                                                         into much more detail about wildlife protection, but since
A.    Purpose. Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township finds that its foothills and canyon areas         the actual measurable requirements were already
     provide important wildlife habitat for a wide variety of animal and bird species. In combination    contained elsewhere in the code (such as limits on fencing
     with the tree/vegetation and stream corridor/wetlands protection standards, the following           and stream and wetland setbacks).
     requirements have been developed to promote and preserve valuable wildlife habitats and to
     protect them from adverse effects and potentially irreversible impacts.
B.    Development Limitations in Areas of Critical Habitat. All development subject to these
     provisions shall incorporate the following principles in establishing the limits of disturbance
     and siting buildings, structures, roads, trails, and other similar facilities:
     1.   Facilitate wildlife movement across areas dominated by human activities by:
          a.   Maintaining connections between adjacent natural open space parcels and areas,
               and between natural open space parcels and areas in close proximity.
          b.   Prohibiting fencing types that inhibit the movement of wildlife species.
     2.   Mimic features of the local natural landscape by:
          a.    Minimizing disturbance to trees, the understory, and other structural landscape
               features during construction.
          b.   Providing selective plantings on the property that enhance the habitat value for the
               endemic wildlife population.



19.72.150 - Traffic studies.

A.   Traffic and Parking Impact Study Required. A traffic and parking impact study is required as
     part of the site plan application for the following developments in the foothills and canyons
     overlay zone:
     1.   All residential development that creates a projected increase in traffic volumes equal to
          or greater than ten percent of current road/street capacity as determined by the public
          works engineer.



                                                                                             Page 201
     2.   All non-residential development that creates a projected increase in traffic volumes equal
          to or greater than fifty trip-ends per peak hour.
     3.     All development that affects a roadway identified by the countymetro township
          transportation engineering manager as having an unacceptable level of service (LOS)
          based on AASHTO guidelines and the Highway Capacity Manual.
B.    Required Submittals. A traffic and parking impact study must address, at a minimum, the
     items specified in the "Submittal Requirements for Development Proposals in the Foothills
     and Canyons Overlay Zone," which is incorporated by reference.
C.    Review and Improvements. All development subject to this section must demonstrate that
     the peak hour levels of service on adjacent roadways and at impacted intersections after
     development will comply with current Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township
     transportation and impact mitigation policies and recommendations.
D.    Circulation and Access Plan. All development required by this subsection to submit a traffic
     and parking impact study is also required to provide a circulation and access plan to ensure
     free-flowing access to the site and avoid congestion and unsafe conditions on adjacent public
     roads and streets. The circulation and access plan may be combined with the required traffic
     and parking impact study.



19.72.160 - Limits of disturbance.                                                                     Commented [CW43]: FCOZ limits the amount of ground
                                                                                                       that can be disturbed for all development activities. That
A.    Scope and General Requirements. "Limits of disturbance" must be established on the site          area must be fenced off or demarked prior to construction
     plan, indicating the specific area(s) of a site where construction and development activity       beginning.
     must be contained. (See Figure 19.72.8).
FIGURE 19.72.8: ILLUSTRATION OF LIMITS OF DISTURBANCE




B.    Purpose for Limits of Disturbance. Limits of disturbance are established for the following
     purposes:



                                                                                           Page 202
     1.    Minimizing visual impacts from the development including, but not limited to: screening
          from adjacent and downhill properties, ridgeline area protection, and protection of scenic
          views.
     2.   Erosion prevention and control including, but not limited to, protection of steep slopes
          and natural drainage channels.
     3.   Fire prevention and safety including, but not limited to, location of trees and vegetation
          near structures.
     4.   Preservation of tree cover, vegetation, and the site's natural topography.
     5.    Conservation of water including, but not limited to, preservation of existing native
          vegetation, reduction in amounts of irrigated areas, and similar considerations.
     6.   Wildlife habitat protection including, but not limited to, preservation of critical wildlife
          habitat and migration corridors and routes.
     7.   Stream corridor and wetland protection and buffering.
C.    Limits of Disturbance May Be Noncontiguous. Limits of disturbance necessary to
     accommodate proposed development may be noncontiguous in order to best achieve the
     above purposes.
D.   Maximum Limits of Disturbance.
     1.   For single family residential uses on lots or parcels less than one acre in size, the limits
          of disturbance are limited to twenty thousand square feet.
     2.   For single family residential uses on lots or parcels one acre in size or greater, the limits
          of disturbance are limited to twenty thousand square feet plus an additional square
          footage of twenty percent of the acreage over one acre.
     3.   For all other uses, the maximum limits of disturbance shall be determined by the director
          on a case by case basis in harmony with the purposes of FCOZ stated in 19.72.010 to
          accomplish the purposes set forth in subsection B of this section.
E.   Modification of Limits of Disturbance.
     1.    The director has discretion to administratively increase the limits of disturbance by a
          maximum of twenty-five percent where applicable upon satisfaction of the criteria set
          forth below:
          a.   The modification is designed to yield:
               i.     More effective preservation of existing mature trees, vegetation, riparian areas,
                      rock outcrops, or other significant natural features of the site;
               ii.    Less visual impact on the property or on the surrounding area; or
               iii.    Better protection of wildlife habitat; or,
          b.   Strict application of the standard(s) would render a site undevelopable.



19.72.170 - FCOZ design standards.                                                                        Commented [CW44]: The 2017 FCOZ made an attempt to
                                                                                                          clarify the actual requirements and make them more
A.    Purpose. As stated in 19.72.010, the general purpose of design standards is to promote              enforceable and to reduce the use of phrases like “to the
     development that balances the rights of the landowner with protection of the foothill and            maximum extent feasible”



                                                                                              Page 203
     canyon environment. These standards are intentionally broad to allow flexibility in design,
     compatibility with varying features of the natural landscape, and consistency with the
     following purposes:
     1.    Preserve and enhance the beauty of the landscape by encouraging the retention of
          natural topographic features, such as drainage swales, streams, slopes, ridge lines, rock
          outcroppings, vistas, natural plant formations, trees, and similar features.
     2.   Encourage planning and design of development and building sites that balances safety,
          recreational opportunity, economic development, and enjoyment of property rights, while
          adapting development to, and preserving natural terrain.
     3.   Establish a foundation for development in sensitive lands to insure a more harmonious
          relationship between man-made structures and the natural setting.
     4.   Direct new development in the canyons and foothills toward areas meeting suitability
          criteria, as outlined in the Wasatch Canyons general plan and other applicable general
          or community plans.
B.    Advisory or Mandatory Design Standards. The development and design standards set forth
     in this chapter fall into two categories: "advisory" standards and "mandatory" standards.
     Design standards that are advisory encourage voluntary adaptation. Development within the
     foothills and canyons overlay zone is to comply with all of the mandatory standards unless
     alternative design is approved by the planning commission upon a finding that the alternative
     design is in harmony with the purposes of FCOZ as stated in Section 19.72.010. The design
     standards and categories are summarized below in Table 19.72.1: FCOZ Design Standards.

                SALT LAKECOPPERTON COUNTYMETRO TOWNSHIP, UTAH
                       TABLE 19.72.1: FCOZ DESIGN STANDARDS

                                      DESIGN STANDARDS

Mandatory Advisory          A. Select an appropriate site

                         A site must be suitable for the type of building or use being planned
      X
                         without major alterations to the site.

                         Buildings or uses shall comply with this chapter and all applicable state
                         and federal laws, recognizing the natural or man-made restraints on
      X                  particular sites such as slope, soil instability, landslides, avalanche, or
                         flooding. (See, for example, Section 19.72.120 (Natural Hazards) and
                         Chapter 19.74 (Floodplain Hazard Regulations).)

                      B. Site buildings in a manner that preserves existing land
Mandatory Advisory forms
                   See Figure 19.72.9




                                                                                            Page 204
                      Each building should be located so that it does not dominate the
               X      landscape. The best way to decrease visual impacts is to locate the
                      project as far away from prominent viewing locations as possible.

                      Visually prominent areas of the site shall be left in their natural
                      condition with the exception of areas necessary for access. Structures
    X
                      shall be screened using existing land forms and vegetation. (See
                      Subsection 19.72.110 (Tree and Vegetation Protection).)

                      Where practical, buildings should be placed in the following locations
                      on a site:
                      1. Within tree masses to screen buildings
               X      2. At the edge of trees or land masses overlooking natural open
                      space
                      3. In open areas where they are not visible from roads, trails, or other
                      public lands.

                   FIGURE 19.72.9: PRESERVE EXISTING LAND FORMS




                      C. Site buildings so they do not protrude into significant
Mandatory Advisory viewscapes.
                   See Figure 19.72.10

                      Buildings should be designed to fit their sites and to leave natural
                      massing and features of the landscape intact. Each building should be
               X
                      designed as an integral part of the site rather than an isolated object at
                      odds with its surroundings.




                                                                                        Page 205
                    Where feasible, views should be maintained both to the site and to
                    features beyond, as seen from public rights-of-way, trails, and other
              X     public lands. Projects should not be located on prominent topographic
                    features where they dominate views or unnecessarily obscure the
                    views of others.

                  FIGURE 19.72.10: PRESERVE SIGNIFICANT VIEWS




                     D. Site buildings so their form does not break prominent
Mandatory Advisory skylines
                   See Figure 19.72.11

                    Buildings shall be sited at less visible places and designed so they are
                    not obtrusive, do not loom over the hillside, and do not break
                    prominent skylines from key vantage points. Skylines are ridges or
    X
                    hilltops on the horizon line that do not have backdrops behind them as
                    viewed from key vantage points. Heavily traveled public roads located
                    below skylines or hilltops are key vantage points.




  FIGURE 19.72.11: RIDGELINE DEVELOPMENT




                                                                                     Page 206
                       E. Site buildings to preserve significant trees and vegetation.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.12

                     Buildings shall be sited to keep removal of significant trees and
    X                vegetation to a minimum. (See section 19.72.160 (Limits of
                     disturbance), 19.72.110 (Tree and vegetation protection.)

              FIGURE 19.72.12: PRESERVE SIGNIFICANT VEGETATION




                     F. Cluster buildings and parking, and coordinate neighboring
Mandatory Advisory developments.
                   See Figure 19.72.1

                     Clustering is encouraged to reduce land disturbance and the cost of
              X      providing services, road and parking area maintenance, snow removal,
                     etc. (See Section 19.72.080 (Site Access).)

                     Cooperative, coordinated development and the sharing of services,
              X      infrastructure, facilities, and parking among adjoining landowners is
                     encouraged.

                       G. Locate parking facilities to minimize their visual impact.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.13

    X                When visible from publicly used roads, parking facilities shall be
                     screened to blend into the natural environment. Parking lot design that




                                                                                         Page 207
                     requires backing onto a public street is prohibited. (See Section
                     19.72.080 (Site Access)

                     Parking facilities should be located to the rear or side of main buildings
   X
                     if possible when a site has a lot width of one hundred feet or more.

                     Parking facilities shall be designed consistent with the existing
   X
                     topography.

   X                 Parking facilities shall provide adequate snow storage areas.

                       FIGURE 19.72.13: PARKING LOCATION




Mandatory Advisory      H. Place utility lines underground

                     When possible, utilities shall be placed underground and within
                     existing roadways or in established shoulders to minimize the impact
   X
                     to existing natural features, such as natural vegetative patterns and
                     land forms.

                     Tree cutting for utility corridors shall be minimized to reduce visual
   X                 impacts. All disturbed areas shall be re-vegetated. (See Section
                     19.72.110 (Tree and Vegetation Protection).)

                       I. Design buildings to solidly meet the ground plane.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.14




                                                                                         Page 208
                     Building designs that require a strong structural statement, such as
                     extensive cantilevers or cuts and fills, are prohibited on sensitive
    X
                     hillsides with slopes greater than thirty percent, wetlands, streams, or
                     hillsides with soil instability consistent with this chapter.

                     Buildings shall firmly meet the ground. Placing buildings on piers such
   X                 that exterior walls do not continue down to the ground is prohibited,
                     with the exception of piers that support decks.

           FIGURE 19.72.14: STRUCTURES MEET THE GROUND PLANE




                       J. Design buildings on hillsides to follow the natural terrain.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.15

   X                 Buildings shall be located to minimize earth work and land disturbance.

                     Buildings shall be designed to follow natural contours rather than
   X                 modifying the land to accept a building design not tailored to the site.
                     (See Section 19.72.070 (Grading))




                                                                                       Page 209
    FIGURE 19.72.15

                        K. Design buildings to minimize mass and scale
Mandatory Advisory
                      See Figure 19.72.16

                      Building designs shall incorporate changes in the planes of walls and
   X                  changes in the slope and height of roof lines to add variety, create
                      visual interest, and minimize scale.

                      The massing of buildings shall be scaled to harmonize and achieve
   X
                      balance with the natural features of the specific site.

                      Roof lines and building mass shall echo the angles and shapes
   X
                      repeated in the natural landscape.

                      Building mass and wall lines shall be broken up to complement natural
   X
                      canyon settings and slopes.




                                                                                      Page 210
                        FIGURE 19.72.16: MASS AND SCALE




Mandatory Advisory     L. Select appropriate building materials and colors

                     Predominant tones on exterior walls shall tend toward neutral colors,
                     replicating natural textures—for example, warm earthy hues; dark
                     green of forests; whites, greys, and grey-brown of the mountains; the
   X
                     tan of grasses; and similar colors. Bright, harshly contrasting color
                     combinations are prohibited. Paint finishes shall have low levels of
                     reflectivity.

                     The use of self-weathering metals is encouraged. Chemically treating
             X
                     wood so that it can be allowed to self-weather is also encouraged.

                        M. Use fire-resistant roof surfacing materials that blend with
Mandatory Advisory
                     the colors of the adjacent landscape.

                     The color of roof surfacing materials shall blend with the surrounding
   X
                     landscape such as brown, tan, dark green, grey, etc.

                     Flammable wood roofing shingles are prohibited in the canyons or
   X
                     foothills.

Mandatory Advisory     N. Preserve existing trees and vegetation

                     Significant trees and vegetation shall be preserved as provided in
   X
                     Section 19.72.110.




                                                                                     Page 211
                     When landscaping within the thirty-foot fire-break area, the use of fire-
               X
                     resistant plants is strongly encouraged.

    X                Dryland species of plants shall be selected for slope re-vegetation.

                       O. Landscape in order to retain the original character and
Mandatory Advisory
                     harmony among the various elements of a site.

                     Landscaping shall incorporate natural features such as trees,
    X                significant vegetative patterns, interesting land forms, rocks, water,
                     views, and orientation.

                     Landscaped areas should be an integral part of the development
               X     project, and not simply located in left-over space on the site. New
                     planting should blend in with the existing landscape.

                     All disturbed areas shall be re-vegetated using native or adapted plant
    X
                     species and materials characteristic of the area.

               X     Use of fire-resistant plants is encouraged.

                      P. Limit site grading for buildings to preserve existing land
Mandatory Advisory forms.
                   See Figure 19.72.17

                     Building designs that require extensive cut and fills are prohibited. See
    X
                     Section 19.72.070.

               X     Modification of the natural terrain should be minimized.

                     Slopes steeper than thirty percent shall not be disturbed except as
    X
                     allowed by this chapter.

                     Buildings, driveways, and roads shall follow the natural contours of the
    X                site as feasible, and comply with countymetro township excavation,
                     grading, and erosion control standards.




                                                                                       Page 212
            FIGURE 19.72.17: BUILDINGS DESIGNED TO LIMIT GRADING




Mandatory Advisory  Q. Preserve natural drainage patterns in site design.
Standard Standard See Figure 19.72.18

                    All final excavation, grading, and drainage plans shall conform to
    X               applicable countymetro township excavation, grading, and erosion
                    control standards.

                    Development shall preserve the natural surface drainage pattern
    X               unique to each site. Grading plans shall ensure that drainage flows
                    away from structures, especially structures that are cut into hillsides.

                    Development must prevent negative or adverse drainage impacts on
    X
                    adjacent and surrounding sites.

                    Standard erosion control methods are required during construction to
                    protect water quality, control drainage, and reduce soil erosion.
    X
                    Sediment traps, small dams, or barriers of straw bales are generally
                    required to slow the velocity of runoff.




                                                                                      Page 213
          FIGURE 19.72.18: PRESERVE NATURAL DRAINAGE PATTERNS




Mandatory Advisory      R. Locate buildings outside stream corridor buffer zones

                     Permanent structures shall be located a minimum of one hundred feet
                     horizontally (plan view) from the ordinary high-water mark of stream
                     corridors or other bodies of water. At the discretion of the Director and
   X
                     based on site-specific soils, water, or vegetation studies, setback
                     distances may be reduced as provided in Section 19.72.130 (Stream
                     Corridor and Wetlands Protection).

   X                 Where feasible, developments shall not alter natural waterways.

                       S. Construct bridges for stream crossings.
Mandatory Advisory
                     See Figure 19.72.19

                     Culverts may only be installed on small side drainages, across swales,
                     and on ephemeral or intermittent streams. (See Section 19.72.130,
   X                 (Stream Corridor and Wetlands Protection)). Culverts are prohibited to
                     cross perennial streams; bridges to cross perennial streams are
                     permitted.

                     Bridges and culverts shall be sized to withstand one hundred year
                     storm events. Concrete or stone head walls and side walls are
   X
                     required to maintain the integrity of the bridge structure. (See Chapter
                     19.74 (Floodplain Hazards).




                                                                                       Page 214
        FIGURE 19.72.19: CULVERTS

                      T. Design traffic circulation to respect existing topography,
                   achieve acceptable slopes, and adhere to minimum width and
Mandatory Advisory
                   turning standards.
                   See Figure 19.72.20

                     Vehicular access shall be safe and have adequate width to allow for
    X
                     snowplowing and snow storage.

                     Access roads shall avoid steep grades and sharp turning radii that can
    X
                     make access, especially in the winter, difficult.




    FIGURE 19.72.20: DRIVEWAY DESIGN



                                                                                    Page 215
                       U. Provide safe, adequate off-street parking with year-round
Mandatory Advisory
                     access

                     New development shall comply with off-street parking requirements
    X
                     provided in this chapter.

                     Shared driveways and shared parking areas with adjoining owners are
              X
                     encouraged.

                     Off-street parking areas shall be large enough to avoid vehicles having
    X
                     to back out onto a public street.

                       V. Design new roads and driveways to reduce their visual
Mandatory Advisory
                     impact

                     Roads and driveways should be screened using existing land forms
                     and vegetation. Long tangents, including on side roads intersecting
              X
                     with arterial roads or highways, should be avoided in favor of
                     curvilinear alignments reflecting topography.

                     Cuts and fills shall be re-graded to reflect adjacent land forms and re-
    X
                     vegetated with native plants. See Section 19.72.070.

                      W. Respect existing land forms, contours, and natural
Mandatory Advisory settings in the placement of fences.
                   See Figures 19.72.21 and 19.72.22

                     Fences may be erected to screen service and outdoor areas or provide
    X                a safety barrier. (See Section 19.72.070 (Grading Standards—
                     Retaining Walls))

                     Fencing used to screen patios, other outdoor areas, and service areas
                     may be composed of the following fencing materials:
                        a. Natural or stained wood
                     b. Brick
    X                c. Rock
                     d. Stone
                     e. Pre-cast fences or walls textured and colored to imitate any of the
                     above materials
                     f. Wrought iron




                                                                                      Page 216
           The following fencing materials are prohibited:
           a. Solid board
           b. Concrete or concrete block
           c. Chain link, except around telecommunications facilities, public
           utility compounds, and other related or similar facilities where security
           concerns and terrain make this type of fencing practical, as approved
X          by the Planning Commission for fences around conditional uses and
           approved by the Zoning Administrator for fences around permitted
           uses. Where a chain link fence is used, a powder or dull coating of the
           fence is required.
           d. Plywood
           e. Painted materials
           f. Vinyl, except rail fences for containment of horses

           Rail fences and low rock walls are permitted along arterial roads and
X
           highways, and at other locations to delineate property lines.

           Fences located along property lines and arterial roads or highways are
           limited to a maximum height of forty-two inches, except where
X
           necessary for security, safety, protection of public health, wildlife,
           private property, livestock, etc.

           Solid barrier fences located along arterial roads or highways or placed
    X
           directly on a site's front property line are discouraged.

           Walls and fences are to be reviewed on a site-by-site basis, and
X
           require a building permit.

        FIGURE 19.72.21: OPAQUE FENCE FOR SCREENING




                                                                             Page 217
            FIGURE 19.72.22: FENCES RESPECT EXISTING LAND FORMS




                     X. Select and locate lighting fixtures only where needed to
Mandatory Advisory provide for the safe movement of people on the site.
                   See Figure 19.72.23

                    Light poles for public outdoor recreational facilities are limited to sixty
                    feet in height. Light poles for outdoor recreational facilities on private
    X               residential property are limited to eighteen feet in height. Both require
                    site plan review which may require restrictions on locations and hours
                    of illumination based upon impacts on adjoining properties.

                    With the exception of light poles for outdoor recreational facilities,
    X               lights poles, and building-mounted fixtures shall be designed with fully
                    shielded luminaires directed downward.

                       FIGURE 19.72.23: SHIELDED LIGHTING




                                                                                        Page 218
19.72.180 - Exceptions for minor ski resort improvements.

     Minor ski resort improvements are permitted the following exceptions, subject to approval of
the site plan application for FCOZ:
     A.   Development on slopes greater than thirty percent.
     B.   Development on designated ridge lines or ridgeline protection area.
     C.   No Limitations on terracing.
     D.    Permissions for streets, roads, private access roads, and other vehicular routes to cross
          slopes over fifty percent, including limitations on driveway length.
     E.   Removal of trees and vegetation, therefore no requirements for tree replacement.



19.72.190 - Waivers for mountain resort improvements that are not within a mountain resort
zone, public uses and mineral extraction and processing.                                               Commented [CW45]: Waivers for certain types of land
                                                                                                       uses was built into FCOZ, because based on their very
A.    Authority to Grant Waivers. The topographic conditions, soil characteristics, hydrologic         nature, those uses are highly likely to require waivers from
     patterns, climatic constraints, susceptibility to natural hazards, vegetation, wildlife habitat   slope requirements.
     concerns, and aesthetic considerations of foothill and canyon areas often create
     circumstances in which strict compliance with adopted standards is not only difficult but
     sometimes impossible to achieve. As these challenges are frequently created by the very
     nature and operational characteristics of mountain resorts, mineral extraction and processing
     operations, and many public uses, and are therefore most often self-imposed, other avenues
     of administrative relief are sometimes necessary and appropriate. Accordingly, the land use
     authority may waive or modify the development standards for these uses.
B.   Waiver Request Procedures.




                                                                                           Page 219
     1.   A petition or request for a waiver or modification of an FCOZ development standard may
          be submitted in writing by the owner or authorized agent of the subject property. A
          mountain resort may only submit such a petition or request on property that is not within
          a mountain resort zone, which it owned prior to the effective date of the 2017
          modifications to FCOZ. The petition or request shall be made concurrent with the related
          land use permit application—for example, conditional use application. The petition or
          written request shall clearly explain:
          a.   Those aspects or elements of the development proposal that are strictly prohibited.
          b.    All FCOZ regulations requested to be waived or modified in order for the
               development to reasonably proceed.
          c.   The basis, justification or grounds for granting the waiver or modification.
          d.   Why other common designs or improvements that may be less impactful on the
               environment and adjacent properties are not being considered.
     2.   Each proposed waiver or modification is to be referred for decision to the relevant land
          use authority under the ordinance. The waiver or modification petition is to be
          accompanied by a written staff report with recommendations.
     3.   When a public hearing is required, the notice shall be given fourteen days in advance of
          the hearing and shall specify the waivers or modifications requested, the relevant
          ordinance provisions from which the waivers or modifications are sought, and the general
          nature of the development that is proposed if the requested waivers or modifications are
          granted.
C.    Approval Standards. In deciding whether to grant waivers or modifications to the
     development standards of the foothills and canyons overlay zone, the land use authority shall
     consider the following standards as deemed applicable by the land use authority:
     1.   The proposed waiver and improvements contribute to the overall use, operation, and
          maintenance of the property, and whether reasonable alternative means exist to reduce
          or mitigate adverse impacts.
     2.   Strict compliance with these regulations may result in substantial economic hardship or
          practical difficulties for the owner of the property.
     3.   Strict or literal interpretation and enforcement of the specified regulation may result in a
          development approach inconsistent with the intent and objectives of this chapter.
     4.   The waivers or modifications may result in a development proposal that better preserves
          area views, reduces adverse impacts on existing trees and vegetation, reduces the
          overall degree of disturbance to steep slopes, protects wildlife habitat, or reflects a
          greater degree of sensitivity to stream corridors, wetlands, rock outcrops, and other
          sensitive environmental features in the vicinity of the proposed improvements.
     5.   The granting of the waiver or modification may have neutral or beneficial impact to the
          public health, safety, or welfare, or to properties or improvements in the vicinity.
     6.   The proposed development, as modified by the request, is consistent with the goals,
          objectives, and policies of the adopted community general plan applicable
     7.   Creative architectural or environmental solutions may be applied to alternatively achieve
          the purposes of this chapter.




                                                                                              Page 220
      8.   The development in all other respects conforms to the site design, development, and
           environmental standards set forth in the foothills and canyons overlay zone and in all
           other applicable ordinances and codes.
      9.   The waivers or modifications requested do not violate other applicable federal, state,
           and local laws.
D.     Waivers. Slope waivers are not required for facilities or uses with slopes of thirty percent or
      less. Slope waivers are required for eligible development activities associated with such land
      uses according to Table 19.16.2.

                      TABLE 19.16.2: PERMISSIBLE SLOPE RANGES FOR
                           ELIGIBLE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES

                                     Authority to Grant Waivers

           Slope Range                             Eligible Development Activities

       Thirty percent or less                         • No slope waiver required

Greater than thirty percent up
                                      • All development activities associated with allowed uses
      to forty percent

                                                             • Pedestrian trails
                                                      • Non-motorized vehicle trails
 Greater than forty percent up          • Motorized vehicle roads and trails for emergency or
        to fifty percent                                   maintenance purposes
                                     • Ski runs, ski lifts and supporting appurtenances and other
                                                  mountain resort accessory activities

                                                             • Pedestrian trails
                                                      • Non-motorized vehicle trails
     Greater than fifty percent
                                     • Ski runs, ski lifts and supporting appurtenances and other
                                                  mountain resort accessory activities




E.    Action on Waiver Requests.
      1.   The waiver or modification request may be approved as proposed, denied, or approved
           with conditions.
      2.   The decision on the request shall include the reasons for approval or denial.
      3.    In granting a waiver from or modification of development standards, conditions may be
           imposed to mitigate the impacts of the proposed development on adjacent properties
           and the area. These may include, for example, measures to:



                                                                                             Page 221
         a.   protect scenic vistas, especially views from public rights-of-way and public lands,
         b.   protect natural settings in the vicinity of site improvements, and
         c.   enhance the relationship to and compatibility with other structures and open spaces
              in the vicinity of the proposed improvements.
    4.    All development shall comply with approved plans. Any proposed revisions or changes
         to plans requires a resubmittal and request for final action.



19.72.200 - Definitions.

    For the purposes of this Chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
     "Alteration." Any change or rearrangement in the supporting members of an existing
structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, girders, or interior partitions, or any change in
the dimensions or configurations of the roof or exterior walls.
     "Building site." A space of ground occupied or to be occupied by a building or group of
buildings.
    "Caliper." A standard for trunk measurement of nursery stock, determined by measuring the
diameter of the trunk six inches above the ground for up to and including five-inch caliper size,
and twelve inches above the ground for larger trees.
     "Clustering." A development or subdivision design technique that concentrates buildings or
lots on a part of the site to allow the remaining land to be used for recreation, common open
space, and/or preservation of environmentally sensitive areas.
     "Driveway." A private area used for ingress and egress of vehicles, which allows access from
a street or road to a building, structure, or parking spaces.
     "Engineering geologist." A geologist who, through education, training and experience, is able
to conduct field investigations and interpret geologic conditions to assure that geologic factors
affecting engineered works are recognized, adequately interpreted, and presented for use in
engineering practice and for the protection of the public.
     "Expansion." An increase in the size of an existing structure or use, including physical size of
the property, building, parking, and other improvements.
     "Fence." A structure erected to provide privacy or security, which defines a private space or
is used to constrain domestic animals.
    "Geotechnical engineer." A professional engineer licensed in the state of Utah, whose
education, training, and experience is in the field of geotechnical engineering.
    "Grading." Any change of existing surface conditions by excavating, placing of any soils or
rocks, or stripping of vegetation.
     "Landscape architect." A person who is licensed to practice landscape architecture by the
state of Utah.
    "Limits of disturbance." The area(s) in which construction and development activity are to be
contained, including development and construction of the principal building, accessory structures,
recreation areas, utilities, services, driveways, septic tank drain fields and related system



                                                                                            Page 222
requirements, storm drainage, and other similar services or improvements. The following need
not be included in limits of disturbance:
    A.    Up to ten feet of paved or unpaved shoulders for driveways.
    B.    Areas consisting of natural ponds, streams, trees, and other vegetation where no
         grading work is done.
     "Lot of Record." A lot or parcel of land established in compliance with all laws applicable at
the time of its creation and recorded in the office of the county recorder either as part of a recorded
subdivision or as described on a deed, having frontage upon a street, a right-of-way approved by
the Land use hearing officer, or a right-of-way not less than twenty feet wide.
      "Minor ski resort improvements." Construction activities associated with the ongoing
operation and maintenance of previously approved facilities, ski runs, ski trails, ski lifts and related
resort appurtenances, equipment, recreational access corridors, pedestrian or non-motorized
trails, non-snow related activities and accessory uses, or vehicular maintenance roads
constructed or used in connection with the construction, operation, or maintenance of a resort.
    "Mountain resort or Ski resort."
    A.    Any publicly or privately developed recreational use permitted by relevant local, state,
         and federal authorities, for snow-related activities, accessory year-round or non-snow
         related activities, and associated facilities and improvements.
    B.    Such uses, activities, and facilities may be conducted on a commercial or membership
         basis, whether solely on privately-owned property or on privately-owned lots or parcels
         interspersed with public land under a special use permit from the U.S. Forest Service or
         other public agency, primarily for the use of persons who do not reside on the same lot
         or parcel as that on which the recreational use is located.
         1.   Snow related activities include but are not limited to: downhill skiing, cross-country
              skiing, snowboarding, snow shoeing, snowmobiling, or other snow related activities.
         2.   Accessory year-round and non-snow related activities include but are not limited to:
              alpine recreational activities; cultural events and festivals; and conference events.
         3.   Associated facilities and improvements include, but are not limited to: lodging; food,
              retail, and support services; recreational and fitness facilities; parking
              accommodations; and other uses of a similar nature specifically authorized in
              conjunction with the operation of a year-round resort.
     "Natural open space." Land in a predominantly open and undeveloped condition that is
suitable for any of the following: natural areas; wildlife and native plant habitat; important wetlands
or watershed lands; stream corridors; passive, low-impact activities; little or no land disturbance;
or trails for non-motorized activities.
    "Net developable acreage" is defined as land with all of the following:
    a.   An average slope less than thirty percent.
    b.   Soils of a suitable depth and type based on soil exploration and percolation tests in
         accordance with the regulations of the Utah Department of Environmental Quality in
         order to ensure against adverse impacts on surface and groundwater quality.
    c.   Minimum distance from any stream corridor as defined in this Chapter.




                                                                                              Page 223
    d.   Free from any identified natural hazards such as flood, avalanche, landslide, high water
         table and similar features. (See Chapter 19.74 (Floodplain Hazard Regulations) and
         Section 19.72.120 (Natural Hazards).
     "Open Space." Any area of a lot that is completely free and unobstructed from any man-made
structure or parking areas.
    "Ordinary high water mark."
    A.    The line on the bank to which the high water of a stream ordinarily rises annually in
         seasons, as indicated by changes in the characteristics of soil, vegetation, or other
         appropriate means, taking into consideration the characteristics of the surrounding
         areas.
    B.   Where the ordinary high water mark cannot be found, the top of the channel bank shall
         be substituted.
    C.    In braided channels, the ordinary high water mark shall be measured to include the
         entire stream feature.
    "Overlay zone." A zoning district that encompasses one or more underlying zones and that
imposes additional or alternative requirements to that required by the underlying zone.
    "Qualified professional." A professionally trained person with the requisite academic degree,
experience, and professional certification or license in the field(s) relating to the subject matter
being studied or analyzed.
    "Retaining wall." A wall designed and constructed to resist the lateral displacement and
erosion of soils or other materials.
      "Ridgeline protection area." An area consisting of a prominent ridgeline that is highly visible
from public right-of-ways or trails, and that includes the crest of any such designated prominent
hill or slope, plus the land located within one hundred feet horizontally (map distance) on either
side of the crest.
     "Significant trees." Live trees of six-inch caliper or greater, groves of five or more smaller live
trees, or clumps of live oak or maple covering an area of fifty square feet to the drip line perimeter.
     "Site plan." An accurately scaled plan that illustrates the existing conditions on a land parcel
and the details of a proposed development, including but not limited to: topography; vegetation;
drainage; flood plains; wetlands; waterways; landscaping and open space; walkways; means of
ingress and egress; circulation; utility easements and services; structures and buildings; lighting;
berms, buffers and screening devices; development on adjacent property; and any other
information that may be required to make an informed decision.
     "Slope." The level of inclination from the horizontal, determined by dividing, in fifty foot
intervals, the average horizontal run of the slope into the average vertical rise of the same slope
and converting the resulting figure into a percentage value.
     "Stream, Ephemeral." Those channels, swales, gullies, or low areas that do not have flow
year-round or are not shown on United States Geological Services (U.S.G.S.) topographic maps
as perennial streams. These are generally channels that are tributary to perennial streams, other
ephemeral streams, terminal low areas, ponds, or lakes. They are typically dry except during
periods of snowmelt runoff or intense rainfall. (Contrast with "Stream, Perennial.")
    "Stream, Perennial." Those streams, excluding ephemeral streams, or ditches and canals
constructed for irrigation and drainage purposes, which flow year-round during years of normal



                                                                                              Page 224
rainfall, and that are identified on the appropriate United States Geological Services (U.S.G.S.)
topographic maps as perennial streams. (Contrast with "Stream, Ephemeral.")
     "Stream corridor." The corridor defined by a perennial stream's ordinary high water mark.
     "Substantial economic hardship." A denial of all reasonable economic use of a property.
     "Trails." A type of natural open space that is a system of public recreational pathways located
within the unincorporated countymetro township for use by the public for walking, biking, and/or
horseback riding as designated.
    "Undevelopable" means strict application of this title prevents the minimum development
necessary to establish a permitted or conditional use in the underlying zone on the property.
    "Vegetation." Living plant material, including but not limited to trees, shrubs, flowers, grass,
herbs, and ground cover.
    "Waiver." Permission to depart from the requirements of an Ordinance with respect to the
application of a specific regulation.



Chapter 19.74 - FLOODPLAIN HAZARD REGULATIONS                                                          Commented [CW46]: Largely dictated by FEMA
                                                                                                       regulations, but have not been updated for quite some time
                                                                                                       and may need to be reconsidered in the near future. For
                                                                                                       Copperton’s purposes, it may be best to just refer to County
19.74.010 - Findings.                                                                                  Code for Floodplain issues until such time as they can be
                                                                                                       revised.
A.    Flood hazard areas of Salt Lake Countymetro township are subject to periodic inundation
     which results in loss of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce
     and governmental services, extraordinary public expenditures for flood protection and relief,
     and impairment of the tax base, all of which adversely affect the public health, safety and
     general welfare.
B.    The inundation is caused by the cumulative effect of channel obstructions which increase
     flood heights and velocities. Uses that are inadequately floodproofed, elevated or otherwise
     protected from floodwater also contribute to flood loss.



19.74.020 - Purpose of provisions.

    It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and general welfare, and
to minimize public and private losses due to flood conditions by provisions designed to:
     A.   Protect human life and health;
     B.   Minimize expenditure of public money for flood-control projects;
     C.    Minimize the need for rescue and relief efforts associated with flooding and generally
          undertaken at the expense of the general public;
     D.   Minimize prolonged business interruptions;




                                                                                           Page 225
     E.    Minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric,
          telephone and sewer lines, and streets and bridges located in areas of special flood
          hazard;
     F.    Help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of
          areas of special flood hazard so as to minimize future flood-blight areas;
     G.    Ensure that potential buyers are notified that property is in an area of special flood
          hazard; and
     H.    Ensure that those who occupy the areas of special flood hazards assume responsibility
          for their actions.



19.74.030 - Methods of reducing flood losses.

     In order to accomplish its purposes, this chapter includes methods and provisions for:
     A.    Restricting or prohibiting uses which are dangerous to health, safety and property due
          to water or erosion hazards, or which result in damaging increases of erosion, flood
          heights or velocities;
     B.    Requiring that uses vulnerable to floods, including facilities which serve such uses, be
          protected against flood damage at the time of initial construction;
     C.    Controlling the alteration of natural floodplains, stream channels and natural protective
          barriers, which help accommodate or channel floodwaters;
     D.    Controlling filling, grading, dredging and other development which may increase flood
          damage; and
     E.    Preventing or regulating the construction of flood barriers which will divert floodwaters
          or which may increase flood hazards in other areas.



19.74.040 - Areas of special flood hazard.

A.    This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of
     unincorporated Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township. The areas of special flood
     hazard identified by the Federal Emergency Management Agency in a scientific and
     engineering report entitled "Flood Insurance Study, Salt Lake County, Utah, Unincorporated
     Areas," December 18, 1985, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps, Flood
     Boundary-Floodway Maps, and any revisions thereto, are adopted by reference and declared
     to be a part of this chapter. The Flood Insurance Study is on file at the Salt Lake County
     Planning and Development Services Division, 2001 South State Street, Salt Lake City, Utah
     84190-4090.
B.    The director of development services shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize any base
     flood elevation and floodway data available from a federal, state or other source, as criteria
     for requiring that new construction, substantial improvements, or other development in zone
     A meet the provisions of Sections 19.74.050, 19.74.150, 19.74.160, 19.74.170 and
     19.74.180. Such other source base flood elevation data shall be more specifically provided



                                                                                           Page 226
     by the developer as determined by a registered professional engineer for subdivision and
     other proposed developments which contain at least fifty lots or five acres (whichever is less).



19.74.050 - Floodways.

     Located within areas of special flood hazard established in Section 19.74.040 are areas
designated as "floodways." Since the floodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the velocity
of floodwaters which carry debris, potential projectiles, and erosion potential, the following
provisions apply:
     A.    Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial improvements, placement
          of manufactured homes, and other developments, are prohibited unless certification by
          a registered professional engineer is provided demonstrating that encroachments shall
          not result in any increase in flood levels during the occurrence of the base flood
          discharge.
     B.     If subsection A of this section is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
          improvements and placement of manufactured homes shall comply with all applicable
          flood-hazard reduction provisions of Sections 19.74.100 through 19.74.180.



19.74.060 - Relationship of floodplain hazard regulations to zones.

     The floodplain hazard regulations of this chapter shall be supplemental to, and not in lieu of,
the applicable zoning provisions of the zone in which the land is located, and/or general provisions
under Title 19 of this code, as amended. Property located within such areas of special flood
hazard shall be developed only in conformance with the provisions set forth herein. In cases of
conflict between such zone classifications and the floodplain hazard regulations, the most
restrictive provisions shall govern. Permitted and conditional uses permitted in the areas of special
flood hazard shall be developed only in conformance with the provisions set forth herein. All uses
involving development, as defined in this chapter, shall further meet the supplemental conditions
and standards set forth in this chapter.



19.74.070 - Conditional use permits required when.

    A conditional use permit, if required by this title, shall be obtained prior to special flood hazard
area approval under Section 19.74.080. Prior to issuance of a conditional use permit, the planning
commission shall insure that requirements of this chapter are met.



19.74.080 - Construction or development—Special approval required.

A.    Approval by the development services division shall be obtained before construction or
     development begins within an area of special flood hazard established in Section 19.74.040.
     Application for such approval shall be made on forms furnished by the development services


                                                                                              Page 227
     division, and may include, but not be limited to: Plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing
     the nature, location, dimensions and elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed
     structures, fill, storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
B.   Specifically, the following information is required:
     1.    Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor, including basement, of all
          structures except those located in zone A where base flood elevation data was not
          available nor required by this chapter;
     2.    Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has been floodproofed
          except those located in zone A where base flood elevation data was not available nor
          required by this chapter;
     3.    Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect that the floodproofing
          methods for any nonresidential structure meet the floodproofing criteria in Sections
          19.74.150 through 19.74.180; and
     4.   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered or relocated as a result
          of proposed development.



19.74.090 - Construction or development—Duties of director of development services division.

     The director of development services division shall be responsible to:
     A.   Review Applications.
          1.    Review all applications to determine if the proposed development is located in the
               floodway. If located in the floodway, assure that the encroachment provisions of
               Section 19.74.050 are met,
          2.   Review all applications to determine that the requirements of this chapter have been
               satisfied,
          3.   Review all applications to determine that all necessary permits have been obtained
               from federal, state or local governmental agencies from which prior approval is
               required;
     B.   Maintain Information File.
          1.    Obtain and record the actual elevation provided by the developer (in relation to
               mean sea level) of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or substantially
               improved structures except those located in zone A where base flood elevation data
               was not available nor required by this chapter,
          2.    For all new or substantially improved floodproofed structures except those located
               in zone A where base flood elevation data was not available nor required by this
               chapter:
               a.   Verify and record the actual elevation provided by the developer (in relation to
                    mean sea level), and
               b.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in subsection B3 of Section
                    19.74.080,
          3.   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the provisions of this chapter;


                                                                                              Page 228
     C.   Verify Alteration of Watercourses. Verify that:
          1.   A permit has been obtained from the division of flood control and water quality for
               any alteration of a watercourse identified as a flood-control facility in Section
               17.08.040 of this code,
          2.   A permit has been obtained from the State Engineer for alteration of a natural stream
               channel,
          3.    Maintenance is provided for within the altered or relocated portion of such
               watercourse so the flood-carrying capacity is not diminished,
          4.    Notification has been made to cities adjacent to the watercourse and to the State
               Division of Comprehensive Emergency Management, prior to any alteration or
               relocation of a watercourse, and evidence of such notification has been submitted
               to the Federal Emergency Management Agency.



19.74.100 - Protective standards generally.

    In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards, set out in Sections 19.74.110
through 19.74.140, are required.



19.74.110 - Anchoring.

A.    All new construction and substantial improvements shall be anchored to prevent flotation,
     collapse or lateral movement of the structure.
B.   All manufactured homes shall be installed using methods and practices which minimize flood
     damage. For the purpose of this requirement, manufactured homes must be elevated and
     anchored to resist flotation, collapse or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include,
     but are not limited to, over-the-top and frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in
     addition to applicable anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.



19.74.120 - Construction materials and methods.

A.    All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed with materials and
     utility equipment resistant to flood damage. Electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing and air-
     conditioning equipment and other service facilities shall be designed and/or located so as to
     prevent water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of
     flooding.
B.    All new construction and substantial improvements shall be constructed using methods and
     practices that minimize flood damage. Fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that are
     subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic flood forces on
     exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of floodwaters. Designs for meeting this
     requirement must either be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect or must
     meet or exceed the following minimum criteria: A minimum of two openings having a total net


                                                                                            Page 229
     area of not less than one square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to
     flooding shall be provided. The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above
     grade. Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings or devices
     provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of floodwaters.



19.74.130 - Utilities.

A.    All new and replacement water-supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
     infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
B.    New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
     infiltration of floodwaters into the systems, and discharge from the systems into floodwaters;
     and
C.    On-site waste-disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or
     contamination from them during the flooding.



19.74.140 - Subdivision proposals.

A.   All subdivision proposals shall minimize flood damage;
B.    All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas,
     electrical and water systems, located and constructed to minimize flood damage;
C.   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to flood
     damage.



19.74.150 - Specific protective standards.

     In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data has been provided as
set forth in Section 19.74.040, the following provisions set out in Sections 19.74.160 through
19.74.180 are required.



19.74.160 - Residential construction.

    New construction and substantial improvement of any residential structure shall have the
lowest floor, including basement, elevated to a minimum of one foot above the base flood
elevation.



19.74.170 - Nonresidential construction.




                                                                                          Page 230
      New construction and substantial improvement of any commercial, industrial or other
nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to a
minimum of one foot above the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
    A.    Be floodproofed so that below one foot above the base flood level the structure is
         watertight, with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
    B.    Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads
         and affects of buoyancy; and
    C.    Provide that where a nonresidential structure is intended to be made watertight below
         the base flood level:
         1.   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural
              design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the
              design and methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of
              practice for meeting the applicable provisions of this section, and
         2.   A record of such certificates which includes the specific elevation (in relation to
              mean sea level) to which such structures are floodproofed shall be provided to the
              director of development services as set forth in Section 19.74.090(B)(2).



19.74.180 - Manufactured homes.

     All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved shall be elevated on a
permanent foundation such that the lowest floor of the manufactured home is a minimum of one
foot above the base flood elevation and is securely anchored to an adequately anchored
foundation system in accordance with Section 19.74.110.



19.74.190 - Variances and appeal procedures.

     The land use hearing officer, as designated by the zoning ordinance of the countymetro
township, shall hear and decide all appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of
this chapter, as provided in Chapter 19.92 of this title, as amended. The following conditions shall
apply, in addition to the provisions of Chapter 19.92:
    A.    Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements
         to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by
         lots with existing structures constructed below one foot above the base level, providing
         the land use hearing officer has considered all technical evaluations, all relevant factors,
         and standards specified in other sections of this chapter, providing the following items
         have been considered:
         1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other land to the injury of others;
         2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
         3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to flood damage, and the
              effect of such damage on the individual owner;



                                                                                            Page 231
         4.    The importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to the community;
         5.    The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
         6.     The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use, which are not subject
               to flooding or erosion damage;
         7.     The compatibility of the proposed use with the existing and anticipated
               development;
         8.    The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and floodplain
               management program for that area;
         9.    The safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary and emergency
               vehicles;
         10.     The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise, and sediment transport of the
               floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;
         11.     The costs of providing governmental services during and after flood conditions,
               including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas,
               electrical and water systems, and streets and bridges.
    B.    Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or restoration of structures
         listed on the National Register of Historic Places or the State Inventory of Historic Places,
         without regard to the procedures set forth in the remainder of this section.
    C.    Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any increase in flood
         levels during the base flood discharge would result.
    D.    Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum
         necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford relief.
    E.   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         1.    A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         2.    A determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional and
               undue hardship to the applicant; and
         3.    A determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased flood
               heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create
               nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public, as identified in subsection
               Al of this section, or conflict with existing local laws or ordinances.
    F.    Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written notice that the
         structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor elevation below one foot above
         the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance will be commensurate with
         the increased flood risk resulting from the reduced lowest floor elevation.
    G.    The land use hearing officer shall maintain the record of all appeal actions and report
         any variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.



19.74.200 - Warning and liability disclaimer.

    The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered reasonable for
regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering considerations. Larger floods can


                                                                                             Page 232
and will occur on rare occasions. Flood heights may be increased by manmade or natural causes.
This chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter shall not create liability
on the part of the countymetro township, any officer or employee thereof, or the Federal
Emergency Management Agency, for any flood damages that result from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.



19.74.210 - Definitions.

    As used in this chapter:
     "Lowest floor" means the lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including basement). An
unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking of vehicles, building access or
storage, in an area other than a basement area, is not considered a building's lowest floor,
provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the applicable
nonelevation design requirements of this title.
    "Manufactured home" means a structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built
on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities. For floodplain management purposes, the term "manufactured
home" also includes park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles placed on a site for
greater than one hundred eighty consecutive days. For insurance purposes the term
"manufactured home" does not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other similar vehicles.
     "Manufactured home park or subdivision" means a parcel (or contiguous parcels) of land
divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.


Chapter 19.75 - GEOLOGICAL HAZARDS ORDINANCE* (Formerly "Natural Hazard                                  Commented [CW47]: This section deals with faults,
Areas")                                                                                                  avalanche, rockfall, liquefaction. Like the Floodplain
                                                                                                         regulations, it is due for updating, and may be best for
                                                                                                         Copperton to allow County Code to stand until such time as
                                                                                                         it can be revised. Salt Lake County no longer has a geologist
                                                                                                         on staff, which has added to the delay in getting this code
19.75.010 - Purpose of provisions.                                                                       updated.

    The purpose of the geologic hazards ordinance is to promote the health, safety and general
welfare of the citizens of the CountyMetro township, and minimize the potential adverse effects
of geologic hazards to public health, safety and property by encouraging wise land use in
geologically hazardous areas.



19.75.020 - Definitions.

    As used in this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:
    "Active fault" means a fault displaying evidence of greater than four inches of displacement
along one or more of its traces during Holocene time (about 10,000 years ago to the present).




                                                                                             Page 233
     "Avalanche" means a large mass of snow, ice, and debris in swift motion down a slope;
includes both wet and dry snow avalanches.
     "Buildable area" means that portion of a site where an approved engineering geology and/or
geotechnical report, as required, has indicated is not impacted by geologic hazards, or concluded
that the identified hazards can be mitigated to a level where risk to human life and property are
reduced to an acceptable and reasonable level, and where structures may be safely sited.
Buildable areas must be clearly marked on the site plan and/or final approved plat, as appropriate.
    "Critical facilities" means essential facilities, and lifelines such as major utility, transportation,
and communication facilities and their connections to essential facilities.
     "Debris flow" means a slurry of rock, soil, organic material, and water transported in an
extremely fast and destructive flow that flows down channels and onto and across alluvial fans;
includes a continuum of sedimentation events and processes including debris, flows, debris
floods, mudflows, clearwater floods, and alluvial fan flooding.
      "Development" includes all critical and essential facilities, subdivisions, single- and multi-
family dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings, additions to existing buildings, storage
facilities, pipelines and utility conveyances, and other land uses.
     "Engineering geologist" means a geologist who, through education, training and experience,
is able to conduct field investigations and interpret geologic conditions to assure that geologic
factors affecting engineered works are recognized, adequately interpreted, and presented for use
in engineering practice and for the protection of the public.
     "Engineering geology" means the application of geological data, principles and interpretation
so that geological factors affecting planning, design, construction, and maintenance of engineered
works are properly recognized and adequately interpreted.
     "Essential facility" means buildings and other structures that are intended to remain
operational in the event of extreme environmental loading from snow or earthquakes, including
all Category II and III structures as classified in Table 1604.5 of the Building Code.
     "Fault" means a fracture in the earth's crust forming a boundary between rock or soil masses
that have moved relative to each other (see "Active fault").
     "Fault setback" means an area on either side of a fault within which construction of structures
for human occupancy or critical facilities is not permitted.
    "Fault scarp" means a steep slope or cliff formed by movement along a fault.
     "Fault trace" means the intersection of a fault plane with the ground surface, often present as
a fault scarp, or detected as a lineament on aerial photographs.
    "Fault zone" means a corridor of variable width along one or more fault traces, within which
deformation has occurred.
    "Geologic hazard" means a surface fault rupture, liquefaction, landslide, debris flow, rockfall,
avalanche, and/or other geologic processes that may present a risk to life and property.
    "Geologic hazard maps" refers to the following maps showing Geologic Hazards Special
Study Areas in unincorporated Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township:
    A.    "Surface Fault Rupture and Liquefaction Potential Special Study Areas" dated March
         31, 1989 and revised March 1995;
    B.    "Avalanche Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989;



                                                                                                Page 234
    C.    "Landslide, Debris Flow, and Rockfall Special Study Area Map" dated April 9, 2002.
     "Geologic Hazard Special Study Area" means a potentially hazardous area as shown on the
geological hazards maps, or in other areas defined under "Applicability" (Section 19.75.030),
within which hazard investigations are generally required prior to development.
    "Geotechnical Engineer" means a professional engineer licensed in the State of Utah whose
education, training and experience, is in the field of geotechnical engineering.
    "Geotechnical Engineering" means the investigation and engineering evaluation of earth
materials including soil, rock and man-made materials and their interaction with earth retention
systems, foundations, and other civil engineering works. The practice involves the fields of soil
mechanics, rock mechanics, and earth sciences and requires knowledge of engineering laws,
formulas, construction techniques, and performance evaluation of engineering.
     "Governing body" means the CountyMetro township Council, or to a future successor body
to the CountyMetro township Council.
    "Landslide" means a general term for the downslope movement of a mass of soil, surficial
deposits or bedrock, including a continuum of processes between landslides, earthflows,
mudflows, debris flows and debris avalanches, and rockfall.
    "Liquefaction" means a process by which certain water-saturated soils lose bearing strength
because of earthquake-related ground shaking and subsequent increase of groundwater pore
pressure.
    "Non-Buildable Area" means that portion of a site which an engineering geology report has
concluded may be impacted by geologic hazards that cannot be feasibly mitigated to a safe level,
and where siting of structures is not permitted.
    "Rockfall" means a rock, or mass of rock, newly detached from a cliff or other steep slope
which moves downslope by falling, rolling, toppling, or bouncing; includes rockslides, rockfall
avalanches, and talus.
     "Setback" means an area within which construction of habitable structures or critical facilities
is not permitted.
     "Slope Stability" means the resistance of a natural or artificial slope or other inclined surface
to failure by landsliding; usually assessed under both static and dynamic (earthquake induced)
conditions.
    "Structure designed for human occupancy" means any residential dwelling or other structure
used or intended for supporting or sheltering any human occupancy.



19.75.030 - Applicability.

    These regulations are applicable to:
    A.    All lands within Geological Hazard Special Study Areas in unincorporated Salt Lake
         CountyCopperton Metro Township, as shown on the following geologic hazards maps
         on file with the County Planning and Development Services Division:
         1.   "Surface Fault Rupture and Liquefaction Potential Special Study Areas" dated
              March 31, 1989 and revised March 1995;
         2.   "Avalanche Special Study Areas" dated March 31, 1989; and


                                                                                             Page 235
         3.   "Landslide, Debris Flow, and Rockfall Special Study Areas" dated April 9, 2002.
    B.    Because not all geologic hazards are identified on the above maps due to their scale,
         this ordinance also applies to areas within the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone, as
         indicated by a map of that title adopted on January 21, 1998, Chapter 19.72 of the Salt
         LakeCopperton CountyMetro township Zoning Ordinance, as amended; and
    C.   Areas where slopes are in excess of thirty percent; and
    D.    Areas where topography, geology, soil conditions, slope instability, slope angle or
         aspect, whether on-site or off-site, indicate a potential for geologic hazards.
    Such maps and areas described above and all amendments thereto are made a part of this
chapter as if fully described and detailed herein. Each change in the geologic hazards maps shall
be subject to the amendment procedures set forth in Chapter 19.90.



19.75.040 - Disputes.

    Disputes may arise when:
    a.    there is a conflict between the boundary lines illustrated on the map and actual field
         conditions,
    b.   detailed investigations show that mapped hazards are not present within a particular
         area, or
    c.   field conditions indicate that unmapped hazards may exist that require study.
    Disputes shall be settled as follows:
    A.    The person disputing the special study area boundary or the presence of mapped or
         unmapped hazard(s) within a particular area shall submit technical and geologic
         evidence to support their claim to the CountyMetro township Geologist in the form of a
         site-specific geologic hazards report (see Section 19.75.060).
    B.    The CountyMetro township Geologist may request the Utah Geological Survey, U.S.
         Forest Service, and/or other experts to review the evidence (third-party review) prior to
         making a decision concerning the dispute. The cost of the third-party review shall be paid
         by the person disputing the map.
    C.    The CountyMetro township Geologist may allow deviations from the mapped boundary
         line only if evidence is provided by the applicant that, to the satisfaction of the
         CountyMetro township Geologist, clearly and conclusively establishes that the Geologic
         Hazard Special Study Area boundary location is incorrect, or that the mapped hazards
         are not present within a particular area.
    D.    Any decision of the CountyMetro township Geologist may be appealed to the land use
         hearing officer pursuant to the appeal procedures set forth in Section 19.92.050.



19.75.050 - Studies and reports required.




                                                                                          Page 236
    Any applicant requesting development on a parcel of land within a Geologic Hazard Special
Study Area, as required under Chart 19.75.050, or in other applicable areas as defined in Section
19.75.030, shall submit to the Planning and Development Services Division two copies of a site-
specific geologic hazard study and report.



                                          Chart 19.75.050
                              Special Study Area Report Requirements
                               Based on Special Study Area Maps
         Is a Site-Specific Geologic Hazards Report Required Prior to Approval?

                                             Liquefaction Potential

                                                             LOW
                                  Surface                               Landslide,
                                             HIGH and         and
 Land Use (Type of Facility)       Fault                               Debris Flow & Avalanche
                                            MODERATE         VERY
                                  Rupture                                Rockfall
                                                             LOW

   Critical and Essential
   Facilities as defined in         Yes         Yes           Yes          Yes          Yes
    Section 19.75.020

 Industrial and Commercial
 Bldgs. (1 story and <5,000         Yes          No*          No           Yes          Yes
            sq. ft.)

 Industrial and Commercial
                                    Yes         Yes           No           Yes          Yes
   Bldgs. (>5,000 sq. ft.)

     Residential-Single
                                    Yes          No*          No           Yes          Yes
 Lots/Single Family Homes

Residential Subdivisions (>9
Lots), and Residential Multi-
                                    Yes         Yes           No           Yes          Yes
Family Dwellings (4 or more
       units per acre)

Residential Subdivisions (<9
Lots), and Residential Multi-
                                    Yes          No*          No           Yes          Yes
 Family Dwellings (<4 units
          per acre)




                                                                                        Page 237
* Although a site-specific investigation is not required, the owner is required to file a disclosure
                                notice prior to land-use approval




19.75.060 - Geologic hazard and engineering geology reports.

   This section describes requirements for site-specific geologic hazard studies and reports,
where required according to Section 19.75.050, the Geologic Hazard maps and Chart 19.75.050:
    A.    An engineering geology report that includes a geologic hazards investigation and
         assessment shall be prepared by a qualified engineering geologist, except as provided
         in Sections 19.75.060 (C) and (F), below. A "qualified engineering geologist" requires 1)
         an undergraduate or graduate degree in geology, engineering geology, or a related field
         with a strong emphasis in geologic coursework, from an accredited university; 2) at least
         three full years of experience in a responsible position in the field of engineering geology;
         and 3) per State law, after January 1, 2003, geologists practicing before the public must
         be licensed in Utah. The report shall be site-specific and shall identify all known or
         suspected potential geologic hazards, originating on-site or off-site, whether previously
         mapped or unmapped, that may affect the particular property. All reports shall be signed
         and stamped by the preparer and include the qualifications of the preparer.
    B.    Fault rupture hazard reports shall contain all requirements as described in the document
         "Minimum Standards for Surface Fault Rupture Studies" published by Salt Lake County,
         and incorporated by reference as Appendix A of this ordinance. Fault study reports shall
         be prepared, signed, and stamped by a qualified engineering geologist as described in
         Appendix A.
    C.     Liquefaction analyses shall contain all requirements as stated in the document
         "Liquefaction: A Guide to Land Use Planning" published by Salt Lake County, and
         incorporated by reference as Appendix B to this ordinance. Liquefaction analyses shall
         be prepared by a qualified professional geotechnical engineer licensed in the State of
         Utah, and shall include the professional engineer's original stamp and signature.
    D.    Debris flow hazard studies and reports shall include test pits or trench logs (scaled 1
         inch to 5 feet), include estimates of the number and frequency of past events and their
         thicknesses, volume and maximum clast sizes; and include estimates of the recurrence,
         depth, and impact forces anticipated in future events. While debris flow hazard analyses
         may require contributions from hydrologists and engineers, the debris flow report shall
         be under the control of, and prepared by, a qualified engineering geologist, and shall
         include the geologist's qualifications to perform the study (such as their experience in
         performing similar studies).
    E.    Landslide reports shall be prepared in accordance with the Utah Geological Survey's
         "Guidelines for Evaluating Landslide Hazards in Utah" (Hylland, 1996). Landslide reports
         shall be prepared, signed, and stamped by a qualified engineering geologist, and include
         the qualifications of the preparer. Slope stability or other analyses included in these
         reports shall include both static and dynamic conditions, and shall be prepared by a
         qualified professional geotechnical engineer licensed in the State of Utah, and shall
         include the professional engineer's original stamp and signature.




                                                                                             Page 238
F.    Snow avalanche hazard reports shall be prepared in accordance with the document
     "Snow-Avalanche Hazard Analysis for Land Use Planning and Engineering" (Colorado
     Geological Survey Bulletin 49) or other appropriate references. Avalanche hazard
     reports must be prepared by an experienced avalanche expert, and shall include the
     avalanche expert's qualifications to perform the study (such as their experience in
     performing similar studies).
G.    Other geologic hazard or engineering geology reports shall be prepared in accordance
     with Utah Geological Survey Miscellaneous Publication M, "Guidelines for Preparing
     Engineering Geologic Reports in Utah." All reports shall be signed by the preparer and
     include the qualifications of the preparer. Generally, these reports must be prepared,
     signed, and stamped by a qualified engineering geologist licensed in the State of Utah.
     However, reports co-prepared by a professional engineer must include the professional
     engineer's original stamp and signature.
H.   All reports shall include, at a minimum:
     1.    A 1:24,000-scale geologic map (with reference) showing the surface geology,
          bedrock geology (where exposed), bedding attitudes, faults or other structural
          features, and the locations of any geologic hazards;
     2.   A detailed site map of the subject area showing any site-specific mapping performed
          as part of the geologic investigation, and including boundaries and features related
          to any geologic hazards, topography, and drainage. The site map must show the
          location and boundaries of the hazard(s), delineation of any recommended setback
          distances from hazard(s), and recommended location(s) for structures. Buildable
          and non-buildable areas shall be clearly identified. Scale shall be one inch equals
          two hundred feet or smaller.
     3.    Trench logs and test pit logs (scale: 1 inch equals 5 feet, or smaller), boring logs
          (scale: 1 inch equals 5 feet, or smaller), aerial photographs, references with
          citations, and other supporting information, as applicable
     4.   Conclusions that summarize the characteristics of the geologic hazards, and that
          address the potential effects of the geologic conditions and geologic hazards on the
          proposed development and occupants thereof in terms of risk and potential damage.
     5.    Specific recommendations for additional or more detailed studies, as may be
          required to understand or quantify the hazard, evaluate whether mitigation
          measures are required, and evaluate mitigation options.
     6.   Specific recommendations for avoidance or mitigation of the effects of the hazard(s),
          consistent with the purposes set forth in Section 19.75.010. Design or performance
          criteria for engineered mitigation measures and all supporting calculations,
          analyses, modeling or other methods, and assumptions, shall be included in the
          report. Final design plans and specifications for engineered mitigation must be
          signed and stamped by a qualified professional geotechnical or structural engineer,
          as appropriate.
     7.   Evidence on which recommendations and conclusions are based shall be clearly
          stated in the report.
I.   Additional or more detailed studies may be required, as recommended by the report or
     as determined by the CountyMetro township Geologist, to understand or quantify the
     hazard, or to evaluate whether mitigation measures recommended in the report are
     adequate.


                                                                                      Page 239
19.75.070 - Review of reports—Approval procedure.

A.    In order to fulfill the purposes of this chapter, the Planning and Development Services
     Division or the Planning Commission, as appropriate under the CountyMetro township's
     Development Standards, shall review any proposed land use which requires preparation of
     a geologic hazard report under this chapter to determine the possible risks to the safety of
     persons or property from geologic hazards.
B.    Prior to consideration of any such development by the Planning and Development Services
     Division and the Planning Commission, the geologic hazard report shall be submitted to the
     CountyMetro township Geologist for review and recommendation. The CountyMetro
     township Geologist may request the Utah Geological Survey, the U.S. Forest Service, and/or
     other experts to review the report (third-party review) and provide additional
     recommendations. Any cost the countymetro township must pay for such third-party reviews
     shall be paid by the applicant prior to Planning Commission or Planning and Development
     Services Division action. The CountyMetro township Geologist shall file a copy of the geologic
     hazard report in the CountyMetro township Geologist's Geologic Hazards Library, and
     another copy in the Planning and Development Services project file. A copy may also be
     forwarded to the Utah Geological Survey.
C.    The CountyMetro township Geologist and other retained experts in their review of the report,
     and the Planning Commission or Planning and Development Services Director in their
     consideration of the development, shall determine whether the development complies with
     all of the following standards:
     1.    A suitable geologic hazard report has been prepared by a qualified professional as
          defined in Section 19.75.060.
     2.    The proposed land use does not present an unreasonable risk to the safety of persons
          or property (including buildings, storm drains, public streets, utilities or critical facilities,
          whether off-site or on-site), or to the aesthetics and natural functions of the landscape
          (e.g. slopes, streams or other waterways, drainage, wildlife habitat, etc., whether off-site
          or on-site) because of the presence of geologic hazards or because of modifications to
          the site due to the proposed land use;
     3.    At the Planning Commission's discretion, with advice from the CountyMetro township
          Geologist, the proposed land use may be approved if the applicant submits substantial
          evidence in the geologic hazard report that, using best available practices, the identified
          hazards can be mitigated to a level where the risk of human life and damage to property
          are reduced to an acceptable and reasonable level in a manner which has a minimum
          effect on the natural environment. Mitigation measures should consider, in their design,
          the intended aesthetic functions of other governing ordinances such as the Foothills and
          Canyons Overlay Zone (Ch. 19.72).
D.    Any area determined to contain geologic hazards to life or property shall not be approved
     for development unless the applicant demonstrates that the identified hazards or limitations
     can be overcome in such a manner as to minimize hazard to life or property. The applicant
     must include, with the geologic hazards report, an acceptable mitigation plan that defines
     how the identified hazards or limitations will be overcome in such a manner as to minimize
     hazard to life or property, as described in Section 19.75.070C(1), above, and without
     impacting or affecting off-site areas.



                                                                                                 Page 240
E.    The CountyMetro township Geologist may set other requirements as are necessary to
     overcome any geologic hazards and to ensure that the purposes of this chapter are met.
     These requirements may include, but are not limited to:
     1.   Additional or more detailed studies to understand or quantify the hazard or determine
          whether mitigation measures recommended in the report are adequate;
     2.   Specific mitigation requirements; establishment of buildable and/or non-buildable areas;
          limitations on slope grading; and/or revegetation;
     3.   Installation of monitoring equipment and seasonal monitoring of surface and subsurface
          geologic conditions, including groundwater levels;
     4.   Other requirements such as time schedules for completion of the mitigation, phasing of
          development, etc.
F.    The Planning Commission or Planning and Development Services Director may set
     requirements necessary to reduce the risks from geologic hazards as a condition to the
     approval of any development which requires a geologic hazards report.



19.75.081 - Active fault considerations.

A.    No critical facility (excluding transportation lines or utilities, which by their nature may cross
     active faults) or structures designed for human occupancy shall be built astride an active
     fault. A fault study must be prepared as defined in Sections 19.75.030 and 19.75.060, and
     Appendix A, prior to final approval of the land use or building permits. If a fault is discovered
     in the excavation for such a structure, whether located within a Special Study Area or not, a
     special study, as described in Section 19.75.060 must be performed to determine if the fault
     is active. If the fault is determined to be active, the procedures set forth in Section 19.75.070
     shall be followed. The fault study report shall establish a fault setback on either side of the
     fault following the requirements in Appendix A, within which no critical facilities or structures
     for human occupancy shall be placed.
B.    No structure designed for human occupancy shall be built on a fault scarp. Footing setbacks
     from a fault scarp shall meet the requirements in Appendix A or the requirements of the
     Building Code, whichever is more stringent. The Planning and Development Services
     Director may increase footing setback requirements where information from a geotechnical
     report indicates slope conditions warrant a greater setback distance.



19.75.082 - Liquefaction considerations.

A.    Liquefaction analyses shall be performed for all critical facilities regardless of the mapped
     special study area designation for the site.
B.    For all structures for which a liquefaction analysis indicates that ground settlement may be
     anticipated, the project structural engineer shall provide documentation to the CountyMetro
     township Geologist that the building will be designed to accommodate the predicted ground
     settlements, in such a manner as to be protective of life safety during the design event.




                                                                                              Page 241
19.75.083 - Avalanche considerations.

A.   Development of structures for human occupancy is not permitted within an avalanche special
     study area, or in other areas where avalanche hazards may exist, unless a detailed
     avalanche hazard analysis is performed, as described in Section 19.75.060, by a qualified
     avalanche expert.
B.    If the avalanche analysis indicates that the site may be impacted by avalanches, the report
     shall delineate the following areas:
     1.   A "red zone" of high avalanche potential [return period of twenty-five years or less, and/or
          impact pressures over six hundred pounds per square foot (psf)] within which critical
          facilities or structures for human occupancy are not permitted;
     2.   A "blue zone" (return period between twenty-five and three hundred years, and impact
          pressures less than six hundred psf) within which critical facilities or structures for human
          occupancy shall only be permitted when at least one of the following requirements has
          been met:
          a.    The structure is designed to incorporate direct protection measures that address
               the estimated impact forces (flowing snow/debris and powder blast loading). The
               estimated impact forces shall be calculated by the avalanche expert. The structure
               shall be designed by, and the plans stamped by, a qualified structural engineer
               licensed in the State of Utah; or
          b.    Appropriate engineering controls (i.e. deflection structures, snow retention nets,
               dams, etc.) are designed and installed to mitigate the avalanche hazard. Design or
               performance criteria for engineered mitigation measures (including estimated
               impact forces, flow heights, location and dimensions of the mitigation structures)
               and all supporting modeling or other analyses, calculations, and assumptions, shall
               be calculated by the avalanche expert and included in the report. Final design plans
               and specifications for engineered mitigation must be signed and stamped by a
               qualified professional geotechnical or structural engineer, as appropriate, licensed
               in the State of Utah.



19.75.091 - Disclosure when a geologic hazards report is required.

     Whenever a geologic hazards report is required under this chapter, the owner of the parcel
shall record a restrictive covenant running with the land in a form satisfactory to the CountyMetro
township prior to the approval of any development or subdivision of such parcel. Disclosure will
include signing a Disclosure and Acknowledgment Form provided by the CountyMetro township,
which will include the following:
     A.   Notice that the parcel is located within a Geologic Hazard Special Study Area as shown
          on the geologic hazard map or otherwise defined in Section 19.75.030;
     B.    Notice that a geologic hazards report was prepared and is available for public inspection
          in the CountyMetro township Geologist's Geologic Hazards Library;
     C.    Where geologic hazards and related setbacks are delineated in subdivisions and PUDs,
          the owner shall also place additional notification on the plat stating the above information,
          prior to final approval of the plat.



                                                                                              Page 242
19.75.092 - Disclosure when a geologic hazards report is not required.

     Whenever a parcel to be developed is located within a Geologic Hazard Special Study Area
but a geologic hazards report is not required under this chapter (such as but not limited to, a
single-family home located in a moderate liquefaction potential area), notice that the parcel is
located within such area(s) shall be recorded by the land owner by signing a Disclosure and
Acknowledgment Form provided by the CountyMetro township, prior to the approval of any such
development.



19.75.100 - Warning and disclaimer.

     The geologic hazards ordinance codified in this chapter and geologic hazard maps represent
only those hazardous areas known to the CountyMetro township, and should not be construed to
include all possible potential hazard areas. The geologic hazards ordinance and the geologic
hazard maps may be amended as new information becomes available pursuant to procedures
set forth in Chapter 19.90. The provisions of this chapter do not in any way assure or imply that
areas outside its boundaries will be free from the possible adverse effects of geologic hazards.
This chapter shall not create liability on the part of the CountyMetro township, any officer or
employee thereof for any damages from geologic hazards that result from reliance on this chapter
or any administrative requirement or decision lawfully made thereunder.



19.75.110 - Change of use.

     No change in use which results in the conversion of a building or structure from one not used
for human occupancy to one that is so used shall be permitted unless the building or structure
complies with the provisions of this chapter.



19.75.120 - Conflicting regulations.

    In cases of conflict between the provisions of existing zoning classifications, building code,
subdivision ordinance, or any other ordinance of the countymetro township and the geologic
hazards ordinance codified in this chapter, the most restrictive provision shall apply.



Chapter 19.76 - SUPPLEMENTARY AND QUALIFYING REGULATIONS                                             Commented [CW48]: This Chapter contains a list of
                                                                                                     miscellaneous provisions that pertain to specific types of
                                                                                                     developments, buildings, and/or land uses.

19.76.010 - Effect of chapter provisions.




                                                                                         Page 243
     The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as the case may
be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this title.



19.76.020 - Occupancy permit.

A.    Land, buildings and premises in any zone shall hereafter be used only for the purpose listed
     in this title as permitted in that zone, and in accordance with the regulations established in
     this title in that zone.
B.    The permit of occupancy shall be issued by the chief building inspector and the development
     services division director to the effect that the use and/or building or premises conforms to
     the provisions of this title and related ordinances prior to the occupancy of any building
     hereafter erected, enlarged or structurally altered, or where any vacant land is hereafter
     proposed to be occupied or used, except for permitted agricultural uses.
C.    Such a permit shall also be issued whenever the character or use of any building or land is
     proposed to be changed from one use to another use.
D.    Upon written request from the owner, such a permit shall also be issued covering any lawful
     use of a building or premises existing on the effective date of the amendment codified herein,
     including nonconforming buildings and uses.



19.76.030 - Uses not listed—Administrative determination.                                                 Commented [CW49]: Allows determinations to be made
                                                                                                          for uses not specifically listed in the ordinance but which
     Determination as to the classification of uses not specifically listed in this title shall be made   have similar traits to uses that are listed.
by the planning and development services division director and shall be subject to appeal to the
planning commission. Such appeal shall be filed in writing within ten days after written notification
to applicant of the planning and development services division director's determination. The
procedure shall be as follows:
     A.    Written Request. A written request for such a determination shall be filed with the
          planning and development services division director. The request shall include a detailed
          description of the proposed use and such other information as may be required.
     B.    Investigation. The planning and development services division director shall thereupon
          make such investigations as are deemed necessary to compare the nature and
          characteristics of the proposed use with those of uses specifically listed in this title, and
          to make a determination of its classification.
     C.    Determination. The determination of the planning and development services division
          director shall be rendered in writing within thirty days unless an extension is granted by
          the planning commission. The determination shall state the zone classification in which
          the proposed use will be permitted as well as the findings which established that such
          use is of the same character as uses permitted in that zone classification. Upon making
          this decision, the planning and development services division director shall forthwith
          notify the applicant, the planning commission and the development services division.
     D.    Effect. The determination and all information pertaining thereto shall become a
          permanent public record in the office of the planning and development services division
          director. Such use shall thereafter become a permitted or conditional use in the class of


                                                                                              Page 244
         district specified in the determination, and shall have the same status as a permitted or
         conditional use specifically named in the regulations for the zone classification.



19.76.035 - Appeal of planning commission decision.

     Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this title, any person shall have the right to appeal
to the land use hearing officer a decision of the planning commission rendered under this title.
Appeals shall follow the procedure set forth in Section 19.92.050.



19.76.040 - Dwellings to be on lots.

    Every dwelling shall be located and maintained on a lot, as defined in this title.



19.76.050 - Lots in separate ownership.                                                                    Commented [CW50]: Lots that pre-exist the ordinance
                                                                                                           itself are commonly called “lots of record.”
     The requirements of this title as to minimum lot area or lot width shall not be construed to
prevent the use for a single-family dwelling of any lot or parcel of land, provided that such lot or
parcel of land is located in a zone which permits single-family dwellings, and is a legally divided
lot held in separate ownership at the time such requirements became effective for such lot or
parcel of land.



19.76.060 - Separately owned lots—Reduced yards.                                                           Commented [CW51]: Automatic yard reductions for lots
                                                                                                           of record that are less than the current minimum lot width.
     On any lot under a separate ownership from adjacent lots and of record at the time of passage
of the ordinance codified herein, and such lot having a smaller width than required for the zone in
which it is located, the width of each of the side yards for a dwelling may be reduced to a width
which is not less than the same percentage of the width of the lot as the required side yard would
be of the required lot width; provided that, on interior lots, the smaller of the two yards shall be in
no case less than five feet, or the larger less than eight feet; and for corner lots, the side yard on
the side street shall be in no case less than ten feet or the other side yard be less than five feet.



19.76.065 - Public use—Reduced lot area and yards.                                                         Commented [CW52]: Gives the planning commission
                                                                                                           authority to reduce lot size and yard requirements for public
     The requirements of this title as to minimum lot area and minimum yards may be reduced by             uses (govt. buildings and utilities).
the planning commission for a public use. The planning commission shall not authorize a
reduction in the lot area or yard requirements unless the evidence presented is such as to
establish that the reduction will not, under the circumstances of the particular case, be detrimental
to the health, safety or general welfare of persons residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious
to property or improvements in the vicinity.



                                                                                              Page 245
19.76.080 - Lots and buildings on private rights-of-way.                                                  Commented [CW53]: Probably needs to be reworded.
                                                                                                          Very confusing provision.
      Except where the requirements of this section are reduced by permit of the land use hearing
officer, the minimum area for any lot fronting on a private right-of-way, at least twenty feet wide,
shall be one-half acre, and the minimum distance from the center of the right-of-way to the front
line of the building shall be fifty feet; except that property that cannot be subdivided as outlined in
the subdivision ordinance may be developed on a private street or right-of-way in any R zone
upon approval of the development services division director. Such approval shall be governed by
the official policies regulating such development, as adopted by the planning commission and on
file at the planning commission office.



19.76.090 - Sale of lots below minimum width and area.

     No parcel of land which has less than the minimum width and area requirements for the zone
in which it is located may be cut off from a large parcel of land for the purpose, whether immediate
or future, of building or development as a lot, except by permit of the land use hearing officer.



19.76.100 - Sale of space needed to meet requirements.

     No space needed to meet the width, yard, area, coverage, parking or other requirements of
this title for a lot or building may be sold or leased away from such lot or building.



19.76.110 - Yard space for one building only.

    No required yard or other open space around an existing building, or which is hereafter
provided around any building for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this title shall be
considered as providing a yard or open space for any other building; nor shall any yard or other
required open space on an adjoining lot be considered as providing a yard or open space on a lot
whereon a building is to be erected or established. This section shall be so construed to mean
only one main building may be permitted on one lot, unless otherwise provided in this title.



19.76.130 - Accessory buildings—Area of coverage.

   No accessory building or group of accessory buildings in any residential zone shall cover
more than twenty-five percent of the rear yard.


                                                                                                          Commented [CW54]: This provision has for the most part
19.76.140 - Private garage or carport—Reduced yards.                                                      been incorporated into the residential zones, but not the
                                                                                                          agricultural zones.


                                                                                              Page 246
    On a lot where a private garage or carport, containing at least one parking space of the two
required parking spaces per dwelling unit for a single-family dwelling or duplex, has the minimum
side yard required for such dwelling, the width of the other side yard may be reduced to the
minimum required side yard. Side yards adjacent to a street on a corner lot may not be reduced.
On any lot where such garage or carport has such side yard, the rear yard of the single-family
dwelling or duplex may be reduced to fifteen feet, provided the garage or carport also has a rear
yard of at least fifteen feet.



19.76.160 - Intersecting streets and clear visibility.                                                 Commented [CW55]: There is an illustration of the clear
                                                                                                       view area in Chapter 19.94, but perhaps it should be moved
     In all zones which require a front yard, no obstruction to view in excess of two feet in height   here (or at least a reference to the illustration here).
shall be placed on any corner lot within a triangular area formed by the street property lines and
a line connecting them at points forty feet from the intersection of the street lines, except a
reasonable number of trees pruned high enough to permit unobstructed vision to automobile
drivers, and pumps at gasoline service stations.



19.76.170 - Height limitations—Buildings less than one story.

    No building shall be erected to a height less than one story above grade.



19.76.190 - Height limitations—Exceptions.

     Penthouse or roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks, ventilating fans
or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the building, and fire or parapet walls,
skylights, towers, steeples, flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, water tanks, wireless or television
masts, theater lofts, silos or similar structures, may be erected above the height limits prescribed
in this title, but no space above the height limit shall be allowed for the purpose of providing
additional floor space, and no heights are permitted above the maximum allowed under airport
height provisions.



19.76.200 - Additional height allowed when.

     Public or semipublic utility buildings, when authorized in a zone, may be erected to a height
not exceeding seventy-five feet if the building is set back from each otherwise established building
line at least one foot for each additional foot of building height above the normal height limit
required for the zone in which the building is erected.



19.76.210 - Off-site improvements.                                                                     Commented [CW56]: Requires street improvements for
                                                                                                       new developments.




                                                                                           Page 247
A.    Off-Site Improvements Required. The applicant for a building or conditional use permit for
     all dwellings, commercial or industrial uses, and all other business and public and quasi-
     public uses shall provide curb, gutter and sidewalk along the entire property line which abuts
     any public road or street in cases where it does not exist at countymetro township standards.
     Vehicular entrances to the property shall be provided as required in Section 14.12.110.
     Height, location, structural specifications, maximum and minimum cut radii and minimum
     roadway approach angles to the centerline of the street are subject to the approval of the
     agency concerned.
B.   Fee in Lieu of Improvements.
     1.   Where conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical to install such curb, gutter
          and sidewalk, the planning commission may require the applicant to pay to the
          countymetro township a fee equal to the estimated cost of such improvements, as
          determined by the director of development services. Upon payment of such fee by the
          developer, the countymetro township shall assume the responsibility for future
          installation of such improvements.
     2.   The auditor shall place such fees in the special account established in Section 18.24.190
          of this code, and shall credit to such account a proportioned share of interest earned
          from investment of countymetro township moneys. Records relating to identification of
          properties for which fees have been collected, fee amounts collected for such properties,
          and money transfer requests shall be the responsibility of the development services
          division.
C.   Exceptions.
     1.   The planning commission may grant exception to installation of the sidewalk in industrial
          areas where the planning commission determines that the sidewalk is not necessary to
          serve the public need, and the elimination of the sidewalk does not jeopardize the public
          health, safety or welfare.
     2.   The planning commission may grant exception to installation of curb, gutter and sidewalk
          in rural or estate areas where topographic or other exceptional conditions exist, provided
          that the public health, safety and welfare is preserved.



19.76.220 - Water and sewage facilities.

      In all cases where a proposed building or proposed use will involve the use of sewage
facilities, and a sewer, as defined in the countymetro township sewer ordinance, is not available,
and all cases where a proposed supply of piped water under pressure is not available, the sewage
disposal and the domestic water supply shall comply with requirements of the county board of
health, and the application for a building permit shall be accompanied by a certificate of approval
from the board of health.



19.76.230 - Disconnection or disincorporation of property.

     Any parcel of property which becomes part of the unincorporated area of the county, because
of disconnection from a municipality or disincorporation of a municipality, shall be designated the


                                                                                            Page 248
zoning classification such parcel had prior to the date it became part of the municipality. In the
event such parcel was unzoned by the county on the date it became part of the municipality, it
shall be designated the zoning classification of A-5 at the time it becomes unincorporated.



19.76.240 - Animal and fowl restrictions.

     No animals or fowl shall be kept or maintained closer than forty feet from any dwelling on an
adjacent parcel of land, and no barn, stable, coop, pen or corral shall be kept closer than forty
feet from any street, except that in the R-2-10C residential zone, no corral or stable for the keeping
of horses may be located closer to a public street or to any dwelling on an adjacent parcel of land
than one hundred feet.



19.76.250 - Circuses, carnivals and Christmas tree sales.                                                Commented [CW57]: We have also used this provision
                                                                                                         for fireworks stands.
A.    The development services division director may issue a temporary use permit for a circus
     and/or carnival or other amusement enterprise of a similar nature, transient in nature, or
     Christmas tree sales, providing he shall find that the use will not conflict with the uses in the
     neighborhood of the subject property. To determine the compatibility of uses, the
     development services division director may call a public hearing. Request for such permit
     shall be submitted in writing.
B.   In issuing a permit, the development services division director may:
     1.   Stipulate the length of time the permit may remain valid;
     2.   Stipulate the hours of operation of the use;
     3.   Stipulate other regulations which are necessary for the public welfare.



19.76.260 - Day-care and preschool center—Special conditions.                                            Commented [CW58]: This is a list of conditions for
                                                                                                         commercial day care centers to be allowed in residential
     A day care/preschool center, as defined in Section 19.04.160 of this title, shall be subject to     areas.
the following conditions:
     A.   Must be compatible with existing and proposed land uses in the vicinity;
     B.   Receive recommendation of the Utah State Department of Social Services;
     C.   Provide required parking spaces on the site and an adequate pickup and delivery area;
     D.    New construction must be compatible in design and scale of building with existing
          development in the area;
     E.    Site must have frontage on a street with an existing or proposed right-of-way of eighty
          feet or greater, as identified on the road widening and improvement map attached to the
          ordinance codified herein and available in the planning commission office (except where
          the site is located in the R-M, MD-1, MD-3, C-1, C-2, C-3, O-R-D, M-1 or M-2 zones).




                                                                                             Page 249
19.76.270 - Overpressure area.                                                                            Commented [CW59]: Not needed for Copperton.

    Development in the overpressure area as defined in Section 15.14.010 and shown on the
special development standards areas map shall comply with Sections 15.14.030, 15.14.040,
15.14.050 and this section. The special development standards areas map is available in the
development services division office during regular office hours.



19.76.280 - Commercial renting of dwellings prohibited.                                                   Commented [CW60]: Prohibits short-term rentals unless
                                                                                                          specifically allowed in the zone.
    It shall be deemed a commercial use and unlawful to rent or lease any dwelling or portion
thereof located within any forestry, residential, agricultural or foothill agricultural zones listed in
Section 19.06.010 for lodging or accommodation purposes for a period less than thirty
consecutive days except as specifically allowed in the FM-10, FM-20, FR-0.5, FR-1, FR-2.5, FR-
5, FR-10, FR-20, FR-50, FR-100, R-2-6.5, R-2-8, R-2-10, R-2-10C, R-4-8.5, MD-1, MD-3, and R-
M zones.



19.76.290 - Single-family or two-family dwelling—Standards.                                               Commented [CW61]: These standards were designed to
                                                                                                          prevent single-wide trailers from being used as dwellings in
    Any detached single-family or two-family dwelling located on an individual lot outside of a           single-family residential areas.
mobile home park or mobile home subdivision must meet the off-street parking requirements in
Chapter 19.80 and the following standards in addition to any others required by law except as
provided in subsection I of this section:
    A.    The dwelling unit must meet the Salt Lake CountyInternational Residential Building
         Code or, if it is a manufactured home, it must be certified under the National
         Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, and must have
         been issued an insignia and approved by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
         Development, and must not have been altered in violation of such codes. A used
         manufactured home must be inspected by the countymetro township building official or
         his designated representative prior to placement on a lot to insure it has not been altered
         in violation of such codes.
    B.   The dwelling must be taxed as real property. If the dwelling is a manufactured home, an
         affidavit must be filed with the State Tax Commission pursuant to Utah Code Annotated
         59-2-602.
    C.    The dwelling must be permanently connected to and approved for all required utilities.
    D.    The dwelling must provide a minimum of seventy-two square feet (per dwelling unit) of
         enclosed storage, with a minimum height of six feet, located in the basement or garage
         area or in an accessory storage structure. Such structure shall conform to all applicable
         building codes.
    E.    The dwelling must be attached to a site-built permanent foundation which meets the
         Uniform Building Code or, if the dwelling is a manufactured home, the installation must
         meet the ICBO Guidelines for Manufactured Housing Installations, including any
         successors to these standards, and the space beneath the structure must be enclosed
         at the perimeter of the dwelling in accordance with such ICBO Guidelines, and
         constructed of materials that are weather-resistant and aesthetically consistent with


                                                                                              Page 250
     concrete or masonry type foundation materials. At each exit door there must be a landing
     that is a minimum of thirty-six inches by thirty-six inches and that is constructed to meet
     the requirements of the Uniform Building Code. All manufactured home running gear,
     tongues, axles and wheels must be removed at the time of installation.
F.    At least sixty percent of the roof of the dwelling must be pitched at a minimum of two
     and one-half to twelve (2.5:12) and shall have a roof surface of wood shakes, asphalt,
     composition, wood shingles, concrete, fiberglass or metal tiles or slate or built-up gravel
     materials.
G.    The dwelling shall have exterior siding material consisting of wood, masonry, concrete,
     stucco, masonite, or metal or vinyl lap, or any material meeting the Uniform Building
     Code or materials of like appearance approved by the development services director.
     The roof overhang must not be less than six inches, including rain gutters which may
     account for up to four inches of overhang, measured from the vertical side of the dwelling.
     The roof overhang requirement shall not apply to areas above porches, alcoves and
     other appendages which together do not exceed twenty-five percent of the length of the
     dwelling. The roof overhang may be reduced to two inches on the side of the dwelling
     facing the rear yard except on corner lots.
H.    The width of the dwelling shall be at least twenty feet at the narrowest part of its first
     story for a length of at least twenty feet exclusive of any garage area. The width shall be
     considered the lesser of the two primary dimensions. Factory-built or manufactured
     homes shall be multiple transportable sections at least ten feet wide unless transportable
     in three or more sections, in which case only one section need be ten feet wide.
I.   The development services director may approve deviations from one or more of the
     developmental or architectural standards provided in subsections E through H of this
     section on the basis of a finding that the architectural style proposed provides
     compensating design features and that the proposed dwelling will be compatible and
     harmonious with existing structures in the vicinity. The determination of the development
     services director may be appealed to the land use hearing officer pursuant to the
     provisions of subsection C of Section 19.92.070.
J.    Except as limited by subsection K of this section, use of one manufactured home as a
     dwelling on a parcel of land located outside of a mobile home park or mobile home
     subdivision prior to the initiation by the countymetro township of the enactment of the
     ordinance codified in this section, which use does not meet the requirements set forth in
     subsections A through H of this section shall be considered as a nonconforming dwelling
     though not previously approved by the countymetro township if such manufactured home
     and the parcel on which it is located comes into compliance by December 31, 1990, with
     all development standards which would have been applicable to a single-family dwelling
     located on such parcel at the time the manufactured home was first used on the parcel
     as a dwelling. Development standards shall include subdivision, zoning, flood control,
     outside electrical hookup, applicable fees, health, and fire department requirements for
     single-family dwellings on such parcel.
K.    The use of a manufactured home as a dwelling located on an individual parcel or lot
     outside of a mobile home park or mobile home subdivision shall terminate on December
     31, 1990, unless the owner opts to have the manufactured home taxed as real property
     on or before such date by filing an affidavit with the State Tax Commission pursuant to
     Utah Code Annotated 59-2-602 and meeting the requirements of that statute for having
     the manufactured home taxed as real property.



                                                                                       Page 251
     L.   Replacement of an existing nonconforming manufactured home on a lot outside a mobile
          home park or mobile home subdivision shall comply with all requirements herein.



19.76.300 - Oil and gas transmission pipeline notification.                                              Commented [CW62]: The gas and oil pipeline companies
                                                                                                         insisted on an ordinance to protect their pipelines, and
A.    A notification area is hereby established for any parcels within six hundred sixty feet from       these next two sections are the result.
     the mapped centerline of an oil or gas transmission pipeline, as indicated by the countymetro
     township's pipeline protection map, a geographic information system (GIS) based map. The
     countymetro township makes no warranty as to the accuracy of this map, which reflects
     information provided by pipeline operators.
B.    At the time of application for a development permit the countymetro township shall notify the
     applicant if the proposed development is within the notification area and provide contact
     information for the pipeline operator(s) in the area and for Utah's one-call program. It is the
     obligation of pipeline operators to correct or update their information with the countymetro
     township.
C.    If any proposed development is within the notification area, the applicant for a development
     permit shall contact the pipeline operators) and provide them with a copy of the application
     and timely notice of the first scheduled public hearing on the application, if there is one. The
     applicant shall file proof of this notification with the county planning and development division
     before any development permit may be issued. Proof of notification shall be kept on file with
     the application. Once the development permit is issued, it is the responsibility of the applicant
     to consider any comments and recommendations posed by the pipeline operator(s) to ensure
     no pipelines are damaged during construction of the approved project.
D.    Subdivision plats within two hundred feet from the centerline of a pipeline as shown on the
     countymetro township's pipeline protection map shall show the pipeline location on the plat.
     The location of all known oil or gas transmission lines and related easements shall also be
     shown on all zoning, building and record plat maps.



19.76.310 - Oil and gas transmission pipeline map modification.

A.    It is the obligation of pipeline operators to correct or update the countymetro township's
     pipeline protection map, and they shall do this by filing an application to modify the map. The
     application shall be presented to the development services director or designee for review
     and approval. Complete application must include:
     1.   An explanation from the pipeline operator(s) of how the corrected or proposed location
          was determined for each transmission pipeline; and
     2.   Electronic GIS data or detailed drawings delineating the correct or proposed location.



                                                                                                         Commented [CW63]: This chapter was based on a water-
Chapter 19.77 - WATER EFFICIENT LANDSCAPE DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT                                         conservation model ordinance provided by Jordan Valley
STANDARDS                                                                                                Water. Then, various other requirements were added until
                                                                                                         it became kind of a mess. This whole chapter should be
                                                                                                         simplified.


                                                                                             Page 252
19.77.010 - Purpose and intent.

A.    The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards for the protection and enhancement of
     Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township's environmental, economic, recreational, and
     aesthetic resources. The landscape design and development standards set forth in this
     chapter are intended to promote the following:
     1.    More efficient use of water resources for landscape irrigation purposes;
     2.     Preservation and enhancement of the countymetro township's environmental and
           aesthetic character;
     3.     Enhancement of land use compatibility and promotion of design continuity between
           adjacent land uses;
     4.    Reduction of energy consumption through the prudent placement of plant materials;
     5.    Improved management of stormwater runoff;
     6.     Reduction in the absorption and re-generation of heat from paved vehicular parking
           areas and other impervious surfaces;
     7.    Separation of vehicular and pedestrian functions within on-site vehicular circulation and
           parking areas;
     8.    Spatial and visual separation of parked vehicles from public view and adjacent vehicular
           travel ways;
     9.    Reduction of vehicular headlight glare and intrusive artificial light onto area residences;
     10.     Reduction of development-related environmental impacts through improved
           management of erosion, noise, dust, air pollution and glare;
     11.     Re-introduction of native and low water use plant species into the developed
           environment;
     12.    Reduction of landscape maintenance responsibilities and costs.



19.77.020 - Scope and applicability.

    Homeowner-provided landscape improvements within the front, side and rear yards of single-
and two-family dwellings are exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
     A.     Newly Established Land Uses. Except as noted above, these landscape standards shall
           be applied to all new developments in the unincorporated area of Salt Lake Countymetro
           township. Residential development projects such as but not limited to planned unit
           developments, condominiums, multifamily residential developments and residential
           subdivision projects in which improvements such as but not limited to the dwelling units,
           common area, recreational amenities and infrastructure improvements are provided by
           the developer shall be landscaped in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
     B.    Existing Developments. Land use developments in existence at the effective date of this
           chapter shall, to the maximum extent feasible, be brought into compliance with the
           chapter's provisions if:


                                                                                             Page 253
     1.    The gross floor area of improvements existing on the property at the effective date of
          this chapter are changed, modified, or expanded by more than twenty percent.                   Commented [CW64]: This should probably be limited to
          Compliance under the noted circumstances applies whether the changes, modifications,           “expanded”
          or expansions occur in a single event or in incremental stages.
     C.   Off-Street Parking.
     1.    New Developments. Off-street parking facilities for all new developments shall be
          landscaped in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. These include:
          a.   Surface or at-grade parking areas;
          b.   The exterior perimeter of parking structures at all levels, as well as the open-air top
               parking level of such structures.
     2.   Existing Parking Areas. Off-street parking areas in existence on the effective date of this
          chapter shall be brought into compliance with the provisions of the chapter as noted
          below:
          a.    Expansion by Fifty Percent or Less. When an existing off-street parking area is
               expanded by fifty percent or less the newly established expansion area shall be
               brought into compliance with both the interior and exterior/perimeter landscape
               requirements of this chapter.
          b.    Expansion by More Than Fifty Percent. When an existing off-street parking area is
               expanded by more than fifty percent, the entire expansion area shall be brought into
               compliance with both the interior and exterior/perimeter landscape standards of this
               section. The pre-existing parking area, while not required to be retroactively brought
               into compliance with this section's interior parking area landscape requirements,
               shall be made to conform to exterior/perimeter area landscape standards.
          c.   Repeated Expansions. Repeated expansions of a parking lot area over a period of
               time commencing with the effective date of this chapter shall be combined in
               determining whether the fifty percent threshold has been reached.
D.   Exemptions. The provisions of this chapter do not apply to the following:
     1.   The interior undercover portions of parking structures;
     2.   The interior undercover portions of carports containing no more than ten parking spaces;
     3.   The interior display areas of vehicle and equipment sales lots;
     4.   The interior areas of vehicle and equipment storage lots;
     5.   Properties listed on the national or state historic registers.
              In addition, areas dedicated and used for the following specific purposes are exempt
          from the landscape water allowance limitations of this chapter:
               a.   Sports fields;
               b.   Turf areas within public parks;
               c.   Golf courses;
               d.   Cemeteries.
     Although exempt from landscape water allowance limitations, all other provisions of this
chapter shall apply. In particular, landscaping shall be provided in the interior and perimeter areas
of off-street parking facilities, adjacent to buildings, and along walkways.


                                                                                             Page 254
19.77.030 - Promotion of maximum water efficiency.                                                        Commented [CW65]: One would think it would be
                                                                                                          possible to condense this whole section down to a simple
A.    Establishment and Maintenance of a Site-Specific Landscape Water Allowance. So as to                maximum number of gallons per square foot per year rather
     assure more efficient water consumption in the establishment and long-term maintenance of            than putting all this in the ordinance, but…
     site landscape improvements, an annual landscape water allowance shall be established and
     maintained for each property improved as set forth in this chapter.
     The landscape water allowance shall be calculated using the following equation:
           Landscape Water Allowance = ET0 × 1.0 × 0.62 × A where landscape water allowance
     is in gallons per year.
          ET0 = Reference evapotranspiration in inches per year.
         1.0 = ET0 adjustment factor, one hundred percent of turf grass ET0 (water year
     adjustment factor).
          0.62 = Conversion factor (to gallons per square feet).
          A = Total irrigated landscape area in square feet.
     The ET0 or reference evapotranspiration for Salt Lake Countymetro township is 31.18 inches
per year. Converting this figure so that a landscape water allowance can be expressed in gallons
per year requires the use of the conversion factor to obtain an equivalent amount in gallons per
square feet (19.33). An ET0 adjustment factor of one is used in order to accommodate the use of
turf under circumstances that promote maximum water efficiency.
     Acceptable water efficiency shall be deemed to have been achieved when the approved
landscape plan indicates a landscape water allowance of no more than fifteen gallons per square
foot average for the entire landscaped area of the site. Multiplying this figure by the total irrigated
landscape area in square feet yields the annual water budget for landscape use for the property.
B.    Introduction and Use of Native and Other Drought-Tolerant Plants. In order to promote
     maximum water conservation, not less than eighty percent of the trees and shrubs used on
     a site shall be water conserving species capable of withstanding dry conditions once
     established. Native plants shall be used to the maximum extent feasible. Drought-tolerant
     grass varieties shall be used in areas planted in turf or lawn. Lists of plants that satisfy these
     requirements and that are available locally may be obtained from the director.
C.    Plant Establishment and Arrangement on the Basis of Water Consumption. Among the many
     ways in which plants may be distinguished from one another is categorization on the basis of
     water use. Establishment and arrangement of plants on a site according to the water needs
     of those plants is commonly referred to as hydrozone management. Hydrozone management
     is required by this chapter and shall be implemented through the use of the following:
     1.   Plants with similar water needs shall be grouped together as much as possible.
     2.    Areas landscaped with high water use plants shall be, whenever possible, separated
          from those with low and very low water use by moderate water use landscape zones.
     3.    For projects located at the interface between urban areas and natural (nonirrigated)
          open space, drought-tolerant plants that will blend with the native vegetation shall be
          selected. Plants that tend to accumulate excessive amount of dead wood or debris are
          to be avoided. Plants with low fuel volume or high moisture content are preferred. Every




                                                                                              Page 255
          effort is to be taken to minimize fire hazards. Lists of plants that satisfy these
          requirements and that are available locally may be obtained from the director.
     4.   Areas with slopes greater than thirty percent shall be landscaped with deep-rooting,
          water-conserving plants for erosion control and soil stabilization.
     5.   Park strips and other landscaped areas less than ten feet wide shall be landscaped with
          water-conserving plants.
D.   Irrigation System Requirements.
     1.    Designer Qualifications. All sprinkler irrigation systems shall be designed by a qualified
          professional who is licensed under Utah Code Title 58 or by a person who is exempt
          from professional licensure requirements for the scope of work performed.
     2.    Design Standards. Irrigation design standards applicable to this chapter shall be as
          outlined in the latest version of the minimum standards for efficient landscape irrigation
          system design and installation prepared by the Utah Irrigation Association, subject to the
          following modifications and additions:
          a.    Pressure Regulation. A pressure regulating valve shall be installed and maintained
               if the static service pressure exceeds eighty pounds per square inch (psi).
          b.    Automatic Controller. All irrigation systems shall include an electric automatic
               controller with multiple programs, multiple repeat cycle capabilities so as to reduce
               runoff on slopes and soils with slow infiltration rates, and a flexible calendar
               program. All controllers shall be capable of utilizing an automatic rain shut-off
               device, and the ability to adjust run times based on a percentage of maximum ET0.
          c.   Slope Adjustments. On slopes exceeding thirty percent, the irrigation system shall
               consist of low precipitation rate rotors or spray heads, drip emitters, or bubblers with
               a maximum precipitation rate of 0.85 inches per hour and adjusted irrigation cycle
               times to eliminate runoff.
          d.    Irrigation Zones and Use. Each zone shall irrigate a landscape with similar site,
               slope and soil conditions and plant materials with similar watering needs. Turf and
               nonturf areas shall be irrigated on separate zones. Drip emitters and sprinklers shall
               be placed on separate zones.
          e.    Tree Irrigation. Drip emitters or bubblers shall be provided for each tree not planted
               in a turf area. Irrigation in the vicinity shall be factored in to prevent under or over-
               watering and to ensure deep root growth. Bubblers shall not exceed one and one-
               half gallons per minute per device. Bubblers for trees shall be placed on a separate
               valve as warranted by tree species and area conditions.
          f.   Turf Zones. Sprinklers shall have matched precipitation rates with each zone.
          g.   Elevation Adjustments. Check valves shall be required where elevation differences
               will cause low-head drainage. Pressure regulating valves and pressure
               compensating heads and drip emitters with a pressure regulating device shall be
               required where a significant variation in water pressure will occur within the irrigation
               system due to elevation differences.
          h.   Requirements for Drip Irrigation. Drip irrigation lines shall have filters and automatic
               end flush valves and be protected by organic or rock mulch.
          i.   Automatic Controller Zones. Zones with spray or stream sprinklers shall not be
               scheduled to operate between the hours of ten a.m. to seven p.m. so as to reduce


                                                                                              Page 256
               water loss from wind and evaporation. Drip irrigation systems are subject to no such
               operational constraints.
          j.   Operational Efficiency. The minimum efficiency required for irrigation systems
               established in accordance with the requirements of this chapter is as follows:
               i.    The distribution efficiency for all fixed spray systems shall be sixty percent.
               ii.   The distribution efficiency for all rotor systems shall be seventy percent.
          k.   Scheduling of System Operations. A schedule shall be developed which allows for
               plant material to be established. This shall have a maximum two-year time period.
               Once established, a revised schedule shall be developed for maintenance of the
               plant material. The schedule presently in effect shall be posted at the controller. The
               schedule shall reflect an application rate which achieves optimum system efficiency,
               a minimum one-hour time interval between all applications, and provisions against
               irrigation during restricted hours.



19.77.040 - Landscape design standards and guidelines.

A.    Standards Applicable to All Developments. Required site landscape improvements shall be
     provided in accordance with the standards and design guidelines set forth in this chapter.
     The standards set forth herein are numerically measurable so as to readily facilitate the
     preparation, review and approval of landscape plan submittals and the subsequent
     verification of compliance with the requirements of the chapter. Design guidelines, though
     not precisely measurable, are intended to clarify the principles associated with specified
     standards, provide guidance for the review and approval of submitted landscape plans, and
     provide flexibility for design professionals who wish to propose alternative compliance
     approaches.
B.    Retention of Significant Natural Features. Features that are unique to a property, such as
     but not limited to that property's natural topography, existing vegetation, or riparian features
     shall be taken into consideration in the planning and design of landscape improvements for
     that property. Priority is to be given to the preservation or protection of existing natural areas,
     particularly where mature or specimen trees or wooded riparian areas are a part of a
     proposed development site. The proposed locations of streets, buildings and lots shall, as
     much as possible, minimize disturbance to significant existing trees.
C.   Tree Preservation, Removal and Replacement.                                                           Commented [CW66]: Preservation of existing trees on
                                                                                                           undeveloped parcels is one of the priorities of this
     1.   All healthy trees having a caliper of four inches in size or larger shall be preserved to the    ordinance.
          maximum extent feasible. Preserved trees shall be credited to the satisfaction of
          replacement trees on a three to one caliper-to-caliper basis.
     2.    Preserved trees shall be credited toward the satisfaction of the tree planting
          requirements of this chapter.
     3.   Where existing trees are to be protected, the following standards shall apply:
          a.    A fenced tree protection zone shall be established around each tree or cluster of
               trees to be retained. The perimeter of this zone, which shall coincide with the drip
               line of the tree or trees to be protected, shall be clearly marked with high-visibility
               materials at a minimum height of four feet.



                                                                                               Page 257
          b.    The storage or movement of equipment, material, debris or fill is prohibited within
               the fenced tree protection zone so as to minimize soil compaction.
          c.   The cleaning of equipment or material or the storage and disposal of waste material
               such as paints, oils, solvents, asphalt, concrete, motor oil or any other material
               harmful to the life of a tree is prohibited within the drip line of any protected tree or
               group of trees.
          d.   No cut or fill is permitted within the drip line of any protected existing tree or group
               of trees unless a qualified arborist, forester or landscape architect has evaluated
               and approved the disturbance.
          e.    All protected existing trees shall be pruned as specified by a qualified arborist or
               forester.
          f.   No damaging attachment, wires, signs or permits may be fastened to any protected
               tree.
          g.   Large property areas containing protected trees and separated from construction or
               land clearing areas, road rights-of-way and utility easements may be "ribboned off,"
               rather than erecting protective fencing around each tree as required above. This
               may be accomplished by placing metal t-post stakes a maximum of fifty feet apart
               and tying ribbon or rope from stake-to-stake along the outside perimeters of such
               areas being cleared.
     4.   The removal of trees is allowed under the following circumstances:
          a.   Where trees have naturally fallen or are determined by a licensed arborist to be
               dead or dying.
          b.    Where trees have been diagnosed by a qualified arborist as unhealthy beyond
               reasonable rehabilitation.
          c.   Where trees are determined to be potentially harmful to the public health, safety or
               welfare.
          d.   Where it has been determined by the countymetro township that tree removal is
               necessary to restore clear visibility at driveways and intersections.
          e.    Where the preservation of trees would prevent reasonable site grading to
               accommodate a functional arrangement of buildings and related improvements on
               the property. Written documentation of the above is required prior to the removal of
               any tree.
     5.    Trees having a caliper of four inches in size or greater which are removed shall be
          replaced on the development site by trees of no less than two-inch caliper in size. The
          required replacement ratio shall be one tree for every two caliper inches (cumulative) of
          trees removed. Replacement trees shall not be credited toward the satisfaction of the
          tree planting requirements of this chapter but shall be in addition to that otherwise
          specified.
D.    Exposure to Sun and Wind. Plant selection and placement shall recognize the importance
     of energy conservation. Deciduous trees which are sun tolerant shall be planted on the south
     and west sides of buildings so as to provide shade from summer sun while allowing winter
     sun to radiate into buildings. Shade-tolerant plants and evergreen trees shall be planted on
     the north to northwest sides of buildings in order to reduce the chilling effects of winter winds.




                                                                                              Page 258
E.    New Plantings. The measurements and specifications for all live plants used to fulfill the         Commented [CW67]: This is a checklist of issues for the
     requirements of this chapter shall be as set forth in the American Standard for Nursery Stock       landscape designer to be aware of has he/she draws the
     (ANSI Z60.1-204) as published and periodically amended by the American Nursery and                  landscape plans for a development.
     Landscape Association. The following are minimums in relation to those standards. Nothing
     in this chapter shall be interpreted to prohibit the provision of landscape improvements in
     excess of these minimums.
     1.    Plant Quality. Required plant materials shall be nursery or field grown, unless otherwise
          approved, and shall be healthy, well-branched vigorous stock with a growth habit normal
          to the species and variety, free from defects decay, disfiguring roots, sun-scald, injuries,
          abrasions of the bark, plant diseases, insect pest eggs, borers and all forms of
          infestations or objectionable disfigurements of diseases, insects and injuries.
     2.   Plant Coverage and Growth Rate. The quantity and size of materials planted shall be
          sufficient to attain a percentage of coverage of seventy-five percent of organically
          planted areas within three years of initial planting.
     3.   Species Diversity. A variety of plant species shall be utilized in all site landscaping. No
          one species may make up more than twenty-five percent of the total nonturf plant
          materials within the landscaped area. In order to prevent uniform insect or disease
          susceptibility and to stem the untimely degeneration or premature deterioration of trees
          planted or retained on a development site or in the adjacent area, species diversity is
          required. The following minimum requirements shall apply.

      Total Number of Trees on Site                  Maximum Percent of Any One Species

                   10—19                                               50%

                   20—39                                               33%

                   40—59                                               25%

                 60 or more                                            15%




              Special consideration shall be given to canyon areas to protect against decimation
          due to insect or disease infestations.
     4.    Lawn and Turf Areas. Areas proposed for planting in turf or lawn shall be a minimum of
          ten feet in width. Drought-tolerant grass varieties shall be established and maintained.
     5.   Mulch. All landscape areas not planted with shrubs, perennials, turf or other groundcover
          shall be covered with a minimum three-inch layer of mulch (except around the crown of
          plants) to retain water, inhibit weed growth, and moderate soil temperature. Newly
          planted trees in areas predominantly improved with turf shall be provided a plant-free
          mulched area with a minimum radius of four feet around the trunks in order to protect the
          trunks from turf-maintenance operations and expedite tree root establishment.
          Nonporous materials (e.g., plastic) shall not be placed under the mulch. Bare soil is not
          permitted.


                                                                                             Page 259
     6.    Tree Placement. Trees shall be located to provide summer shade and limit winter shade
           on walks, parking lots, and streets.
     7.    Root Accommodation. Prior to the installation of trees, a determination shall be made as
           to whether root barriers are necessary to prevent roots from uplifting or cracking
           sidewalks or other hard surface improvements in the vicinity of the tree. Root barrier
           collars and root path trenches shall be installed as needed to provide such protection
           and to ensure healthy tree root growth.
     8.     Tree Size Requirements at Planting. All new and replacement trees shall meet the
           following minimum size requirements at planting:

                   a. Deciduous                                      two-inch caliper

           b. Ornamental and flowering                        one and one-half inch caliper

                   c. Evergreen                                         six feet tall




     Where the above plant materials are secured on the basis of container size, equivalency shall
be in accordance with the American Standard for Nursery Stock (ANSI Z60.1-204) as published
and periodically amended by the American Nursery and Landscape Association.
     9.     Shrub Size at Planting. All shrubs shall be a minimum of twelve inches in height or
           spread (typically five gallon in size at planting, except when used solely for screening
           purposes, in which case twenty-four inch in height or spread is required.
     10.     Area Requirements for Landscape Improvements. No less than twenty percent of the
           gross area of a property subject to the requirements of this chapter shall be improved
           and maintained as landscape area. Land area encumbered by buildings, structures,
           paving and other impervious surfaces not related to on-site landscape improvements
           shall not be considered in the calculation of landscape area.                                   Commented [CW68]: This is a strange place to have this
                                                                                                           requirement, and is often missed by professionals going
F.    Design Guidelines. The intent of design guidelines is to acknowledge the expertise and               through this ordinance looking for the requirements. It
     integrity of licensed design professionals and to afford them a commensurate level of                 would seem more appropriate under 19.77.050
     flexibility in achieving the purposes and intent of this chapter. Guidelines are included in this
     chapter so as to clarify or expand upon the principles associated with specified standards.           Commented [CW69]: Another list of issues the designer
                                                                                                           needs to take into account.
     They are further provided for guidance in the preparation and submittal of complying
     landscape plans. Design guidelines may be used either in conjunction with or in lieu of other
     required on-site landscape improvements. When employed in lieu of strict compliance with
     chapter provisions, substantiation of compliance with the purposes and intent of this chapter
     is required.
     1.     Separation and Screening with Plant Material. The intent of this guideline is to soften
           long expanses of building walls, fences and other hard-surface barriers and to effectively
           screen such surfaces from undisturbed on- or off-site view. Its further intent is to separate
           and screen new buildings and ancillary site improvements and activities from off-premise
           view.
     2.     Integration with Plantings. The intent of this guideline is twofold; (1) to provide better
           integration of newly constructed or remodeled site building improvements and outdoor


                                                                                               Page 260
     spaces with other site improvements in the vicinity, or (2) to significantly enhance area
     characteristics through the coordinated introduction of new architectural themes, outdoor
     areas, and landscape improvements into areas in need of rehabilitation. In either event
     the incorporation of a diversity of plant materials, colors, textures, heights and aesthetic
     considerations of a similar nature may be employed.
3.    Establishing Privacy. Privacy is particularly important where larger buildings are
     proposed next to the side or rear yards of smaller buildings. In such instances a higher-
     than-normal incidence of vertical landscape elements may be employed to address
     privacy concerns.
4.    Land Form Shaping. Retention of existing land form is encouraged where site
     topography beneficially serves aesthetic and aquifer recharge purposes. Where
     reconfiguration of existing topographic conditions on a site is required to achieve these
     purposes, such grade changes should be either reminiscent of or complementary to
     natural land forms in the vicinity. The resulting land form modifications should, in either
     event, incorporate a high degree of both horizontal and vertical land form articulation,
     creating both berms and swales for aesthetic variety and groundwater collection
     purposes.
5.   Visual Integration of Fences or Walls. Security fences and solid visual barriers commonly
     detract from the aesthetics of the area in which they're established. Similarly, though not
     so severely, garden walls, privacy fences, screen panels, arbors, and structures of a like
     nature may adversely affect area aesthetics. In such instances creative landscape
     enhancements may be employed to change the sense of proximity to such structures
     and to improve area aesthetics.
     In applying these or similar strategies to achieve the purposes and intent of this chapter,
the objectives with regards to aesthetic enhancement of on-site improvements are to:
     a.   Add visual interest adjacent to large expanses of building walls;
     b.   Enhance the architectural features of new building construction;
     c.   Provide better site integration of structural improvements;
     d.   Soften hard edges;
     e.   Enhance the compatibility of land uses of different character, intensity, and density;
     f.   Reduce the potentially adverse impacts of site-generated noise;
     g.   Screen views into or between windows and defined outdoor spaces;
         In applying these or similar strategies with regards to the integration of on-site
     improvements with surrounding areas, the objectives are to:
          i.     Mitigate potential conflicts between divergent land uses, development densities
                 or intensities, and building design or scale;
          ii.    Maintain privacy for existing area residences;
          iii.   Provide appropriate transitions between developed, managed landscape areas
                 and those comprised of more natural vegetation;
          iv.     Introduce high quality site improvements into areas in need of redevelopment.




                                                                                        Page 261
19.77.050 - Landscape yards or setbacks and buffer areas.

A.   Landscaping Required.                                                                                  Commented [CW70]: This section deals with minimum
                                                                                                            landscaping required in front yards and street-facing side
     1.   Improvement Requirements in Relation to Yard Depth. In all zones where a front yard is            yards.
          required the entire frontage and depth of that yard area and any side yard area abutting
          a street shall be landscaped. Visibility at intersecting streets shall be maintained as set
          forth in Section 19.76.160 of this title. Parking areas shall not encroach on these
          minimum required setbacks except as herein authorized. The perimeter boundaries of
          all off-street parking areas that abut streets accessible to the public shall be landscaped
          and screened from public view. Specified yard area depth measurements are from the
          public right-of-way or private street easement boundary.
          a.    Front and street side areas where a yard or setback depth of no less than twenty
               feet is maintained.
               i.     An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio of 3:1 (three
                      feet horizontal to one foot vertical) so as to provide a meandering earthen berm
                      traversing the entire width of the area and having a maximum height of three
                      feet and an average height of thirty-two inches, as measured from the grade of
                      the closest abutting sidewalk or top of curb.
               ii.     Landscaping within yards located between a street and a parking area shall
                      include street trees as specified in this chapter. In addition, not less than fifty
                      percent of these landscaped yards shall include a mix of evergreen and
                      deciduous shrubs, herbaceous perennials, and nonturf groundcover. The
                      balance of this area may be planted in turf and utilized for the placement of
                      large boulders or similar visual accents so long as the combination of berms,
                      plantings and visual accents effectively screen from public view any parked
                      vehicles in contiguous off-street parking areas on the property.
          b.   Provisions for Yard Reductions to No Less Than Fifteen Feet. Front and street side
               yards or setback areas with no abutting off-street parking may be reduced to a depth
               of not less than fifteen feet with provision of the following:
               i.     An open decorative fence (picket, split rail, etc.) on the interior side of the
                      landscaped area. Alternatively, a continuous hedge no less than three feet in
                      height at planting, as measured from the grade of the abutting sidewalk or
                      street, may be provided.
               ii.    An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio of 3:1 (three
                      feet horizontal to one foot vertical) so as to provide a meandering earthen berm
                      traversing the entire width of the area and having a maximum height of thirty-
                      two inches and an average height of two feet, as measured from the grade of
                      the closest abutting sidewalk or top of curb.
               iii.    No less than seventy-five percent coverage of the landscaped area with street
                      trees (includes canopy at maturity) as specified in this chapter together with a
                      mix of sub-canopy evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous perennials,
                      and nonturf groundcover. The balance of this area may be planted in turf and
                      utilized for the placement of large boulders or similar visual accents.
          c.   Provisions for encroachment of off-street parking areas into required front and street
               side yards or setback areas.




                                                                                                Page 262
          i.    Encroachments to Within Twelve Feet. Off-street parking areas may encroach
                into required front and street side yard or setback areas such that a minimum
                depth of not less than twelve feet is maintained subject to provision of the
                following:
                (A)     An area of land graded and re-contoured at a maximum slope ratio of 3:1
                      (three feet horizontal to one foot vertical) so as to provide an earthen berm
                      traversing the entire width of the area with a height of no less than thirty
                      inches above the grade of the abutting sidewalk or street and supported on
                      its interior side by a masonry retaining wall no less than four feet in height
                      above the grade of the abutting off-street parking area surface. The use of
                      this alternative is restricted to properties where it is feasible to provide a
                      parking area with a finished grade at least two feet below the grade of the
                      adjacent street.
                (B)     No less than seventy-five percent coverage of the landscaped area with
                      street trees (includes canopy at maturity) as specified in this chapter,
                      together with a mix of sub-canopy evergreen and deciduous shrubs,
                      herbaceous perennials, and nonturf groundcover. The balance of this area
                      may be planted in turf and utilized for the placement of large boulders or
                      similar visual accents.
          ii.    Encroachments to Within Eight Feet. Off-street parking areas may encroach
                into required front and street side yard or setback areas such that a minimum
                depth of not less than eight feet is maintained subject to provision of the
                following:
                (A)     A horizontally and vertically articulated decorative wall along the interior
                      edge of the yard or setback area. Said wall shall have a minimum height of
                      thirty-six inches, a maximum height of forty-eight inches and an average
                      overall height of forty-two inches as measured from the adjacent paved
                      parking area, if provided, or from the adjacent sidewalk or street surface
                      level, if not. In plan view the decorative screen wall shall vary by eight to
                      sixteen-inch offsets at linear intervals along the wall of every eight to ten
                      feet.
                (B)     No less than ninety percent coverage of the landscaped area with street
                      trees (includes canopy at maturity) as specified in this chapter, together
                      with a mix of sub-canopy evergreen and deciduous shrubs, herbaceous
                      perennials, and nonturf groundcover. The balance of this area must be
                      surfaced with mulch in accordance with the standards of this chapter and
                      may be utilized for the placement of large boulders or similar visual
                      accents.
                    NOTE: Site improvements in conjunction with permitted and conditionally
                permitted uses in the M-1 and M-2 manufacturing zones are exempt from the
                above landscape area requirements.
2.   Plant Quantities. Regardless of depth, all landscape areas adjacent to a street (including
     required park strips) shall be planted and maintained with the following:
     a.   One and one-fourth trees per one thousand sq. ft. of the ground or main floor level
          of nonresidential buildings in commercial zones.




                                                                                           Page 263
          b.   Two trees per one thousand sq. ft. of the ground or main floor level of buildings in
               manufacturing zones.
          c.    One tree per twenty-five lineal feet of street frontage (not applicable to
               manufacturing and warehouse uses).
          d.   One shrub per four lineal feet of building foundation (may be grouped).
          e.   Any combination of other live plant materials and decorative features consistent with
               the requirements of this chapter.
B.    Interior Side and Rear Yards. The side and rear yard areas required by this title shall be
     landscaped and maintained as set forth in this chapter. Overhanging or cantilevered
     structures may not encroach upon such areas.
C.    Buffer Areas Between Nonresidential and Residential Land Uses. A landscaped buffer area           Commented [CW71]: This provision ought to be changed,
     not less than twenty feet wide shall be required between nonresidential and residential uses.      because it appears to conflict with the minimum setback
     A minimum of one tree for every twenty-five linear feet of landscape buffer is required. Either    requirement for buildings in some cases. It ought to clarify
     a linear or cluster arrangement of trees is allowed so long as the spacing of provided trees       that “except for the area occupied by buildings as allowed
                                                                                                        by the minimum yard requirements of the underlying
     adequately screens the nonresidential use from the adjacent residential area. If a linear
                                                                                                        zone…” this buffer is required.
     arrangement of trees is provided, tree spacing shall not exceed twenty-five feet on center.



19.77.060 - Parking lot landscaping.                                                                    Commented [CW72]: This section was intended to
                                                                                                        provide some landscaping and shade requirements in
A.    Interior Parking Planters. Landscaped planters, which may incorporate depressions for the         parking lots to avoid the creation of “heat islands.”
     collection of stormwater run-off, shall be provided in any parking lot containing twenty or more   However, it could be worded better to be more clear about
     parking spaces. These planters shall be constructed to the following standards.                    what is expected up front.

     1.   Landscape Planter Types.
          a.    Islands. Islands are planter areas parallel to and situated at the end of a row of
               individual parking stalls.
          b.    Peninsulas. Peninsulas are planter areas parallel to and situated at specified
               intervals within a row of parking stalls.
          c.   Medians. Medians are planter areas perpendicular to and separating opposing rows
               of head-in parking stalls.
     2.   Landscape Planter Construction.
          a.   Landscape planters shall be constructed of continuous concrete curb in accordance
               with applicable countymetro township standards and of no less than six inches in
               height unless a depression area for collection of stormwater runoff is provided.
          b.   A minimum four-foot radius curbing shall be provided along drive aisles.
     3.   Location, Spacing and Minimum Number of Landscape Planters Required. Landscape
          planters shall be provided in accordance with the following:
          a.   One island at each end of a row of parking stalls, together with either:
               i.    One peninsula for every six contiguous parking spaces or portion thereof per
                     row where uninterrupted vehicular traffic flow is allowed between abutting
                     parking spaces; or
               ii.   One continuous median per row of head-in parking stalls.


                                                                                            Page 264
          b.   Flexibility is allowed in the configuration of landscape planters for rows with angled
               parking.
     4.   Landscape Planter Length. The length of each landscape planter, measured from face
          of curb to face of curb, shall be as follows:
          a.   As an island at the end of a row of individual parking stalls, fifteen feet; for opposing
               rows of head-in parking stalls, thirty feet.
          b.   As a peninsula parallel to a row of parking spaces, fifteen feet.
          c.   As a median abutting a single row of parking stalls or as a divider median separating
               opposing rows of head-in parking stalls, equal to the length of each row.
     5.   Landscape Planter Width. The width of each landscape planter, measured from face of
          curb to face of curb, shall be no less than:
          a.   Eight feet for each island at the end of a row of parking stalls.
          b.   Nine feet for each peninsula within a row of parking stalls.
          c.    Eight feet, with consideration for vehicle overhang, where divider medians occur
               adjacent to head-in, and ten feet, with the same considerations, for divider medians
               separating opposing rows of head-in parking stalls. Where divider medians are
               improved with pedestrian walkways, the specified width is exclusive of the width of
               those walkways.
     6.   Vehicular Ingress/Egress Accommodation. That portion (eighteen inches minimum) of
          each landscape planter peninsula or island adjacent to a vehicular parking space shall
          be finished with a pervious surface suitable for temporary pedestrian use when exiting a
          vehicle. Alternatively, each such parking space may be provided at an additional
          eighteen-inch width and striped for pedestrian use. Stepping stones and graveled
          pathways shall be dispersed across and along median islands to minimize soil
          compaction and protect plant root zones.
     7.    Distribution of Landscaped Planters. Interior planting areas shall be located to most
          effectively accommodate stormwater runoff, provide positive drainage away from
          buildings, and provide maximum shade for large expanses of paving.
B.   Plant Quantity, Size, and Diversity in Parking Lot Landscaped Planters.
          l.   Minimum Number of Plants Required.
               a.   Within landscape planter islands and peninsulas.
                    i.     One shade tree and four shrubs for each fifteen-foot planter,
                    ii.    Two shade trees and eight shrubs per thirty-foot planter,
                    iii.   Three additional shrubs where lighting standards are located in the planter.
               b.   Within landscape planter medians.
                    i.     Two shade trees and eight shrubs for every thirty linear feet, together with
                           three additional shrubs for each lighting standard.
     2.   Minimum Size Requirements at Planting.
          a.    Trees. Trees required for installation within interior parking areas shall be no less
               than two-inch caliper in size at planting.



                                                                                              Page 265
          b.    Shrubs. No less what is customarily accommodated within a five gallon size
               container, in accordance with industry standards.
          c.   Groundcovers. No less than what is customarily accommodated within a one gallon
               size container in accordance with industry standards.
     3.   Tree and Shrub Distribution.
          a.   Within landscape planter islands and peninsulas.
               i.    In order to minimize damage by vehicles, trees shall not be planted closer than
                      three feet to top back of curb or exterior edge of depressed parking lot
                      landscaped planters.
               ii.   Shrubs shall be situated such that they remain within the confines of the planter
                     at maturity.
          b.   Within landscape planter medians.
               i.    Trees shall be planted such that they are dispersed from end to end of the
                     planter at twenty-five to thirty-foot intervals (flexibility in actual placement is
                     permitted).
               ii.   Shrubs shall be planted such that they assume as natural appearance as
                     possible (flexibility in actual placement is permitted) yet remain within the
                     confines of the planter at maturity.
     4.   Diversity of Plants. A mix of coniferous and deciduous trees and shrubs shall be provided
          in parking lot landscapes. Not less than forty percent of all trees and shrubs shall be
          coniferous except as warranted by site conditions.
C.    Mulch Required. Organic mulch shall be spread to a minimum depth of three inches and
     rock to at least two and one-half inches in depth in all parking lot landscaped planters.
     Appropriate measures shall be taken to retain the mulch within the planter and to renew it as
     necessary. Bare dirt is prohibited.
D.    Irrigation. Landscape planters within parking areas shall be irrigated with drip emitter or
     bubbler type irrigation systems only.
E.    Wheel Stops. Where vehicular parking stalls abut interior parking area landscaping that is
     not situated within and protected by a landscape planter, wheel stops shall be installed at a
     minimum of two feet from the edge of that landscape area.



19.77.070 - Screening of service and mechanical equipment.

A.    Screening Required. Service areas and on-grade mechanical equipment shall be screened
     from public view by plants, solid opaque fencing, berms, or a combination thereof. These
     elements shall also be sited to minimize their visibility and impact or enclosed so as to appear
     to be an integral part of the architectural design of the building. Site elements that are subject
     to this provision include but are not limited to the following:
     1.   Air conditioning units;
     2.   Electrical transformers;
     3.   Loading areas and docks;


                                                                                               Page 266
     4.    Mechanical equipment;
     5.    Outdoor storage areas;
     6.    Public utility transformers;
     7.    Service yards;
     8.    Telephone transformers;
     9.    Trash collection areas;
     10.    Trash dumpsters.



19.77.080 - Functional and aesthetic enhancements.

A.   Pedestrian and Vehicular Pathways. The design of pedestrian and vehicular travel ways for
     multiple-family, residential, retail commercial, office, public and quasi-public, and mixed use
     developments shall incorporate plantings and related landscape improvements for separation
     of pedestrian and vehicular traffic movements, improved pedestrian convenience and safety,
     and better-defined vehicular circulation and parking.
B.    Building Entrances, Drop-off and Pick-up, and Outdoor Dining Areas. Plantings and related
     landscape improvements shall be incorporated into the design of building entrances, drop-
     off and pick-up, and outdoor dining areas in order to: separate these areas from on-site
     vehicular circulation and parking facilities and from off-site traffic; enhance pedestrian
     comfort, convenience and safety; and facilitate outdoor dining with maximum insulation from
     vehicular traffic impacts.
C.     Drive-Through Service Facilities and Automatic Car Washes. Plantings and related
     landscape improvements shall be provided in conjunction with drive-through service facilities
     and automatic car washes in order to: introduce a more aesthetically pleasing approach to
     these types of vehicular activities on newly developed or redeveloped sites; better integrate
     these types of land uses into the established character of surrounding area improvements;
     and screen queued vehicles from the view of passing motorists on adjacent roadways.



19.77.090 - Landscaping of detention/retention basins and ponds.

      A planting area and related landscape improvements shall be incorporated into the design of
all lands to be used as detention/retention basins and ponds. Such landscaping may include
shade and ornamental trees, evergreens, shrubbery, hedges, turf, groundcover and other plant
materials and related landscape improvements.



19.77.100 - Landscape plan submittal requirements.                                                     Commented [CW73]: It is unfortunate that something as
                                                                                                       simple as a landscape ordinance has to be this complex.
A.   General Provisions.




                                                                                           Page 267
     1.   All applications for site development plan approval for land uses subject to this chapter
          shall be accompanied by a landscape plan package and water allowance worksheet
          prepared in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
     2.   Submitted landscape plan packages shall be prepared and certified for compliance with
          all requirements of this chapter by a landscape architect licensed to practice in the state
          of Utah under Title 58 of Utah Code. A landscape designer certified by the Utah Nursery
          and Landscape Association may submit a landscape plan package if the certified
          designer is employed by the contractor installing plantings of the specific project
          submitted.
     3.   All submitted irrigation plans shall be prepared by a qualified professional who is licensed
          under Utah Code Title 58 or by a person who is exempt from professional licensure
          requirements for the scope of work performed.
B.   Landscape Plan Package Contents. The information to be provided with the landscape plan
     package shall be presented in the following format:
     1.    Conceptual Planting Plan. The intent of the conceptual planting plan is to illustrate the
          overall design concept for landscaping and depict how it relates to the proposed
          development of the site. The conceptual planting plan shall describe the general
          landscape design intent and the water conservation concept statement of the proposed
          landscape improvements. At a minimum, the conceptual planting plan shall include the
          information as set forth in the following tables codified in this chapter.
     2.    Preliminary Plan. The intent of the preliminary plan is to illustrate the master landscape
          plan for the development. The landscape preliminary plan shall state how the proposal
          is consistent with the purposes and intent of these regulations as set forth at the
          beginning of this chapter. At a minimum, the preliminary landscape plan shall include the
          information set forth in the following tables codified in this chapter.
     3.    Final Plan. The intent of the final plan is to ensure each phase of the final landscape
          plan is consistent with the master landscape plan for the development and to illustrate
          the specific landscaping details for each phase. The final landscape plan shall describe
          the design intention and shall state how the proposal is consistent with this section,
          and/or with the preliminary landscape plan, if one was required. The final landscape plan
          shall be on a separate page from the final site development plan. The scale shall not be
          greater than one inch equals to fifty feet. At a minimum, the final landscape shall include
          the information set forth in the following tables.
     4.   Project Data.

PROJECT DATA SHEET

                          Information Required                            Sketch Preliminary Final

 The project title and countymetro township site development plan
 application number (the file number assigned to the development             X         X         X
        proposal that the landscape plan is associated with)

            Preparation date and issue/revision/date table                   X         X         X




                                                                                             Page 268
   The name, address, telephone number, fax, and e-mail of the
                                                                          X         X       X
                 applicant or authorized agent

   The name, address, telephone number, fax, and e-mail of the
    landscape architect, landscape designer, or other qualified
                                                                          X         X       X
 professional who prepared the landscape plan, together with their
           professional registration stamp (as required)

The landscape contractor to be used on the project, if known at the
                                                                          X         X       X
                       time of application

 Site vicinity and location map, including the street address and tax
                                                                          X         X       X
                 identification number of the property

                            Sheet index                                   X         X       X

 General landscape design intent statement including the general
character and location of proposed landscaping and open area and          X         X       X
            how it meets the intent of these regulations

                  Annual water budget worksheet                           X         X       X

          Soils analysis and proposed soils amendments                              X       X

          Signature block for landscape package approval                                    X




   5.   Grading and Drainage Plan.

GRADING AND DRAINAGE PLAN SHEET

                        Information Required                            Sketch Preliminary Final

 Scale, north arrow, site boundary including adjacent property lines
                                                                          X         X       X
                          and street names

               Existing and proposed adjacent uses                        X         X       X

 Existing and proposed private driveways, off-street parking areas,
                                                                          X         X       X
     patios, walkways, service areas and other paved surfaces



                                                                                        Page 269
 Existing and proposed buildings and structures (general locations)         X         X       X

           Existing and proposed utilities and easements                              X       X

                 Limits of proposed site disturbance                                  X       X

Existing and proposed building and structure finish floor elevations                          X

Spot elevations and contour lines at no more than one foot intervals
to determine high points and low points, positive drainage of paved                   X       X
          surfaces, wall heights and other vertical control

        Existing landscaping, including location, type and size             X         X       X

         Any existing landscaping proposed to be removed                    X         X       X




   6.    Landscape Planting Plan.

LANDSCAPE PLANTING PLAN SHEET

                        Information Required                              Sketch Preliminary Final

  Base plan consisting in information included on the grading and
                                                                            X         X       X
                           drainage plan

                 Limits of proposed site disturbance                        X         X       X

  General landscape improvements with planting symbols clearly
 drawn to indicate location and general plant category (deciduous
                                                                            X         X       X
     tree, evergreen tree, deciduous shrub, evergreen shrub,
                         groundcover, etc.)

 Legend of plant category symbols keyed to general plant material
 schedule indicating quantities of each plant category and listing of                 X       X
   plant species (include Latin name) included in each category

Typical detail drawings at one inch equals to twenty feet to illustrate
 perimeter treatment, buffering, typical front yard, and any special                  X       X
                     treatment areas on the site



                                                                                          Page 270
All hydrozone boundaries and total area within each hydrozone with
                                                                                       X         X
   each hydrozone clearly labeled high, moderate, low or very low

  Detailed landscape improvements with planting symbols clearly
   drawn to indicate each plant (deciduous tree, evergreen tree,                       X         X
      deciduous shrub, evergreen shrub, groundcover, etc.)

Detailed plant material schedule with abbreviation identification key,
quantity of each plant, botanical name, common name, hydrozone
                                                                                       X         X
   rating (high, moderate, low or very low), plant/container size,
                         spacing and notes

Define areas to be considered open areas and if they will be public
 or private. Indicate how open areas will be maintained including;
                                                                                       X         X
erosion control, re-vegetation, and weed management both during
                        and after construction

 Plant installation, mulching, tree staking, and any other applicable
                                                                                       X         X
                    planting and installation details

Soil preparation details including instructions to scarify planting pit
  bottom and sides and surface ground planes to promote root                           X         X
                  penetration in compacted soils

   Protection of existing plant and other site features to remain.
   Clearly identify the locations, species, size and condition of all
                                                                            X          X         X
     significant trees, each labeled as to its intended retention,
                          relocation or removal




   7.    Soils Report. A soils report is required in all cases. Special procedures or requirements
        shall be incorporated in the preparation and recommendations of the soils report where
        the past use of a site has resulted in soil contamination or where difficult soil or
        landscaping conditions are known to exist. The soils report shall describe:
        a.   The depth, composition, fertility, bulk density, and landscaping suitability of the top
             soil and subsoil at the site;
        b.   Soil class;
        c.   An approximate soil infiltration rate for site soils, either measured or derived from
             soil texture/infiltration rate tables. A range of infiltration rates shall be noted where
             appropriate;




                                                                                             Page 271
          d.   A measure of pH, electroconductivity (ERC), salt absorption ratio (SAR) and organic
               matter;
          e.   Recommendations for retention and re-use of viable top soil on the site together
               with such soil amendments as are necessary to ensure the health and sustainability
               of the landscaping to be planted.
         The final recommendations of the soils report shall be incorporated into the landscape
     planting plan and implemented with site planting operations.
     8.    Irrigation Plan. A detailed irrigation plan shall be drawn at the same scale as the
          landscape planting plan and shall reflect the requirements set forth in Section
          19.77.030(E)(2) of this chapter.
     9.   Irrigation Schedule. The irrigation schedule required in Section 19.74.030(E)(2)(k) of this
          chapter shall be provided in tabular form and shall specify:
          a.   Plant type (e.g., turf, trees, low water use plants);
          b.   Irrigation type (e.g., sprinklers, drip, bubblers);
          c.   Flow rate in gallons per minute;
          d.   Precipitation rate in inches per hour (sprinklers only);
          e.   Run times in minutes per day;
          f.   Number of water days per week;
          g.   Cycle time to avoid runoff.



19.77.110 - Landscape plan package acceptance.

A.    Standard Compliance Procedures. Submitted landscape plan documentation packages,
     water allowance worksheets, irrigation plans and irrigation schedules prepared in strict
     compliance with the requirements of this chapter shall be accepted upon certification of
     compliance with those requirements by the qualified professionals who prepared and
     submitted those plans. Final approval shall be as granted by the director upon completion of
     an internal or external review to assure ordinance compliance.
B.    Alternative Compliance Procedures. As authorized by this chapter, an alternative landscape        Commented [CW74]: This provision has come in handy
     and tree protection plan may be substituted in whole or in part for a landscape plan prepared      for those times when someone wants to propose a true
     in strict compliance with the chapters requirements.                                               desert-plant xeriscape type landscape plan.

     1.    Alternative Plan Preparation and Submittal. Alternative landscape plans shall be
          prepared and submitted in accordance with submittal requirements for a landscape plan
          package. The submittal shall clearly identify and discuss the modifications and
          alternatives proposed and the ways in which the plan will better accomplish the purposes
          and intent of this chapter than would a plan which strictly complies with the chapter's
          specified standards.
     2.    Alternative Plan Review Criteria. Certification of alternative plans for compliance with
          the purposes and intent of this chapter requires that the qualified professional who
          prepared the plans substantiate in writing how the alternative proposal meets or exceeds
          the degree of compliance that would be achieved through the strict application of



                                                                                            Page 272
          specified standards. In making such assertions the qualified professional who prepared
          the plans shall clearly demonstrate how the alternative plans will:
          a.   Provide exceptional preservation and incorporation of existing site vegetation;
          b.   Provide significant protection of natural areas and features;
          c.   Provide for maximum retention of existing tree canopy cover;
          d.   Create exceptional enhancement of neighborhood continuity and connectivity;
          e.   Provide for extensive accommodation of nonvehicular access and use;
          f.   Represent greater innovation in site design and plant use.
     3.    Alternative Plan Approval. Final approval shall be as granted by the director upon
          completion of an internal or external review to assure satisfaction of the above criteria.
C.    Plan Approval and Distribution. Copies of the professionally certified landscape plan
     package shall be provided for distribution to the following:
          a.   One copy to the property owner or site manager;
          b.   Two copies to the chief building official for attachment to approved building plans
               and use in completion of site inspections;
          c.   One copy to the director for retention in the site development application file.
D.    Plan Revisions. Any revisions to the landscape plan package shall be reviewed and
     approved in writing by the director prior to commencement of construction. Re-certification of
     compliance with the requirements of this chapter shall be provided by the qualified
     professionals who prepared and submitted the plan revisions. Site development plans that
     are substantially revised may require commensurate revisions to associated landscape
     plans.
E.    Phasing. Landscape plans for projects proposed for development in multiple phases shall
     clearly specify the landscape improvements required in conjunction with each phase.



19.77.120 - Installation of landscape improvements.                                                        Commented [CW75]: Again, not really sure why this level
                                                                                                           of detail is necessary.
A.   Irrigation System Installation.
     1.    Installer Qualifications. Irrigation Association (IA) certification shall be required for all
          contractor-installed landscape irrigation systems except where construction observation
          services are provided by a licensed landscape architect or other qualified professional
          under Title 58 of Utah Code.
     2.   License, Insurance and Bonding Requirements. All installers, designers, and auditors
          shall meet state and local license, insurance, and bonding requirements and be able to
          show proof of such.
B.   Plant Delivery and Installation.
     1.   Plants shall be protected during delivery to prevent leaf desiccation.
     2.   Upon delivery, unplanted trees, shrubs and other live plants shall be kept in shade, well
          protected with soil, mulch or other acceptable material and appropriately watered. Plants
          that have died or show signs of serious deterioration prior to planting shall be replaced.


                                                                                              Page 273
     3.    All trees and shrubs shall be planted in such a manner as to ensure their survival. This
          shall include the planting of intact balls, planting at proper depth, properly backfilling,
          mulching and watering, and construction of a planting saucer. Newly planted trees shall
          be provided a plant-free mulched area with a minimum radius of four feet around the
          trunks in order to expedite tree root establishment.
     4.    Any rope or wire binding the ball shall be cut prior to the conclusion of backfilling
          operations to prevent girdling of the tree trunk.
     5.   If a nonbiodegradable material is used around the ball, it shall be completely removed
          prior to backfilling.
     6.    In order to protect plantings from traffic, de-icing salts, and snow plowing operations,
          landscaped areas with tree or shrub plantings within six feet of a paved vehicle parking
          area or access way shall be raised above such areas by use of curbing or edging or,
          where depressed for stormwater collection and aquifer recharge, clearly posted for
          protection during periods of inclement weather.
C.    Excavation. Site excavation shall be accomplished in accordance with industry standards
     and applicable ordinance requirements.



19.77.130 - Construction inspection and compliance requirements.

A.    Construction Observation and Certification of Compliance. Construction observation and
     monitoring of all required landscape improvements shall be provided by a licensed landscape
     architect so as to ensure compliance with the approved landscape plans for the site.
B.    Right to Inspect. The director reserves the right to perform site inspections at any time and
     to require corrective measures regarding the installation of site landscaping and irrigation
     system improvements found not to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
C.   The director shall field-verify landscaping improvements prior to final project approval.



19.77.140 - Post-construction verification of compliance.                                               Commented [CW76]: This puts the responsibility partially
                                                                                                        on the shoulders of the applicant to inspect and verify
A.    Single-Phase Projects. Following construction and prior to issuing an approval for occupancy      compliance.
     a landscape architect or other qualified professional shall complete a site inspection of all
     installed site landscaping improvements and provide written certification of compliance with
     approved plans. The director shall field-verify landscaping improvements prior to final project
     approval. Certification of compliance with approved irrigation plans shall be provided by the
     licensed professional under whose construction observation the irrigation system was
     installed.
B.     Multi-Phase Projects. Projects approved for development in multiple phases shall be
     inspected and certified to be in compliance with the approved plans for each respective phase
     prior to the occupancy or use of the development associated with that phase. Permits shall
     not be issued for subsequent phases without prior director approval until this requirement has
     been satisfied.




                                                                                            Page 274
19.77.150 - Certificate of substantial completion.

     Upon completion of all required landscaping improvements the property owner shall complete
a certificate of substantial completion for submittal to the director. A disclosure document shall be
filed with the county recorder's office clearly indicating that the property is subject to the
requirements of this chapter and that any re-landscaping by the present or future property owners
shall be in accordance with the certified landscape plan for the property. Proof of recordation shall
be provided prior to final land use approval.



19.77.160 - Long-term viability of established landscapes.

A.     Plant Maintenance. The owner, tenant and any agent shall be jointly and severally
     responsible for the maintenance of all landscaping in good condition and free from refuse
     and debris so as to present a healthy, neat and orderly appearance. Where applicable an
     adequately funded Homeowner's or Property Owner's Association shall assume and be held
     liable for such responsibilities. In the latter instance, provisions for long-term maintenance of
     required landscaping in the event of dissolution of the Homeowner's or Property Owner's
     Association shall be provided prior to landscape plan acceptance.
B.    Plant Survival. All plant materials shall be regularly maintained in a healthy condition and
     shall be guaranteed for survival for two years from planting. During this period, each plant
     shall show at least seventy-five percent healthy growth and shall have the natural
     characteristic of the plant of its species. Any plant found dead or unsatisfactory by the director
     during the guarantee period shall be replaced until it has lived through the required two-year
     survival period.



19.77.170 - Completion of and submittal of water performance audit.                                       Commented [CW77]: This is to confirm compliance with
                                                                                                          the maximum water usage provisions of 19.77.030.
      Following construction and prior to issuing an approval for occupancy, a water audit shall be
conducted by an IA certified landscape irrigation auditor. Irrigation system improvements required
to achieve compliance with the requirements of this chapter shall be provided by the property
owner as necessary. The water performance audit will verify that the irrigation system complies
with the minimum standards of this chapter. The minimum efficiency required for the irrigation
system is sixty percent for the distribution efficiency for all fixed spray systems and seventy
percent distribution efficiency for all rotor systems. Copies of the auditor's certification of
compliance shall be provided to the director for retention in the project file as well as to the
irrigation system designer, installer, and owner/developer of the property. Compliance with this
provision is required before the countymetro township will issue a letter of final acceptance.



19.77.180 - Definitions.

    For the purposes of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings herein
prescribed:




                                                                                              Page 275
    "Annual water budget" means the target maximum amount of irrigation water applied to a
landscaped area measured in gallons per square foot per year.
    "Automatic controller" means a timer, capable of operating valve stations to set the days and
length of time of a water application.
    "Backflow" means any unwanted flow of used or nonpotable water or substance from any
domestic, industrial or institutional piping system into the pure, potable water distribution system.
The direction of flow under these conditions is in the reverse direction from that intended by the
system and normally assumed by the owner of the system.
    "Backflow prevention device" means a safety device that prevents the flow of water from the
water distribution system back to the water source. Compliance with applicable health and water
quality regulations is required.
     "Bubbler" means an irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by "flooding" the
planted area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or short
stream pattern.
    "Drip emitter" means a drip irrigation fitting that delivers water slowly at the root zone of the
plant, measured in gallons per hour.
    "Drought-tolerant plant" means a plant that can survive without irrigation throughout the year
once established, although supplemental water may be desirable during drought periods for
improved appearance and disease resistance.
     "Establishment period" means the first three hundred sixty-five days of growing season after
installing the plant in the landscape.
    "Evaporation [E]" means water movement from a wet soil or plant surface that does not pass
through the plant. Evaporation is the physical process by which a liquid is transformed to the
gaseous state, which in irrigation generally is restricted to the change of water from liquid to vapor.
Occurs from plant leaf surface, ground surface, water surface and sprinkler spray.
    "Evapotranspiration [ET]" means the quantity of water evaporated from adjacent soil surfaces
and transpired by plants during a specific time, expressed in inches per day, month or year.
    "FPS" means feet per second.
     "Flow rate" means the rate at which water flows through pipes and valves (gallons per minute
or cubic feet per second).
     "Grading plan" means a plan that shows all finish grades, spot elevations as necessary and
existing and new contours with the developed landscaped area.
    "Groundcover" means material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over the
ground that can be maintained at a height not more than twelve inches.
     "Hardscape" means elements of the landscape such as sidewalks, pathways, benches,
patios, decks, seating areas, drives, and areas for vehicular parking typically constructed from
nonliving materials like concrete, boulders, brick, blacktop and lumber.
     "Hydrozone" means the grouping of plants with similar water requirements so that they can
be irrigated with a common zone.
     "Infiltration rate" means the rate of water entry into the soil expressed as a depth of water per
unit of time (inches per hour).




                                                                                              Page 276
    "Irrigated landscaped area" means all portions of a development site to be improved with
planting and irrigation. Natural open space areas shall not be included in the irrigated landscaped
area.
     "Irrigation contractor" means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association
(IA) to install irrigation systems.
     "Irrigation designer" means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation Association (IA)
to prepare irrigation system designs, and/or a landscape architect.
      "Irrigation plan" means a plan that shows the components of the irrigation system with water
meter size, backflow prevention, precipitation rates, flow rate and operating pressure for each
irrigation circuit, together with identification of all irrigation equipment.
     "Landscape architect" means a person who is licensed to practice landscape architecture by
the state of Utah.
    "Landscape designer" means a person who has been certified by the Utah Nursery and
Landscape Association (UNLA) and who prepares landscape plans as authorized by Utah Code.
    "Landscape irrigation auditor" means a person who has been certified by the Irrigation
Association to conduct a landscape irrigation audit.
     "Landscape plan documentation package" means an assemblage of graphics and written
materials including criteria, specifications, and detailed plans to arrange and modify the effects of
natural features such as plantings, ground and water forms, circulation, walks and other features
to comply with the provisions of this chapter. The landscape plan documentation package shall
include a project data sheet, a planting plan, an irrigation plan, a grading plan, a soils report, a
landscape water allowance, and an irrigation schedule.
     "Landscape water allowance" means, for design purposes, the upper limit of annual applied
water for the established landscaped area. It is based upon the local reference evapotranspiration
rate, the ET0 adjustment factor and the size of the landscaped area.
     "Landscape zone" means a portion of the landscaped area having plants with similar water
needs, areas with similar microclimate (i.e., slope, exposure, wind, etc.) and soil conditions, and
areas that will be similarly irrigated. A landscape zone can be served by one irrigation valve, or a
set of valves with the same schedule.
     "Landscaped area" means an entire parcel of real property minus that area encompassed by
building footprints, driveways, and the nonirrigated portions of parking lots. Water features and
areas improved with walkways, benches, seating areas and similar improvements are included in
the calculation of the landscaped area.
     "Landscaping" means any combination of living plants, such as trees, shrubs, vines, ground
covers, flowers, or grass; natural features such as rock, stone, or bark chips; and structural
features, including but not limited to, walks, drives, benches, seating areas, fountains, reflecting
pools, outdoor art work, screen walls and fences.
     "Maximum extent feasible" means no prudent, practical, and feasible alternative exists, and
all possible planning to minimize potential harm has been undertaken. Economic considerations
may be taken into account but shall not be the overriding factor in determining maximum extent
feasible.
     "Mulch" means any organic material such as leaves, bark, wood chips, straw, or inorganic
material such as crushed stone or gravel, or other materials left loose and applied to the soil
surface for the beneficial purpose of weed suppression and the conservation of soil moisture.


                                                                                            Page 277
    "Pervious surface" means a layer through which water and air may freely migrate.
     "Planting plan" means a plan that clearly and accurately identifies the location and species
of new and existing trees, shrubs, groundcovers, and other plants on a site.
    "Precipitation rate" means the depth of water applied to a given area, usually measured in
inches per hour.
      "Rain shut-off device" means a device wired to the automatic controller that shuts off the
irrigation system when it rains.
    "Reference evapotranspiration rate or ET0" means the rate of evapotranspiration from an
extensive surface cooling season green grass cover of uniform height of twelve cm., actively
growing, completely shading the ground, and not short of water.
     "Runoff" means irrigation water that is not absorbed by the soil or landscape area to which it
is applied and which flows onto other areas.
     "Soils report" means a report by a soils laboratory indicating soil type(s), composition, bulk
density, infiltration rates, pH, electroconductivity (ERC), salt absorption ratio (SAR) and organic
matter for the top soil and subsoil of a given site. The soils report also includes recommendations
for soil amendments.
    "Spray sprinkler" means an irrigation head that sprays water through a nozzle.
    "Station" means an area served by one valve.
    "Stream sprinkler" means an irrigation head that projects water through a gear rotor in single
or multiple streams.
     "Street tree" means a shade or ornamental tree planted along public or private streets and
drives to provide shade to reduce heating of pavements, provide spatial definition and visual
enhancement.
     "Supervision (of an employee)" means that a qualified licensed professional is responsible
for and personally reviews, corrects when necessary, and approves work performed by any
employee under the direction of the licensed professional.
    "Turf" means a surface layer of earth containing mowed grass with its roots.
    "Valve" means a device used to control the flow of water in an irrigation system.
   "Water audit" means an on-site survey and measurement of irrigation equipment and
management efficiency, and the generation of recommendations to improve efficiency.
    "Water-conserving plant" means a plant that can generally survive with available rainfall once
established although supplemental irrigation may be needed or desirable during spring and
summer months.
    "Zone" means a landscape zone.




                                                                                          Page 278
CHAPTER 19.78 - PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS                                                              Commented [CW78]: This chapter was revised recently
                                                                                                       at the insistence of the Millcreek Township Planning
                                                                                                       Commission (before they became a city). It has a limited
                                                                                                       view of what a P.U.D. should look and feel like based on a
                                                                                                       Millcreek perspective.

19.78.010 - Purpose.

    The purpose of a planned unit development (PUD) is:
    1.    To provide a high quality living environment, and to utilize and incorporate natural
         features in the land development design.
    2.    To provide a more efficient use of the land and the preservation of greater proportions
         of open space for recreation and visual use than is otherwise provided for in the zoning
         regulations.
    3.    To provide good and compatible neighborhood and housing design by utilizing a variety
         of dwelling types and site arrangement plans to allow for greater flexibility and diversity
         in the physical pattern of the development.
    4.   To provide developments compatible with existing residential uses while maintaining a
         harmonious environment within the community.
    5.   To create mixed use areas designed to be beneficial to the neighborhood.
    6.    To ensure substantial compliance with the intent of this chapter related to the public
         health, safety and general welfare, while securing the efficient use of the land for
         residential, or a combination of commercial and residential development.
    It is the intent of this chapter that the development plan for a planned unit development shall
be prepared by a designer(s) having professional competence in urban planning.



19.78.020 - Applicability and area requirements.                                                       Commented [CW79]: This section probably needs to
                                                                                                       clarify how much flexibility is allowed for residential
     A planned unit development is a conditional use that is only allowed for residential uses,        development. In other words, if a proposal does not exceed
except as provided in Section 19.78.040, and in zones that allow residential uses. The provisions      the maximum density in the zone, can all of the units be
in this chapter shall govern over the chapters relating to these other zones and other chapters in     attached even though the zone is “single-family
                                                                                                       residential?”
this title, with the exception of the FCOZ ordinance, Chapters 19.72 and 19.73, and the RCOZ
ordinance, Chapter 19.71. A planned unit development in these zones shall have a minimum area
of three acres, with the following exceptions:
    1.    Existing condominium developments that cannot be sold or refinanced without the
         common area adjoining the homes in the development being divided up into individual
         lots that include the adjoining homes, and where these newly created lots would not
         qualify as traditional subdivision lots under countymetro township ordinance. In such
         cases, the newly created lots may qualify as a planned unit development if the
         development is at least one acre in size. Such a development shall be exempt from the
         provisions of this chapter, except Sections 19.78.090—19.78.130 relating to review of
         the development.
    2.   Developments abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan shall
         have a minimum area of one acre. To qualify as a development that is abutting or
         contiguous to a corridor, said development shall have a minimum frontage of the sum of


                                                                                           Page 279
         the required minimum lot width of two lots as determined by the current zoning
         designation.



19.78.030 - Development requirements.

    The following are required for all developments:
    1.    Ownership. The property shall be in single or corporate ownership at the time of
         application, or the subject of an application filed jointly by all owners of the property.
    2.   Open Space. Common and private open space shall be provided and shall cover no less            Commented [CW80]: There was a concerted effort to
         than forty percent of the gross site area. Common open space shall be provided in the          clarify what is meant by open space in this new PUD
         amount of at least twenty percent of the gross site area. For purposes of this chapter,        ordinance.
         gross site area is defined as the total area of a planned unit development excluding
         anything in the public right-of-way.
     The required common open space shall be land areas that are not occupied by buildings,
dwellings, structures, parking areas, streets, public park strips, curb-gutter-sidewalk, driveways,
or alleys and shall be accessible by all residents of the development. Buildings erected for the
purpose of providing an amenity may be included as open space. Said open space may be an
area of land or water set aside, or reserved for use by residents of the development, including an
expanse of lawn, trees, plants, fully accessible landscaped roof areas, or other natural areas.
Common open space also includes common walkways (but not curb-gutter-sidewalk), formal
picnic areas, and recreational areas. Common open space may be distributed throughout the
development and need not be in a single large area. Common open space may include sensitive
areas, such as areas with thirty percent or greater slope, fault zones, flood plains, high water
tables, and wetlands, if they have been designed as an integral element of the project.
     Private open space is that space which is provided for each dwelling unit for personal use.
Private open space is typically located immediately adjacent to or attached to the dwelling unit it
is designed to serve and is for the exclusive use of the residents of the dwelling unit. Landscaped
roof areas, balconies, or decks attached to individual units are considered private open space
and are not to be calculated as part of required common open space.
     The planning commission may reduce the open space requirements of this section in order
to accommodate a density bonus provided for in this chapter.
    3.   Interior Streets. The design of public and private streets within a development shall follow
         countymetro township standards for roadway development as defined by the
         countymetro township transportation engineer. Private streets shall be subject to the
         same inspections and construction standards as required for public streets. The
         countymetro township shall be granted a utility easement of the entire interior street
         system in a development project. All private streets shall be conveyed to a private
         association.
    4.    Garbage and Recycling. The development shall be designed to accommodate and
         efficiently manage the collection, storage, and removal of garbage in harmony with the
         neighborhood so as to minimize detrimental effects of the collection, storage, and
         removal on any residence within the development or abutting neighborhoods. If
         dumpster enclosures are provided for the development, no refuse dumpster or dumpster
         enclosure structure shall be located closer than ten feet to any perimeter property line.
         Enclosure structures must have a minimum of three sides that reflect or emulate the


                                                                                            Page 280
         materials, design, and quality of the overall development. All developments shall provide
         recycling services.
    5.   Parking. The following minimum parking shall be provided for all multi-family projects        Commented [CW81]: Parking and guest parking has been
         under this chapter:                                                                           sometimes problematic in PUDs, so this section attempts to
                                                                                                       clarify the issue.
         a.     Table of Parking Ratios.

                     One bedroom unit                              1.5 parking spaces per unit

                Two or more bedroom units                          2.0 parking spaces per unit

                                                             0.33 parking spaces per unit (min. of
                   Guest parking spaces
                                                                              6)

    Storage parking spaces for recreational vehicle
                                                                          Not Allowed
                       storage




         b.      The parking requirements identified in this section supersede other parking
                requirements in this title.
         c.     All parking areas, covered or open, except garages, shall have a landscaped buffer
                in accordance with Chapter 19.77, Water Efficient Landscape Design and
                Development Standards.
         d.      Developments offering the amenities listed below are entitled to the applicable
                parking reductions. These reductions are not mandatory, but if they are chosen, are
                cumulative. The planning commission may further modify the required parking with
                support of a traffic study.

Eligible Unit Parking Reductions

                                                                                    Reduction
                                    Amenity
                                                                                    (stalls/unit)

                                                                                 0.05 per car share
                   Car Sharing (minimum 100 dwelling units)
                                                                                      vehicle

              Bicycle Lockers/Storage (1 space per unit required)                       0.05

                 Bicycle Share (on-site self-serve bike station)                        0.05

              Development-supplied transit passes for all residents                     0.15




                                                                                            Page 281
Proximity of development within ¼ mile of a rail or Bus Rapid Transit
                                                                                    0.20
                          (BRT) station

Proximity of development within ½ mile of a rail or Bus Rapid Transit
                                                                                    0.10
                          (BRT) station

                            Senior Housing                                          0.20

          Housing for students (< .25 miles from campus)                            0.10

 For Mixed-Use PUDs (19.78.040), shared parking that allows both
                                                                                    0.20
       customers and residents to park in the same spaces.




     e.   Parking is prohibited within approved fire access and turn-around facilities.
     f.   Garages are encouraged.
          (1)     Garage parking, if used, shall have a minimum unobstructed size of twenty-
                two feet wide by twenty feet in length, or twenty feet wide by twenty-two feet in
                length. Single-car garages are also permitted and shall have a minimum
                unobstructed size of ten feet wide by twenty-two feet in length, or eleven feet
                wide by twenty feet in length.
          (2)     Covered parking, if used, shall be placed in locations adjacent or convenient
                to the buildings that they are intended to serve.
          (3)     Tandem spaces may be allowed with a minimum size requirement of twenty
                feet long by nine feet wide per parking space, up to a maximum of two
                contiguous spaces per unit.
          (4)     Tandem spaces may be allowed with a minimum size requirement of twenty
                feet long by nine feet wide per parking space, up to a maximum of two
                contiguous spaces per unit.
     g.    Underground parking. Installation of underground parking adequate to meet fifty
          percent of the parking requirements of this section excluding guest parking, shall
          receive a twenty percent density bonus for the planned unit development.
6.   Building Materials. Exterior materials of a durable or resilient nature such as brick, stone,   Commented [CW82]: These next several sections are an
     stucco, prefinished panel, composite materials, or other materials of similar quality,          attempt to putting specific design criteria into the PUD
     hardiness, and low maintenance characteristics shall be used. No single material is             code, based on the Millcreek planning commission’s
     allowed to exceed fifty percent on street-facing facades. Other materials may be                viewpoint. This may or may not be the direction Copperton
                                                                                                     wants to go.
     considered for soffits, or as an accent or architectural feature. Twenty-five year
     guarantee, architectural shingles and/or other longer lasting roof materials are required.
7.    Landscaping on Public Right-of-Way. With the exception of Forestry Zones, where a
     development is adjacent to a public right-of-way, a permanent open space shall be
     required along any front, side, or rear yard adjacent to said right-of-way. This area shall
     be kept free of buildings and structures (except fences, as per Chapter 19.77.050, and


                                                                                         Page 282
      approved by the planning commission), and permanently maintained with street trees
      and other landscaping, screened or protected by natural features, as per Chapter 19.77.
      If such areas are the result of double frontage lot designs with inadequate access to the
      street, such areas shall be landscaped as per Chapter 19.77 with a five-foot landscaped
      area. Aesthetic entrance features are encouraged. Additional landscape treatments or
      buffers may also be required with width and landscaping specifications as per Chapter
      19.77.
8.     Perimeter Fencing. With the exception of Forestry Zones, fencing around the perimeter
      of all developments shall be provided. Acceptable fencing materials include
      architecturally designed brick, stone, or block, or pre-cast concrete. Fencing with
      materials using composite products, wrought iron, wood, or vinyl may be allowed with a
      minimum two-foot wide, six-foot tall brick or stone pillar spaced every ten feet on center.
      Unless otherwise allowed by the planning commission, exterior fencing along a public
      right-of-way shall be limited to brick, stone, or block, or pre-cast concrete and be setback
      a minimum of five feet from the property line to allow for a landscaping buffer designed
      in accordance with Chapter 19.77 to soften long expanses of walls. Interior fencing shall
      comply with Section 19.78.030(11)(f).
9.    Interior Street Lights. With the exception of Forestry Zones, street and pedestrian lighting
      for streets on the interior of the PUD is required. All lighting fixtures shall be directed
      downward with mechanisms to prevent dark sky illumination. The applicant shall submit
      a plan which indicates the type and location of lights in relation to the development and
      designed for pedestrian safety. Minimum average foot-candles for local residential roads
      (thirty-five feet maximum) shall be 0.3, and shall be 0.5 for residential collector roads
      (thirty-six feet—forty-five feet).
10.     Signage. Only low profile signs with a maximum size of fifty square feet, and five feet
      in height are allowed. No temporary signs are allowed other than for sale or rent signs
      with a maximum of six square feet in area per side. Only three such signs are allowed
      per three hundred feet of frontage. The size, location, design and nature of signs, if any,
      and the intensity and direction of any associated lighting shall be detailed in the
      application, and, except as provided in this chapter, shall be consistent with the
      characteristics of the community and Chapter 19.82, Signs.
11.     Site Plan. All developments shall be guided by a total design plan in which the following
      development standards may be varied to allow density bonuses, and flexibility and
      creativity in site design and building location. The planning commission may require such
      arrangements of structures, open spaces, landscaping, buffering, and access within the
      site development plan so that adjacent properties will not be adversely affected. The
      following criteria shall be used by the planning commission principally to assure the
      design objectives of this section are met.
      a.    Density. Subject to the following density bonuses, the density allowed for a
           development shall be no greater than that allowed in the zone in which it is located.
           Density shall be calculated using only net developable acreage. A density bonus in
           the following amounts is allowed if either or both of the following conditions exist:
           (1)     For developments with underground parking that is adequate to meet the
                 parking requirements of this chapter excluding guest parking, a density bonus
                 of twenty percent is allowed pursuant to 19.78.030(5)(g); and/or
           (2)    For developments within one-quarter mile (improved walking distance) of a rail
                 or Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) station, a density bonus of twenty percent is


                                                                                         Page 283
           allowed. For developments within one-half mile (improved walking distance) of
           a rail or BRT station, but greater than one-quarter mile, a density bonus of ten
           percent is allowed.
b.   Maximum Height. For the purpose of this chapter, building height is to be measured
     from the lowest point of original grade to the highest ridge.
     (1)     For any PUD adjacent to an R-1, R-2, R-4, A-1, or A-2 zone ("residential
           zone"), the maximum height for structures on the perimeter of the PUD
           adjoining said zones shall be twenty-eight feet. The maximum height of all other
           structures in such a PUD shall be thirty-five feet. PUDs with one building only,
           are allowed a rooftop garden or patio provided the rooftop garden or patio has
           a minimum setback of seventy-five feet from the property line. For purposes of
           this chapter, a structure on the perimeter is defined as any structure within fifty
           feet of the property line of the PUD.
           (a)    The height of buildings along the perimeter of a planned unit development
                 adjoining a residential zone may be increased to the maximum height
                 allowed in the underlying zone by one foot increments, with each additional
                 one foot height increment requiring an additional one foot in setback from
                 the perimeter (see figure 1 below for graphical rendering).
     (2)     The height of structures in all other planned unit developments shall conform
           to the otherwise applicable ordinances.
     (3)    At the discretion of the planning commission, height for dwelling structures
           along corridors as defined in the general plan and not adjoining a residential
           zone, may be increased by an additional five feet to accommodate a density
           bonus provided for in this chapter.
     (4)     Notwithstanding the above, the planning commission may at its discretion
           reduce or increase the otherwise stated maximum heights if mitigation is
           warranted, but only in cases where unusual topographical or other exceptional
           conditions or circumstances exist, such as the height of surrounding buildings.




                                                                                     Page 284
Figure 1. An illustration of height allowance as described in 11.b.1.a. above when approved by
the planning commission, where for every foot increase in height requires a foot increase in
minimum setback. This provision is designed to soften the impact to adjacent properties while
allowing for increases in height where appropriate.

        c.   Perimeter Setbacks. Buildings (including covered decks or covered patios, or decks
             or patios in excess of eighteen inches above existing grade) located on lots on the
             perimeter (excluding the public frontage defined in Chapter 19.78.040 of the
             development), shall have not less than a fifteen-foot setback from the perimeter lot
             line, and shall have a setback from a right-of-way as prescribed by the underlying
             zone and Chapter 19.77. Otherwise, no specific yard, setback, or lot size
             requirement is imposed by this chapter. However, the purpose and design objectives
             of this chapter must be complied with in the final development plan, and the planning
             commission may require specific setbacks within all or a portion of the development
             to maintain harmony with the existing character of the neighborhood.
        d.    Site Calculations. Specific calculations which address the percentage of open
             space, impervious versus pervious surfaces, and site improvements shall be
             submitted by the applicant with all project applications.
        e.    Traffic Circulation. Points of primary vehicular access to the development shall be
             designed to provide smooth traffic flow with controlled turning movements and
             minimum hazards to vehicular, pedestrian, and bicycle traffic. Adequate emergency
             vehicle access shall be provided. Internal circulation systems shall include
             pedestrian paths, and may include bicycle paths, preferably separated from
             vehicular traffic. Where recreational facilities exist or are planned adjacent to the
             proposed development, such pedestrian and bicycle paths shall connect to these
             facilities.
        f.   Privacy. Each development shall provide reasonable visual and acoustical privacy
             for dwelling units. Fences, walks, barriers, landscaping, and sound reducing


                                                                                         Page 285
               construction techniques shall be used as appropriate to enhance the privacy of its
               occupants, the screening of objectionable views or uses, and the reduction of noise.
          g.    Sidewalks. With the exception of forestry zones, as required elements of a
               development, interior sidewalks shall be installed to serve the units and connect to
               the public street.
          h.   Utilities. All utilities shall be located underground, except as may be provided for in
               state law. Utility equipment shall be screened from view and preferably, not fronting
               on a public street.
          i.   Private outdoor spaces. Each residential unit shall be required to have an outdoor
               patio/rear yard space with a minimum of one hundred square feet, or a balcony with
               a fifty square foot minimum.
    12.     Desirable Amenities. Amenities that are identified in the Salt Lake CountyCopperton
          Metro Township Recreation and Open Space Standards Policy shall be installed in
          accordance with that policy. Where conflicts exist with this chapter and the Salt Lake
          CountyCopperton Metro Township Recreation and Open Space Standards Policy,
          requirements identified in this chapter shall supersede.
    13.     Miscellaneous. Installation of xeriscaping is encouraged as an alternative to excessive
          lawn areas or other landscaping treatments that excessively consume water. Low
          impact/water retention development techniques are encouraged to manage stormwater
          onsite including but not limited to planter boxes, rain gardens, and bioswales in the open
          spaces.
     Parking areas, service areas, buffers, entrances, exits, yards, courts, landscaping, graphics,
and lighting for both residential and non-residential development shall be designed as integrated
portions of the total development and shall project the residential character.



19.78.040 - Planned unit development mixed-use.                                                           Commented [CW83]: The only way to obtain PUD
                                                                                                          approval for a non-residential component is to have “mixed
     In a planned unit development, vertical mixed-use is allowed in zones that allow both                use” which as a residential element and commercial
residential and commercial and/or office uses, provided it meets the following requirements, in           element combined into the same building.
addition to the other requirements in this chapter. For purposes of this section, vertical mixed-use
means commercial or office uses sharing the same building as residential uses.
    1.    The property is abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan, or
          major or minor arterial ("street").
    2.    Commercial uses shall only be allowed on the first floor of buildings fronting on the street.
          Office uses shall only be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on the
          street. Entrances to the first floor of these buildings shall front on the street. Windows
          shall make up at least fifty percent of street-facing facades of these floors. These floors
          shall have architectural differentiation from the other floors in the building.
    3.    Parking is not allowed between the building(s) and the street.
    4.     The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet, except as provided in subsection (E), and
          the side and rear yards shall be twenty feet minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have
          two front yards.




                                                                                              Page 286
     5.    The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent of the front elevation of
          the building(s) must be built within ten feet of the build-to-line or as approved by the
          planning commission. A build-to-line is defined as the line at which construction of a
          building façade is to occur on a lot, running parallel to the front property line, and ensuring
          a uniform (or more or less even) building façade line on the street.
     6.   Landscaping along the street shall comply with this chapter and Chapter 19.77.
     7.   Signage for commercial or office uses shall be limited to signs on the building(s) that
          comply with Chapter 19.82.



19.78.050 - Maintenance of common facilities.

1.    A development shall be approved subject to the submission and recordation of legal
     instruments setting forth a plan or manner of permanent care and maintenance of all common
     open space and other facilities provided in the final development plan.
2.   Terms in the final development plan governing maintenance of common open space and
     other facilities shall comply with applicable provisions of the Utah Condominium Ownership
     Act, Title 57-8-101, et seq., or the Utah Community Association Act, Title 57-8a-101, et seq.



19.78.060 - Review process.                                                                                 Commented [CW84]: The next several sections are about
                                                                                                            the review and approval process.
1.   Pre-Submittal Development Review. To help expedite review of a development proposal,
     prior to submitting a complete application for development, persons interested in undertaking
     development shall meet with a member(s) of the planning staff for a planner/applicant
     meeting, to become acquainted with the substantive and procedural requirements of this
     chapter.
2.   Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Staff creates, revises, and adheres to a development
     review standard operating procedure, to assist in the management and processing of
     applications. Applicants are encouraged to obtain a copy of the current SOP from planning
     and development services staff, and to seek guidance with respect to the review and
     understanding of the development review SOP from staff.
3.    Application. An application for a development must be submitted to planning and
     development services. As each development application is different and unique, application
     documents may vary with respect to content and need for specific reports and/or studies.
     Consultation with staff and examination of the development review SOP will guide the
     applicant through the review process and identify all submittal documents that will be required
     to formalize a complete application.
     a.   Site plan that satisfies the requirements of Section 19.78.030(11).
     b.   Landscaping plan. A landscape plan is to be prepared in accordance with Chapter 19.77
          of this title. Staff can ask for justification of elements included in the landscape plan.
     c.   Architectural building elevations. The location and floor area of all existing and proposed
          buildings, structures, and other improvements including heights, types of dwelling units,
          non-residential structures including commercial facilities, preliminary elevations and



                                                                                               Page 287
          architectural renderings of typical structures and improvements, shall be prepared by a
          licensed architect or other qualified professional.
     d.   Lighting plan.
     e.   Subdivision plat.



19.78.070 - Preliminary review.

      When a complete application has been accepted by staff, reviews completed by staff and
related agencies, and subsequent comments identified by staff and substantially addressed by
the applicant, the application is scheduled for a community council meeting and a public hearing
before the appropriate planning commission for their review and decision. Additional adjustments,
revisions, or re-submittals may be required during this process to identify all concerns related to
conformance with the intent of this chapter. Failure to submit complete and consistent information
will result in written notification to the applicant that the review cannot proceed further until all
required, necessary, and requested information is submitted.



19.78.080 - Planning commission review.

     When preliminary review of the application has been determined to be complete and in
compliance with all requirements, the plans and preliminary plat together with all supporting
information will be forwarded to the planning commission for review. If the property is to be
subdivided, all requirements set forth in Title 18, Subdivisions, must be met.
    In accordance with Chapter 19.05.040 and Utah Code § 17-27a10-9a-506, the planning
commission shall review the proposed development plan to hear and receive public input and to
determine if all reasonably anticipated detrimental effects have been substantially mitigated. The
planning commission may require additional studies or analyses to enable it to determine how
impacts should be addressed and may establish reasonable conditions of approval to address
those anticipated impacts, as per Chapter 19.84.060.



19.78.090 - Validity of preliminary review.

1.    Once the planning commission determines that preliminary review is complete, the
     preliminary plat or approved site plan is valid (twelve months for the preliminary plat and
     twelve months for the site plan). The division director may grant a one-year extension of the
     preliminary plat or approved site plan, provided the plat still complies with all applicable
     ordinances.
2.    If a PUD subdivision will be recorded in phases, a final plat for the first phase must be
     recorded within one year of the initial planning commission approval or one-year extension
     thereof, the validity of the unrecorded portions of the approved preliminary plat will extend for
     one year from the recording date of the plat for the previous phase. Extensions of time beyond
     three years from the date of initial approval require review and approval of the planning
     commission prior to the then current expiration of the preliminary plat.


                                                                                             Page 288
19.78.100 - Post-planning commission approval.

     After completing the preliminary review by the departments, agencies, and planning
commission, the applicant shall submit a final site plan and preliminary and final subdivision plats
together with all supporting documents which comply with all requirements, corrections, additions,
etc. required by the departments, agencies, and planning commission to the planning and
development services division (hereinafter known as the "development plan").
    1.    The planning and development services division, along with the other reviewing
         departments and agencies, shall review the proposed development plan to verify
         compliance with all requirements, corrections, additions, etc.
    2.    After such review, the item may be scheduled for review by the planning commission
         upon referral by the division director or at the request of the planning commission. The
         final development plan shall include all of the information required in the preliminary
         development plan in its finalized detailed form.



19.78.110 - Amendments to the development plan.

     The division director or designee may authorize minor changes in the location, siting, or
character of buildings and structures if required to resolve an engineering or other technical issue,
or other circumstances not identified at the time the final development plan was approved. No
change authorized under this section may cause any of the following ("major changes"):
    1.   A change in the use and/or character of the development.
    2.   An increase in the overall density and/or intensity of use.
    3.   An increase of more than five percent in overall coverage of structures.
    4.   A reduction or change in character of approved open space.
    5.   A reduction of required off-street parking by more than five percent.
    6.    A detrimental alteration to the pedestrian, vehicular, bicycle, circulation, or utility
         networks.
    7.   A reduction in required street pavement widths.
    8.   An increase in building height.
    9.   A decrease in building setback.
     Any major changes must be proposed to the planning commission after receipt of a
recommendation by planning staff. Proposals under numbers 1. through 9. above require the filing
of a new application. Generally speaking, any major changes must be recorded as amendments
in accordance with the procedure established for adopting the final development plan.



19.78.120 - Failure to begin development.




                                                                                            Page 289
     If no substantial construction has occurred in the development pursuant to the final
development plan within twelve months from final approval, the approved plan shall become null
and void and a new development plan and application shall be required for any development on
the subject property. The division director, upon a determination of good cause based on evidence
submitted by the applicant, may extend the time for beginning construction a maximum period of
twelve months for one time only.



19.78.130 - Phased planned unit development.

     If the sequence of construction of various portions of the final development plan is to occur
in stages, then the open space and/or recreational facilities shall be developed in proportion to
the number of dwelling units intended to be developed during any given stage of construction. A
phasing plan, including size and order of phases, shall be approved by staff to ensure that
individual phases of the development comply with all requirements, including that the open space
and/or recreational facilities are installed proportionately with the approved phasing plan.




                                                                                         Page 290
Chapter 19.79 - UTILITY AND FACILITY SYSTEM PLACEMENT REGULATIONS                                        Commented [CW85]: This chapter was created after the
                                                                                                         state legislature enacted laws regarding the trend of local
                                                                                                         jurisdictions to require burial of new and upgraded utility
                                                                                                         lines. The state law requires that local jurisdictions who
19.79.010 - Purpose.                                                                                     require burial of power lines must bear the differential cost
                                                                                                         between overhead lines and buried lines (which are much
                                                                                                         more expensive).
     The purpose of the utility and facility system replacement regulations codified in this chapter
is to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the countymetro township;
preserve and protect existing aesthetics, property values, and quality of life within residential and
other areas of the countymetro township; and provide notice to the countymetro township and
affected property owners of new or upgraded utility or facility systems to allow an opportunity to
determine if sufficient reason exists to require the systems to be installed underground and to
determine if funds are available to pay for underground installation.



19.79.020 - Definitions.                                                                                 Commented [CW86]: Based on industry standards and
                                                                                                         distinctions in the state law.
    As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
     "Accessory equipment" means the portion of the system including equipment sites,
transformers, switchgear, pedestals, terminals, meters, buildings (substations), and other similar
equipment that is normally installed aboveground in accordance with accepted practices of
underground systems.
     "Distribution system" means the portion of the system located between: (1) the service drop
transformer and the distribution substation for electric service, (2) the service drop and the receive
site (headend) for cable television, or (3) the service drop and the transmission system for
telephone service.
    "Facility company" means a company not regulated by the public service commission that
provides a service including but not limited to cable television or telecommunications.
     "Service drop" means the portion of the system located between the distribution system and
wall of the building or structure occupied or intended to be occupied by a customer.
    "System" means all poles, towers, wires, lines, cables, conduits, pipes and accessory
equipment providing service such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas, water,
sewer, steam or petroleum including service drops, distribution system, transmission system, and
accessory equipment.
    "Transmission system" means the portion of the system which is used to carry the service
from points of generation or switching centers to distribution points such as electrical substations
and equipment sites. In the case of electrical service, a transmission system is defined as carrying
a voltage of forty-six KV or more.
    "Utility company" means a company regulated by the public service commission that provides
a service including but not limited to electricity, telephone, or gas.



19.79.030 - Systems required to be underground.




                                                                                             Page 291
    Unless exempted under Section 19.79.040 of this chapter, the following systems may be
required to be installed underground:
    A.    All new transmission systems installed after the effective date of the ordinance codified
         in this chapter.
    B.    All upgraded transmission systems which would increase the height of poles from less
         than sixty-five feet to more than sixty-five feet above existing grade.



19.79.040 - Exemptions.

    The following systems are exempt from the provisions of Section 19.79.030 of this chapter:
    A.    Except as provided in Section 19.79.030(B) of this chapter, this chapter does not require
         the burial of any existing aboveground systems, nor does it prohibit or restrict the repair,
         relocation, maintenance, or replacement of any existing systems.
    B.   Aboveground installation of the following systems is permitted, subject to compliance
         with all other applicable statutes, ordinances, and regulations:
         1.   New service drops and/or distribution lines where service is available from existing      Commented [CW87]: This provision is in conflict with the
              aboveground systems;                                                                      Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone, which requires burial of
                                                                                                        service drops “where possible.”
         2.    Temporary systems required for construction projects not to exceed a period of
              twelve months;
         3.   Street light poles, light rail overhead catenary, wireless telecommunications towers,
              and accessory equipment;
         4.   Transmission systems installed in the two main north-south transmission corridors,
              as identified on the map entitled "main north-south electrical transmission corridors"
              on file with the planning and development services division.
    C.    In cases where unusual topographical, aesthetic, or other exceptional conditions or
         circumstances exist such that the installation of a system would have minimal visual,
         health, or safety impact on the public, variations or exceptions to the requirements of this
         chapter may be approved by the county mayormetro township mayor or designee;
         provided, that the variations and exceptions are consistent with the purposes of this
         chapter.
    D.    In cases where the county mayormetro township mayor or designee determines that               Commented [CW88]: This section is in reference to the
         insufficient funds are available to pay for the incremental costs of underground               state law requiring the local jurisdiction to pay for the cost
         installation of a system or determines that the public benefit to be derived from              difference between overhead and buried lines.
         underground installation is not cost effective or is otherwise not in the public interest:
         1.    The county mayormetro township mayor or designee shall give notice to the utility
              or facility company that the countymetro township will not require the underground
              installation and will not pay the incremental costs of underground installation of the
              system:
              a.   Within ninety days after notice is given under Section 19.79.050 of this chapter
                   in the case of a new transmission system; and
              b.    Within sixty days after notice is given under Section 19.79.050 of this chapter
                   in the case of a new distribution system or an upgraded transmission system


                                                                                            Page 292
                   which would increase the height of poles from less than sixty-five feet to more
                   than sixty-five feet above existing grade.
         2.    If the county mayormetro township mayor or designee has not given notice to the
              utility or facility company regarding underground installation as provided in
              subsection (D)(1) of this section it shall be deemed that the county mayormetro
              township mayor has determined that insufficient funds are available to pay for the
              incremental costs of underground installation or has determined that the public
              benefit to be derived from underground installation is otherwise not in the public
              interest.



19.79.050 - Notification of affected property owners.                                                       Commented [CW89]: This places the responsibility to
                                                                                                            notify neighbors on the utility company rather than the
      Prior to beginning a project involving the installation or upgrading of four or more poles, a         government.
utility/facility company providing electrical power for general consumption shall send written
notification of the project to all adjacent property owners and the director of public works. The
purpose of such notification is to allow the countymetro township and potentially affected property
owners to determine whether there are reasons to require the underground installation of the
system, to determine whether sufficient funds are available to pay the incremental costs of
underground installation of the new or upgraded system, and provide the countymetro township
the opportunity to meet with the company to discuss the project. Such notification shall include a
full description of the project including, but not limited to: (1) the need for the project, (2) location
of the project, (3) height, width, type and general location of poles, and (4) amount of voltage.
Failure of property owners to receive notice of the project shall in no way affect the validity of
action taken. Failure to reach an agreement within the sixty-day period shall not be grounds for
the delay of the project. Notification is not required for emergency projects, relocations,
replacements and systems which are exempt under Section 19.79.040 of this chapter except for
an exemption resulting after notification under Section 19.79.040(D) of this chapter.



19.79.060 - Excavation permit required.

     All underground systems to be installed in the right-of-way of any countymetro township road
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 14.16 of this code, Excavations.



Chapter 19.80 - OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS

Article I. - General Provisions



19.80.010 - Purpose.

    The purpose of this chapter is to reduce street congestion and traffic hazards in the
countymetro township by incorporating efficient, attractive facilities for off-street parking, loading,
and internal automobile and pedestrian circulation as an integral part of every use of land.


                                                                                               Page 293
19.80.020 - Off-street parking required.

A.    At the time any building or structure is erected, enlarged, increased in capacity, or any use
     is established, off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the requirements in this
     chapter.
B.    Plans Required to Obtain Building Permit. All applications for a building permit shall be          Commented [CW90]: Parking is an issue that always
     accompanied by a site plan showing a parking layout that complies with the provisions of this       must be considered at the time a building is built and again
     chapter that shows ingress and egress, loading areas, internal automobile and pedestrian            anytime it is remodeled to change the use. As shown
     circulation, and landscaping. The plan shall be reviewed and approved by the planning and           below, the parking demand for a 3000 square foot
                                                                                                         restaurant is much higher than for a 3000 square foot
     development services division consistent with the provisions of this chapter. Parking
                                                                                                         bookstore.
     requirements may be calculated separately for each business or land use in a building.



19.80.030 - Specifications.

A.    Parking Stall Size. Each off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet by eighteen feet     Commented [CW91]: These parking stall sizes have
     for diagonal or ninety-degree spaces, or eight by twenty feet for parallel spaces, exclusive of     essentially not changed since the 1960s, originally being 160
     access drives or aisles. Parking stalls adjacent to a column or wall must have an additional        square feet, then being modified to 9’ x 18’.
     two feet of width to accommodate ingress/egress from the vehicle. Access to parking spaces
     shall be from private roadways and not from public streets.
B.    Parking Lot Policies. Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township may adopt policies                  Commented [CW92]: The County planning commission
     regarding aisle widths, angled parking, and turn-around areas for parking lots, and parking         adopted standards many years ago regarding aisle widths
     stall sizes for valet parking.                                                                      and specifications for angled parking that used to be
                                                                                                         published as part of the ordinance, but are no longer
C.    Surfacing. Except for "provisional parking areas" as allowed under Section 19.80.110 of this       included because they are only policies.
     chapter, any off-street parking area located in an R-, C-, M-, MD-, or O-R-D zone shall be
     surfaced with an asphaltic or portland cement or other binder pavement, so as to provide a
     durable and dustless surface, shall be so graded and drained as to dispose of all surface
     water accumulated within the area, and shall be so arranged and marked as to provide the
     orderly and safe loading or unloading and parking and storage of vehicles. Surfacing
     requirements for parking areas located in FR-, FM-, A-, FA-, and S-1-G zones shall take into
     account the proposed land use, location of the property, and impact of paved parking.
D.     Maintenance. Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking area,
     including commercial parking lots and automobile, farm equipment, or other open-air sales
     lots, shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the requirements set out in this
     chapter.
E.    Screening. The sides and rear of any off-street parking area for more than five vehicles which
     adjoins or faces an institutional use or residential building shall be effectively screened by a
     masonry wall or solid visual barrier fence unless otherwise provided for more specifically by
     the requirements of the zoning district in which such parking area is located. Such wall or
     fence shall be not less than six feet in height and shall be maintained in good condition without
     any advertising thereon.
F.   Landscaping. All parking areas shall contain landscaping in compliance with the provisions
     of Chapter 19.77 of this title.




                                                                                             Page 294
G.     Lighting. Lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be so arranged as to
     direct light away from adjoining premises and from street traffic. No light source (light bulb,    Commented [CW93]: This requires the light bulbs
     fluorescent tube, or other direct source of light used to illuminate a parking area) shall be      themselves to be recessed up into the light fixture itself.
     visible beyond the property line of any off-street parking area.
H.    Coverage. No off-street parking area shall occupy more than sixty-five percent of the
     property not occupied by buildings.



19.80.035 - Parking in R-1 and R-2 Residential Zones.                                                   Commented [CW94]: This section was first enacted in
                                                                                                        2012 in an effort to better regulate what kind of vehicles
A.    Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or right-of-way      could be parked where on residential lots.
     to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone. The driveway shall be
     constructed of a durable, hard surface such as: concrete (including permeable concrete),
     asphalt (including permeable asphalt), brick, pavers, stone, or block. The number, location,
     and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set forth in sections 14.12.110
     and 14.36.060 of the CountyMetro township Code of Ordinances. Driveways over one
     hundred fifty feet in length are subject to approval by the fire authority. The area within the
     front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a driveway or parking surface
     set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the applicable provisions of this title
     regulating landscaping.
B.   Private vehicles. Private vehicles parked on residential property in any R-1 or R-2 zone shall
     comply with the following:
     1.    If parked or stored on a paved surface in compliance with section 19.80.030.C or
          19.83.035.A, a private vehicle may be located in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of
          a dwelling.
     2.    If parked or stored on any other type of surface, private vehicles must be behind the
          front line of the dwelling and screened from view from public streets or neighboring
          properties with a six-foot, tall (minimum) opaque fence.
C.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any
     R-1 or R-2 zone shall comply with the following:
     1.    If parked or stored on a paved surface in compliance with section 19.80.030.C or
          19.83.035.A, a recreational vehicle may be located in the front yard, side yard, or rear
          yard of a dwelling. Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a
          parking pad which is constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be
          kept weed free.
     2.    If parked or stored on any other type of surface, recreational vehicles must be behind
          the front line of the dwelling and screened from view from public streets or neighboring
          properties with a six-foot tall (minimum) opaque fence.
D.    Commercial vehicles. Commercial vehicles shall not be parked or stored on residential
     property in an R-1 or R-2 zone, except in the following circumstances:
     1.   Commercial vehicles may be parked on a property in conjunction with lawfully- permitted
          construction, maintenance, or site development activities so long as said activities are
          diligently pursued.




                                                                                            Page 295
     2.    One commercial vehicle may be parked behind the front line of the dwelling and,
          screened from view from public streets or neighboring properties with a six-foot tall
          (minimum) opaque fence.
     3.    One commercial vehicle may be parked in the front yard or side yard of a dwelling, in         Commented [CW95]: This provision was designed to
          the R-1 or R-2 zones upon issuance of a permit by planning and development services,           allow vehicles like tow trucks to be parked on a residential
          as long as all of the following criteria are met:                                              lot provided it is within certain size limits and parked on a
                                                                                                         legal surface.
          a.   No other commercial vehicle is parked or stored on the property.
          b.   The operator of the vehicle is required to be on call 24 hours a day to use the vehicle
               in response to an emergency;
          c.   The commercial vehicle is parked on a paved surface in compliance with section
               19.80.030.C or 19.80.035.A;
          d.   The commercial vehicle is parked entirely on private property, not parked on or over
               the street or sidewalk; and
          e.    The commercial vehicle does not exceed Class 5 (two-axle, six tire single unit
               trucks) in Federal Highway Administration vehicle classification.



Article II. - Parking Requirements



19.80.040 - Number of spaces required.                                                                   Commented [CW96]: This used to be written as a
                                                                                                         “minimum” number of stalls provision, but in order to
A.    Except where variations and exceptions are allowed under Sections 19.80.070 through                prevent over-parking, it was changed to be a “no more, no
     19.80.100 of this chapter, a number of parking spaces equal to the sum of the required              less” number of stalls.
     number of parking spaces for all uses on a property, including multiple uses within the same
     building, shall be provided. Except in cases where a site-specific traffic study demonstrates
     a need for additional parking, no parking area for more than twenty stalls shall exceed the
     number of stalls required below unless the additional parking is installed as "provisional
     parking" under Section 19.80.110 of this chapter. The number of off-street parking spaces
     required shall be as follows:
     1.   Amusement center (arcade), one space per one hundred square feet of floor area;
     2.   Automobile or machinery sales and service garages, two spaces plus one space for
          each four hundred square feet of floor area;
     3.   Banks, post offices, business and professional offices, one space for each two hundred
          fifty square feet of gross floor area;
     4.   Bowling alleys, five for each alley;
     5.    Churches, one space for each six and one-half feet of linear pew or three and one-half
          seats in an auditorium; provided, however, that where a church building is designed or
          intended to be used by two congregations at the same time, one and one-half parking
          spaces shall be provided for each three and one-half seats in the auditorium. For
          buildings designed or intended to be used for conferences or other special meetings
          involving more than the regular congregations, additional parking shall be required as
          determined by the planning commission;


                                                                                             Page 296
6.     Dancehalls and assembly halls without fixed seats, exhibition halls, except church
      assembly rooms in conjunction with auditorium, three spaces for each one hundred
      square feet of floor area used by assembly or dancing;
7.    Day care center for children, four spaces plus one space per five hundred square feet
      of floor area;
8.    Dormitory building, one space for each tenant;
9.    Dwellings, multiple, two spaces for each dwelling unit. In multi-family developments and
      dwelling groups where private covered parking is utilized, additional parking for guests
      shall be required. The planning commission shall determine the amount of guest parking
      required to meet the parking needs of each development;
10.     Dwellings, single-family, two spaces for each dwelling unit. For single-family dwellings,
      the parking spaces may be arranged one behind the other;
11.     Funeral homes, mortuaries, reception centers, one space for each forty square feet of
      floor area in assembly room;
12.     Furniture and appliance stores, household equipment or furniture repair shop, one
      space for each six hundred square feet of gross leasable area;
13.     Hospitals and convalescent hospitals, two spaces per bed for the total capacity of
      building;
14.     Hotels, motels and motor hotels, one space for each living or sleeping unit, plus parking
      for all accessory uses as defined in this title;
15.    Indoor firearms and/or archery range, two spaces per shooting point;
16.    Manufacturing plants, research or testing laboratories, bottling plants, one space for
      each person employed on the highest employment shift;
17.    Medical or dental clinics, six spaces for each doctor's office;
18.    Nursing homes, four spaces plus one space per each five beds;
19.     Recreation, four spaces per court for tennis courts, three spaces per court for
      racquetball courts, two spaces per court for squash courts;
20.    Residential health care facility:
      a.   Four spaces for facilities with five or less residents, the parking spaces may be
           arranged one behind the other,
      b.   Four spaces plus one space per each five beds;
21.     Restaurants or private nonprofit clubs, one space for each two and one-half seats or
      three spaces per one hundred square feet of floor area, whichever is greater;                 Commented [CW97]: “floor area” is generally considered
                                                                                                    by the planning staff to be the restaurant’s seating area, not
22.     Retail stores, shops, etc., except as provided in this subsection, one space for each       the entire restaurant.
      two hundred fifty square feet of gross floor area;
23.    Rooming and lodging homes, one space for each tenant;
24.     Schools, one space for each three and one-half seats in an auditorium, plus one space
      for each administrator and faculty;
25.     Shopping centers and other multi-tenant retail buildings, five spaces for each one
      thousand square feet of gross leasable area;



                                                                                        Page 297
     26.     Sports arenas, auditoriums, theaters, assembly halls and meeting rooms, one space
           for each three and one-half seats of maximum seating capacity;
     27.     Trailer sales, five spaces minimum, or five percent of the total site area excluding the
           landscaped areas, whichever is greater;
     28.      Wholesale establishments, warehouses, service and maintenance centers and
           communication equipment buildings, one space for each person employed during the
           highest employment shift;
     29.    Bed and breakfast homestay, two spaces for each dwelling unit plus one space for
           each guestroom;
     30.     Short-term rental, two spaces per dwelling unit plus one additional space for each
           bedroom exceeding two bedrooms. For buildings with two dwelling units or less, the third
           and fourth spaces, when required, can be in tandem with the first two spaces required;
     31.     Bed and breakfast inn, one space for each person employed on the highest
           employment shift, plus one space for every guestroom, plus parking for all accessory
           uses defined in this title;
     32.     Residential facility for elderly persons, two spaces for the dwelling unit plus two spaces
           for visitors, the parking spaces may be arranged one behind the other;
     33.    Apartments for elderly persons, one space for each dwelling unit;
     34.    Outdoor display and sales, including garden centers, nurseries, lumber yards, building
           materials sales yards; one space for each one thousand square feet of display and sales
           area.
B.    Number of Parking Spaces for Uses Not Specified. For any use of buildings not specified in           Commented [CW98]: This section was amended to allow
     this section, or for uses of a seasonal or temporary nature, the off-street parking requirement       us to consult know industry standards to determine parking
     shall be determined by the division director being guided, where appropriate, by comparable           for unique uses. Prior to that, we had to find the most
     ordinances from other jurisdictions, accepted planning industry standards, or the                     similar use from the list above and use that ratio.
     requirements set forth in this section for uses or buildings which, in the opinion of the division
     director, are similar to the use or building under consideration.
C.    Accessible Parking Spaces. For nonresidential parking areas, the accessible parking spaces
     required to satisfy the Americans with Disabilities Act shall be provided within the total
     number of stalls required above. For multi-family residential developments, the accessible
     stalls shall be provided in addition to the number of stalls required above.
D.    Bicycle Parking. To encourage the use of bicycles for personal transportation as an                  Commented [CW99]: This was inserted in 2005 after
     alternative to motor vehicles, requirements are established herein to provide bicycle parking         much lobbying by the bicycle coalition.
     at regional, community, neighborhood, and other transportation and travel destinations.
     1.      Bicycle parking facilities shall be provided for any new commercial, office,
           manufacturing, industrial, multi-family residential, recreational, public and/or quasi-public
           use for which automobile parking is required; or for modification or change of any use
           listed above that results in the need for additional automobile parking facilities, as
           follows:
           a.   The number of bicycle parking spaces required shall be equal to five percent of the
                vehicular parking spaces required for such use, with a minimum requirement of two
                spaces, and a maximum requirement of twelve.
           b.   Bicycle parking spaces shall be:



                                                                                               Page 298
              i.     Located on the same lot as the principal use;
              ii.    Located and designed to prevent damage to bicycles by cars;
              iii.    Located so as not to interfere with pedestrian movements;
              iv.     Located in a highly visible, well-lighted area that is located near entrance(s) to
                     the building;
              v.     Located to provide safe access from the spaces to the public right-of-way or
                     bicycle lane;
              vi.     Designed to accommodate a range of bicycle shapes and sizes, and to allow
                     the frame and wheel(s) of each bicycle to be supported and secured against
                     theft without interfering with adjacent bicycles;
              vii.    Anchored to resist removal by vandalism and resistant to rust or corrosion.
     2.   Bicycle parking spaces which meet the above requirements may be located within the
          building.
     3.    The proposed bicycle parking spaces shall be clearly shown on the site plan indicating
          location and type.



19.80.050 - Off-street loading.                                                                            Commented [CW100]: This is outdated and probably can
                                                                                                           be removed. Loading docks are designed into buildings that
      For every building or part thereof not provided with docking facilities which has a gross floor      need them with or without this ordinance.
area of ten thousand square feet or more, and which is to be occupied by a commercial or
industrial use to or from which delivery of materials or merchandise is regularly made by motor
vehicle, there shall be provided and maintained on the same lot with such building at least one
off-street loading space, plus one additional space for each additional twenty thousand square
feet or major fraction thereof. Each loading space shall be not less than ten feet in width, twenty-
five feet in length, and fourteen feet in height. Such space may occupy any required yard or court
only if it is enclosed by a brick or stone wall not less than six feet in height.



19.80.060 - Gasoline pump requirements.

A.     Gasoline pumps shall be set back not less than twenty-four feet from any street property
     line, and not less than thirty feet from any residential zone boundary line. If the pump island
     is set at an angle on the property, it shall be so located that automobiles stopped for service
     will not extend over the property line.
B.    Canopies constructed to provide a weather shield over gasoline pump islands shall be set
     back not less than six feet from any street line and not less than ten feet from any residential
     zone boundary.



Article III. - Variations and Exceptions                                                                   Commented [CW101]: This section is designed to allow
                                                                                                           some flexibility for reducing or altering parking
                                                                                                           requirements.



                                                                                               Page 299
19.80.070 - Valet parking program.

A.   A valet parking program is defined as a parking plan which has personnel retained to assist
     parking at a drop-off area and exclusively controls the parking of vehicles into valet spaces
     until they are returned to a pick-up area. The plan shall identify the following
     1.   The location of parking spaces, pick-up areas, drop-off areas, and egress/ingress;
     2.   The involvement of personnel; and
     3.   General operating procedures.
B.    Eight percent of the required parking spaces shall be reserved as self-parking spaces and
     shall be indicated as such on the plan. Self-parking spaces shall meet the requirements of
     Section 19.80.030.



19.80.080 - Shared parking.                                                                             Commented [CW102]: The idea behind shared parking is
                                                                                                        to allow more than one business to share a parking area
A.   Notwithstanding any other parking requirements provided in this chapter, when different land       based on the fact that peak parking demand times are
     uses occupy the same or adjacent lot(s) in the R-M, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-V. M-1, M-2, MD-1,            different for different types of businesses.
     MD-3, or the O-R-D zones, the total number of off-street parking spaces required for each
     use (see Section 19.80.040 of this chapter) may be combined and shared upon approval as
     provided herein. A proposal for sharing of off-street parking shall be presented to the planning
     and development services division director for site plan review and approval. Conditional use
     applications which require planning commission approval, and for which shared parking is
     being proposed as part of the application, must have planning commission approval for the
     shared parking.
B.    In determining the total requirements for shared parking facilities, the division director or
     planning commission shall use Table 19.80.080(a), set out below, according to the following
     guidelines:
     1.   For each applicable general land use category, calculate the number of spaces required
          for a use as if it were the only use (refer to the schedule of minimum off-street parking
          requirements).
     2.    Use the figures for each individual land use to calculate the number of spaces required
          for that use for each time period specified in the table (six time periods per use).
     3.   For each time period, add the number of spaces required for all applicable land uses to
          obtain a grand total for each of the six time periods.
     4.   Select the time period with the highest total parking requirement and use that as the total
          number of parking spaces required for the site on a shared parking basis.
C.    For uses not listed in Table 19.80.080(a), the division director shall determine the required
     parking for the six time periods.
                                        Table 19.80.080(a)                                              Commented [CW103]: This table was kept pretty simple,
                                                                                                        but it has been suggested there are certain land use types
                                       Weekdays                             Weekends                    that aren’t very well accounted for.




                                                                                            Page 300
                             12:00        7:00      6:00      12:00             7:00      6:00
   General Land Use
                            a.m.—       a.m.—      p.m.—     a.m.—            a.m.—      p.m.—
      Category
                           7:00 a.m.   6:00 p.m. 12:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m.        6:00 p.m. 12:00 a.m.

   Office & Industrial        5%         100%          5%           0%          5%          0%

          Retail              5%         100%         80%           5%         100%         60%

       Restaurant             50%         70%         100%         70%         50%         100%

          Hotel              100%         65%         100%        100%         65%         100%

       Residential           100%         50%         80%         100%         75%          75%

 Theater/entertainment        5%          20%         100%          5%         50%         100%

    Place of worship          0%          30%         50%           0%         100%         75%




19.80.090 - Planning commission exceptions.                                                             Commented [CW104]: This was written to give the
                                                                                                        planning commission as much latitude as possible while still
     Upon a finding by the planning commission that a proposed site plan is in harmony with the         providing some criteria on which to base their decision.
general plan of the community in which it is located and that effective tools have been employed
in the creation of a transit oriented development, community re-development project, or walkable
community project, the planning commission may reduce the number of required parking stalls
for any proposed development. In approving any such reduction, the planning commission may
use such tools as: recommendations from the planning and development services staff a site-
specific traffic study conducted by a qualified engineering firm, American Planning Association
guidelines, Envision Utah guidelines, and/or Urban Land Institute guidelines.



19.80.100 - Community parking credits.                                                                  Commented [CW105]: On street parking and community
                                                                                                        parking lots are being used more and more often to reduce
     Upon a finding by the planning commission for conditional uses or the planning and                 the need for parking lots unique to each business.
development services division director for permitted uses, that parking is available either on public
property or on property leased by a public entity for community parking, which parking is
conveniently located to a particular land use, credits may be given toward the parking requirement
for said land use. In cases where multiple businesses or land uses qualify to use the same parking
spaces for community parking credits, the credits shall be pro-rated for each land use. In
calculating the pro-rated community parking credits, the planning commission or division director
shall consider such factors as: the amount of frontage a property has on the street, the total
number of parking stalls required for a given land use, and the potential for future development in
the immediate vicinity creating further demand for parking spaces. The planning commission or



                                                                                            Page 301
division director may also use Table 19.80.080(a) for land uses in different general categories to
consider shared community parking.



19.80.110 - Provisional parking.                                                                       Commented [CW106]: This was added as a way to
                                                                                                       reduce the amount of paved surface being required in cases
    "Provisional parking" is defined as an area or areas within a parking lot where parking spaces     where the number of stalls required by ordinance may not
which are shown on the approved parking plan are landscaped rather than paved. The following           be warranted for a given business. The area for parking is
conditions apply to provisional parking areas:                                                         accounted for on the site plan, but not all of it is paved
                                                                                                       unless the need for it is shown.
     1.   Provisional parking spaces must be shown on the site plan as complying with the parking
          stall size requirements of this chapter as well as the maneuverability and aisle
          requirements of planning commission policy.
     2.   Provisional parking spaces may be landscaped in such a way that they can be used for
          parking on a seasonal or temporary basis.
     3.    After one year's time from the issuance of the land use permit, a property owner may
          request a review of the provisional parking. Upon a finding by the planning commission
          for conditional uses or the division director of planning and development services for
          permitted uses that the additional parking is needed, approval shall be granted for the
          provisional parking to be paved.
     4.   The planning commission may set conditions of approval as part of any conditional use
          permit that utilizes provisional parking as allowed under Section 19.84.050 to provide for
          monitoring and future review of the parking plan.



Chapter 19.81 - HIGHWAY NOISE ABATEMENT MEASURES                                                       Commented [CW107]: This chapter doesn’t have
                                                                                                       applicability in Copperton. If, in the future, Copperton does
                                                                                                       have a highway in it’s boundaries, a chapter like this could
                                                                                                       be adopted in the future. However, there have been times
19.81.010 - Findings.                                                                                  when the installation of “sound walls” actually makes the
                                                                                                       sound problem worse rather than better.
A.    The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) regulation entitled "Procedures for Abatement
     of Highway Traffic Noise and Construction Noise" (23 CFR 772) provides procedures for
     noise studies and noise abatement measures to help protect the public health and welfare,
     supplies noise abatement criteria, and establishes requirements for information to be given
     to local officials for use in the planning and design of federal-aid highways. The Utah
     Department of Transportation (UDOT) policy entitled "Noise Abatement" (Policy #08-111),
     adopted pursuant to 23 CFR 772, addresses highway noise impacts and sets forth conditions
     under which noise abatement projects may be approved and constructed in the state of Utah
     with the use of federal-aid highway participation funds.
B.    In order for UDOT to obtain participation funds from FHWA for proposed federal-aid highway
     projects for noise abatement measures on existing highways (known as "Type II Projects"),
     local authorities are required to take measures "...to exercise land use control over the
     remaining undeveloped lands adjacent to highways in the local jurisdiction to prevent further
     development of incompatible activities." 23 CFR 772.13(b).




                                                                                           Page 302
C.    In an effort to prevent future traffic noise impacts on currently undeveloped lands, 23 CFR
     772.15 requires that highway agencies shall inform local officials within whose jurisdiction the
     highway project is located of the following:
     1.    The best estimation of future noise levels (for various distances from the highway
          improvement) for both developed and undeveloped lands or properties in the immediate
          vicinity of the project;
     2.    Information that may be useful to local communities to protect future land development
          from becoming incompatible with anticipated highway noise levels; and
     3.    Eligibility for federal-aid participation for Type II Projects as described in 23 CFR
          772.13(b).
D.    In order for Salt Lake County residents to benefit from the development and implementation
     of Type II Projects for noise abatement along eligible highways within its boundaries, it is
     found to be in the county's best interests to comply with federal regulation and state policy
     by adopting this zoning ordinance codified in this chapter.



19.81.020 - Purpose of provisions.

     The ordinance codified in this chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety and general welfare of the citizens of the county by minimizing the potential adverse effects
of highway traffic noise and by complying with state and federal requirements for highway traffic
noise abatement projects.



19.81.030 - Development of property adjacent to certain state highways.

      Consistent with the requirements of 23 CFR 772 and UDOT's Noise Abatement Policy #08-
111, no remaining undeveloped lands located in the unincorporated county adjacent to Type II
Projects (freeways and expressways) shall be developed for any use or activity which is
incompatible with highway traffic noise levels, unless the development of such lands shall include
appropriate noise abatement measures determined necessary and appropriate by the county and
UDOT. A use or activity shall be deemed incompatible with highway traffic noise levels when a
"traffic noise impact" occurs, as determined under the following formula:
                                     Noise Abatement Criteria
                           Hourly A-Weighted Sound Level—decibels (dBA)
                              Leq shown are maximum levels allowed:

  Activity
                Leq(h)                        Description of Activity Category
 Category


                 57          Lands on which serenity and quiet are of extraordinary significance
      A
              (exterior)     and serve an important public need and where the preservation of




                                                                                            Page 303
                              those qualities is essential if the area is to continue to serve its
                                                     intended purpose.


                           Picnic areas, fixed recreation areas, playgrounds, active sports areas,
                 67
     B                      parks, residences, motels, hotels, schools, churches, libraries, and
              (exterior)
                                                          hospitals.


                           Cemeteries, commercial areas, industrial areas, office buildings, and
                 72
     C                        other developed lands, properties or activities not included in
              (exterior)
                                               Categories A or B above.


                              Undeveloped lands (including roadside facilities and dispersed
     D           —
                                                      recreation).


                  52       Residences, motels, hotels, public meeting rooms, schools, churches,
     E
              (interior)                  libraries, hospitals, and auditoriums.




19.81.040 - Responsibility of owner or developer.

     The owner or developer of land to be subdivided, improved or developed adjacent to Type II
Projects shall be responsible to comply with any and all requirements for noise abatement
measures imposed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Failure to so comply shall constitute
a violation of county ordinance and shall be punishable as a misdemeanor as provided in Chapter
1.12 of this title.



Chapter 19.82 - SIGNS                                                                                    Commented [CW108]: A chapter regulating signs was
                                                                                                         first adopted in 1981. Prior to that, “nameplates and signs”
                                                                                                         was listed as a permitted use in many zones, and the size
                                                                                                         allowed was determined by the definitions section.
19.82.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of this chapter is to eliminate excessive and confusing sign displays that create
potential hazards to motorists, pedestrians, property, and also to maintain a responsible
communication system by setting requirements for the location, size, height and lighting of signs
that will be compatible with adjoining land uses, architecture and landscape, and that will preserve
and improve the aesthetic values and visual qualities of Salt Lake Countymetro township.

                                                                                                         Commented [CW109]: A set of definitions was
                                                                                                         developed in response to the myriad of different types of
                                                                                                         signs and sign-related issues people have proposed over the
19.82.020 - Definitions.                                                                                 years.


                                                                                              Page 304
    As used in this chapter:
     "A-frame sign" means temporary and/or movable sign constructed with two sides attached at
the top so as to allow the sign to stand in an upright position.
    "Advertising sign." See "off-premises sign."
    "Alterations" means a change or rearrangement in the structural parts or design whether by
extending on a side, by increasing in area or height, or by relocating or change in position.
     "Animated sign" means a sign which induces motion or rotation of any part by mechanical,
or artificial means, or subdued color changes.
    "Animation" means simulated movement created by the display of a series of pictures or
images, creating the illusion of movement.
    "Awning sign" means a sign designed in awning form that is an illuminated or nonilluminated
space frame structure attached to a building or other permanent structure.
     "Balloon sign" means advertisement supported by a balloon anchored to the premises where
the advertised use is conducted, product or commodity sold, service performed, or business name
is located.
    "Beacon light" means:
    a.   Any light with one or more beams, capable of being directed in any direction or directions,
         or capable of being revolved automatically; or
    b.   A fixed or flashing high-intensity light, such as a spotlight, a floodlight, or a strobe light.
    c.   "Beacon light" shall not include searchlights.
    "Billboard bank" means an accounting system established by the countymetro township to
keep track of the number of billboard signs and the square footage of each billboard sign removed
pursuant to Section 19.82.185 of this chapter.
     "Billboard credit" means an entry into a billboard owner's billboard bank account that indicates
the number of billboard sign locations and the square footage of each billboard sign.
    "Billboard owner" means the owner of a billboard in unincorporated Salt Lake Countythe
metro township.
    "Billboard sign" means an off-premises advertising sign.
    "Business sign" means an on-premises sign.
    "Construction sign" means a sign identifying an existing or proposed development project
which may contain the name of the project, name and address of construction firms, architects,
engineers, developers, etc.
     "Dissolve" means an image transition effect accomplished by varying the image intensity or
pattern, where the first image gradually appears to dissipate and lose legibility simultaneously
with the gradual appearance and legibility of the subsequent image.
    "Electronic message center" or "EMC" means a mechanism or device which uses a
combination of lights, or lighted or unlighted panels which are controlled electrically and
electronically to produce words, symbols, pictures or messages which may change within a given
panel area.




                                                                                               Page 305
     "Embellishment, cut-out or extension" means an extension of the billboard resulting in
increased square footage as part of an artistic design to convey a specific message or
advertisement.
     "Existing billboard" means a billboard that is either constructed, or for which an application
for a land use permit was received and approved by the planning and development services
division and state authorities where necessary, prior to May 18, 2004. Billboards that have
received prior approval from the countymetro township at a particular location must be approved
by the state by June 2, 2005. If no state approval is given, the countymetro township approval
shall expire on said date and the permit shall become null and void.
    "Fade" means an image transition effect accomplished by varying the intensity of the image,
where the first image gradually reduces intensity to the point of not being legible and the
subsequent image gradually increases intensity to the point of legibility.
    "Flashing sign" means a sign which has or appears to have motion or rotation of the lighting
elements or displays flashing or intermittent light.
    "Flat sign" means a sign erected parallel to and attached to the outside wall of a building and
extending not more than twenty-four inches from such wall with messages or copy on the face
side only.
     "Floodlighted sign" means a sign made legible in the absence of daylight by devices which
reflect or project light upon it.
    "Footcandle" means the English unit of measurement for illuminance, which is equal to one
lumen, incident upon an area of one foot.
    "Ground sign" means a sign supported by a fixed permanent frame support in the ground.
     "Illuminance" means the photometric quantity most closely associated with the perception of
brightness and a measurement of the intensity of light falling on a surface at a given distance from
the light source.
     "Illuminated sign" means a sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or outlines
illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes.
    "Image" means the display of text, numbers or the likeness of an object or living thing of any
type on an EMC.
    "Image display duration" means the period of time that an image remains static.
    "Image transition duration" means the period of time in which one image changes to another
on an electronic message center.
     "Interior sign" means a sign located within a building so as to be primarily visible only from
within the building in which the sign is located.
    "Mobile sign" means a sign mounted on trailer or frame, lighted or unlighted, which is not
permanently attached to a structure or the ground.
    "Monument sign" means a sign which is incorporated into the landscape or architectural
design scheme and displaying the name of uses or buildings.
    "Nameplate sign" means a sign indicating the name and/or occupation of a person legally
occupying the premises or indicating a legal home occupation thereon.
    "Nonconforming billboard" means an existing billboard that is located in a zoning district or
otherwise situated in a way that is not permitted by the provisions of this chapter.



                                                                                           Page 306
     "Nonconforming sign or sign structure" means a sign or sign structure or portion thereof
lawfully existing at the effective date of this chapter or any amendment hereto which does not
conform to all height, area, yard, spacing, animation, lighting, use or other regulations prescribed
in the zone in which it is located after the effective date of this chapter or any amendment hereto.
     "Off-premises sign" means a sign directing attention to a use, product, commodity or service
not related to the premises upon which the sign is located.
   "On-premises sign" means a sign directing attention to a use conducted, product or
commodity sold, service performed or business name upon the premises on which it is located.
     "Overhanging sign" means a sign which projects twelve inches or more over the roof of a
building.
    "Pedestal sign" means a temporary and/or movable sign supported by a column(s) and a
base so as to allow the sign to stand in an upright position.
     "Political sign" means a sign advertising a candidate or candidates for public elective office,
or a political party, or a sign urging a particular vote on a public issue decided by ballot.
     "Projecting sign" means a sign attached to a building or canopy and extending in whole or
part more than twenty-four inches beyond any wall of the building or canopy.
    "Promotional sign board" means a permanently attached changeable copy sign not
exceeding twenty square feet per face with one or two faces back to back for the display of
promotional items offered for sale on the premises.
    "Property sign" means a sign related to the property upon which it is located and offering
such information as address, name of occupant for residential uses, sale or lease of the property,
warning against trespassing, any hazard, or other danger on the property.
     "Roof sign" means a sign which is erected partly or wholly on the roof of the building.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a sign structure having main supports embedded in the ground
shall not be considered to be a roof sign even if the sign's supports pass through a roof, canopy
or parapet of a building.
     "Scintillate" or "scintillating" means light flashes, light sparkling, light starbursts, light
twinkling, light pulsating or any other image transition effect or animation in which an image
instantly and repeatedly changes for the purpose of attracting attention.
     "Service sign" means a sign that is incidental to a use lawfully occupying the property upon
which the sign is located and which sign is necessary to provide information to the public, such
as direction to parking lots, location of restrooms, entrance and exits, etc. A service sign shall
also include signs providing information about sale of agricultural products produced upon the
premises. A business trade mark or logo may appear on the sign provided it is secondary to the
information portion of the sign.
     "Sign" means and includes every advertising message, announcement, declaration,
demonstration, display, illustration, insignia surface or space erected or maintained in view of the
observer thereof for identification, advertisement or promotion of the interests of any person,
entity, product or service. "Sign" also includes the sign structure supports, lighting system and
any attachments, ornaments or other features used to draw the attention of observers.
     "Sign area" means the area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the minimum
frame and supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a back-to-back or double-faced sign
shall be computed when signs are parallel or diverge from a common edge by an angle of not
more than forty-five degrees.


                                                                                           Page 307
     In relation to signs that do not have a frame or a separate background, sign area shall be
computed on the basis of the least rectilinear line with a maximum of eight sides, triangle or circle
large enough to frame the display.
    Sign areas in the shape of a sphere, prism, cylinder, cone, pyramid, square or other such
shapes shall be computed as one-half of the total surface area.
    "Sign maintenance" means that signs shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good
condition, including the replacement of defective parts, repainting, cleaning and other acts
required for the maintenance of the sign.
     "Sign setback" means the minimum distance that any portion of a sign or sign structure shall
be from any street right-of-way line and yard line coterminous with a street.
    "Sign structure" means anything constructed or erected supporting a sign which requires
location on or below the ground or attached to something having location on or below the ground.
    "Snipe sign" means a sign which is attached to a public utility pole, fixture poles, canopy
supports, or the supports for another sign.
     "Static" means no motion of any type or form.
     "Temporary sign," as regulated by this title, shall include any sign, banner, pennant, valance
or advertising display constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or
other light materials, with or without frames, intended to be displayed out of doors for a short
period of time.
    "Time and temperature device" means any mechanism that displays the time and/or
temperature but does not display any commercial advertising or identification.
      "Video" means simulated movement created by the display of a series of images creating the
illusion of continuous movement.
    "Wall sign" means a sign that is either painted on a wall or its facing by not having a sign
frame or separation from the wall or facing.
     "Window sign" means a sign permanently attached and located within a building so as to be
visible through a window or door outside of the building.



19.82.025 - Noncommercial signs.                                                                        Commented [CW110]: Free speech issue.

    Any sign authorized under this chapter is allowed to contain noncommercial copy in lieu of
any permissible copy.



19.82.030 - Interpretation.                                                                             Commented [CW111]: Probably due to various legal
                                                                                                        challenges over the years.
A.   Properties divided by public streets are not adjacent.
B.   The sign requirements contained in this chapter are declared to be the maximum allowable.
C.   Sign types not specifically allowed as set forth within this chapter shall be prohibited.




                                                                                            Page 308
D.   Where other ordinances are in conflict with the provisions of this chapter, the most restrictive
     ordinance shall apply.



19.82.040 - Conformity required.

A.    Except as provided in this title, a sign shall not be erected, raised, moved, placed,
     reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered, unless in conformity with the regulations
     specified in this chapter.
B.    A nonconforming sign shall not be reconstructed, raised, moved, placed, extended or                Commented [CW112]: This provision is different from
     enlarged unless the sign is changed so as to conform to all provisions of this title. Alterations   the “nonconforming uses and noncomplying structures”
     shall also mean the changing of the text or message that the sign is conveying from one use         chapter found later in the ordinance. Not really sure why
     of the premises to another use of the premises and the changing of the ownership of the sign        non-conforming signs are not allowed to be altered in any
                                                                                                         way, particularly when those signs are sometimes viewed as
     when that ownership necessitates a change in the text or message of the sign. Alterations
                                                                                                         iconic landmarks by locals.
     shall not be interpreted to include changing the text or copy of electronic message centers,
     off-premises advertising signs, theater signs, outdoor bulletin or other similar signs which are
     designed to accommodate changeable copy.



19.82.050 - Exceptions.

A.    When a parcel of land is five acres or larger, the planning commission may consider an on-         Commented [CW113]: This provision has been used to
     premises sign proposal for a development on such parcel that is less restrictive than the           allow multiple businesses in a shopping center to share
     regulations set forth in this chapter, as a conditional use providing there is a determination      space on one over-sized sign; but also to allow special uses
     that the proposed sign exceptions are:                                                              like the Olympic speed skating oval in Kearns to have
                                                                                                         signage that otherwise would not have been allowed.
     1.   Not in conflict with the purpose of this chapter;
     2.   In architectural harmony with the development and other buildings and uses adjacent to
          the development.
B.   Signs not regulated by this chapter:                                                                Commented [CW114]: This section may need to be
                                                                                                         changed in light of a landmark supreme court decision
     1.   On-premises advertising signs that are attached to windows or walls and are clearly of         regarding non-commercial signs.
          a temporary nature, which promote specific sales;
     2.   Signs which are associated with school or church events and functions, which are clearly
          of a temporary nature;
     3.   Interior signs;
     4.   Time and temperature devices;
     5.   Searchlights.



19.82.060 - Comprehensive sign plan.                                                                     Commented [CW115]: Most developers just do this
                                                                                                         anyway.
    When an application for the first permit (building permit or conditional use permit) on a parcel
of ground is submitted to the countymetro township, it shall be accompanied by a complete
comprehensive sign plan for all existing, proposed or future signs on the parcel of ground.


                                                                                             Page 309
19.82.070 - Building permit exceptions.

   Building permits are required for signs except for property signs, political signs and
nameplates conforming to the provisions of this chapter. (See Section 19.82.050(B).)



19.82.080 - Size computation.

A.   The following shall be used when calculating sign sizes: When more than one use occupies
     a lot, the frontage may be used to calculate the sign size for one total ground or projecting
     sign, not for each use. The total may then be divided between the uses. There may be any
     number of flat or wall signs, provided their total does not exceed the percentage of wall area
     coverage allowed.
B.    A property line which abuts a nonaccess freeway, road, street or right-of-way may not be
     used in computing sign area.



19.82.085 - Height of ground signs.

     The height of ground signs, except as otherwise specified in this chapter, shall be measured
from the grade at the property line of the yard in which the sign is located, but shall not exceed
the height allowed in the zone.



19.82.090 - Imprint of ownership required.

     The imprint of the sign owner and sign erector of all signs shall be in plain and public view.



19.82.100 - Off-premises sign requirements.

     Off-premises signs erected along the interstate or the primary highway system as defined by
the state shall conform with the provisions of the Utah Outdoor Advertising Act.



19.82.110 - Visibility at intersections.                                                                  Commented [CW116]: Safety issue.

A.    There shall be a minimum clearance of ten feet between the ground and any part of a
     projecting sign or ground sign, as measured from the grade of the intersecting streets and
     located within the clear view of an intersection, which is a triangular area formed by the street
     property lines and a line connecting them at points forty feet from the intersection of the street



                                                                                              Page 310
     lines. Any portion of a sign structure within the clear view of an intersection and nearer the
     ground than ten feet may not exceed ten inches in width, thickness or diameter.
B.    A service sign located within the clear view of an intersection shall not exceed two feet in
     height.



19.82.120 - Signs on public property.                                                                  Commented [CW117]: This can be a constant
                                                                                                       enforcement issue in some areas.
     No sign shall be located on publicly owned land or inside street rights-of-way except signs
required and erected by permission of an authorized public agency. Signs shall include, but not
be limited to, handbills, posters, advertisements or notices that are fastened, placed, posted,
painted or attached in any way upon any curbstone, lamppost, telephone pole, telegraph pole,
electric light or power pole, hydrant, bridge, tree, rock, sidewalk or street.



19.82.130 - Lighted signs.                                                                             Commented [CW118]: These are signed with lights that
                                                                                                       shine up or down on them, like many billboards, but not
A.    A lighted sign shall not be installed which permits the light to penetrate beyond the property   signs that are illuminated from the inside (which are defined
     in such a manner as to annoy or interfere with the use of adjacent properties.                    as “illuminated signs” rather than “lighted signs.”

B.    Such lights alleged to violate subsection A of this section by the adjacent property owners
     or development services division director shall be subject to a public hearing before the
     planning commission as to the validity of the alleged violation. If such light is determined to
     be in violation, the owner of the light shall take appropriate, corrective action as directed.



19.82.135 - Electronic message center requirements for on-premises signs.                              Commented [CW119]: This section was adopted in 2012
                                                                                                       after very long discussion and negotiation with the sign
A.   An electronic message center shall only display static images. An electronic message center       industry.
     shall not display scrolling text, video images, or scintillating images.
B.   The minimum image display duration shall be four seconds.
C.    The maximum image transition duration shall be three seconds. Transitions from one static
     image shall fade out and fade or dissolve in to the next static image without the use of
     flashing, animation, or movement.
D.    All electronic message centers shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that
     automatically determines the ambient illumination and must be programmed to automatically
     dim according to ambient light conditions. The nighttime illuminance of an electronic message
     center shall not increase ambient lighting conditions by more than three-tenths footcandles
     when measured perpendicular to the electronic message center face at a distance
     determined by the following formula:
     Measurement Distance (in feet) = The square root of [Area of electronic message center face
     in square feet) × 100]

E.    Where allowed as a conditional use, conditions may be imposed by the planning commission
     regarding hours of sign operation, sign height, sign size, and/or setbacks from property lines



                                                                                           Page 311
      to mitigate impacts on nearby residential properties, to protect critical viewsheds as
      established in the general plan, or to prevent potential traffic hazards.
F.    Electronic message center conditional use requirements, allowed sign types, and allowable
      sizes by zone are set forth in Table 19.82.135.
                            Table 19.82.135
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER CONDITIONAL USE REQUIREMENTS, ALLOWED SIGN
                 TYPES, AND ALLOWABLE SIZES BY ZONE

                                                                    Allowable EMC Size as a
           Allowed Sign      Conditional or Permitted Use
                                                                  Percentage of Total Allowable
               Types                  Approval
                                                                 Sign Size Per Table 19.82.190 1

             Monument                  Permitted                              50%

 MD-1,
                           Conditional use permit required if
 MD-3
              Ground       within 300 linear feet or less of a                50%
                            residence; otherwise, permitted

             Monument                  Permitted                              70%

     C-2                   Conditional use permit required if
              Ground       within 300 linear feet or less of a                50%
                           residence; otherwise, permitted.

             Monument                  Permitted                              80%

     C-3                   Conditional use permit required if
              Ground       within 300 linear feet or less of a                50%
                           residence; otherwise, permitted.

             Monument                  Permitted                             100%

     M-1                   Conditional use permit required if
              Ground       within 300 linear feet or less of a                75%
                           residence; otherwise, permitted.

             Monument                  Permitted                             100%

     M-2                   Conditional use permit required if
              Ground       within 300 linear feet or less of a                75%
                           residence; otherwise, permitted.




                                                                                         Page 312
All other
               None                        NA                                    NA
 zones




Table 19.82.135 footnotes:

     1.    The planning commission may approve an increase in the allowable EMC sign size
          through the conditional use process as described in Section 19.82.135E.



19.82.140 - Mobile sign.                                                                                Commented [CW120]: See “mobile sign” definition.

    One mobile sign may be used for each use for a period of sixty days following the issuance
of a permit to construct a permanent sign for that use. Upon inspection and approval of the
permanent sign, or upon expiration of the sixty-day period, whichever first occurs, the mobile sign
must be removed. Mobile signs may not employ animation, flashing lights or intermittent lights.



19.82.150 - Traffic hazard prohibited.                                                                  Commented [CW121]: Safety issue.

     Signs or other advertising structures shall not be erected at the intersection of any streets or
driveways in such manner as to obstruct free and clear vision, or at any location where by reason
of the position, shape or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal device, or make use of the words "Stop," "Drive-in," "Danger," or
any other words, phrases, symbols or characters in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or
confuse vehicle operators.



19.82.160 - Maintenance—Removal of sign.                                                                Commented [CW122]: This provision can be difficult to
                                                                                                        follow up on and enforce, and hasn’t been used very much
A.   All signs and advertising structures shall be maintained in good condition.                        in the past.

B.    Signs relating to a product no longer available for purchase, or to a business which has
     closed or moved, shall be removed or the advertising copy removed within thirty days of such
     unavailability, closure or relocation.
C.    Owners of signs or advertising copy not removed within the required thirty days shall be
     given written notice sent by certified mail. If not removed by the owner within the thirty-day
     period, the sign or copy will be removed by the countymetro township at the expense of the
     owner.



19.82.170 - Prohibited signs.



                                                                                            Page 313
    Signs not specifically allowed by this chapter are prohibited. Without restricting or limiting the
provisions of this section, the following signs are specifically prohibited: A-frame, snipe and
pedestal signs.



19.82.180 - Action to remove or abate violation.                                                         Commented [CW123]: As with 19.82.160 above, this
                                                                                                         provision is rarely used.
A.   The mayormetro township mayor or attorney shall be empowered to institute any appropriate
     action or proceeding in any case where any sign is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
     altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or in any case where any sign is used in violation
     of any county metro township ordinance, to accomplish the following purposes:
     1.    To prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
          conversion, maintenance or use;
     2.   To restrain, to correct or abate such violation;
     3.   To abate and remove unsafe or dangerous signs. If an unsafe or dangerous sign is not
          repaired or made safe within ten working days after giving notice as provided in
          subsection B of this section, the building inspector or development services division
          director may at once abate and remove the sign, and the person having charge, control
          or benefit of any such sign shall pay to the county metro township costs incurred in such
          removal within thirty calendar days after written notice of the costs is mailed to such
          person.
B.    Notice by the county metro township shall mean written notice sent by certified mail to
     persons having charge or control or benefit of any sign found by the development services
     division director to be unsafe.



19.82.185 - Off-premises signs—Billboards.                                                               Commented [CW124]: This section was adopted in 2004
                                                                                                         as a “cap and replace” measure regarding billboards. In
A.    Purpose. This section provides for the reasonable regulation of off-premises signs with the        other words, the total number of billboards allowed in the
     intent of enhancing the aesthetics of existing and future billboards, mitigating negative           County was restricted to the number that existed or had
     impacts, promoting safety and protecting property values that further the goals and planning        been approved but not built as of the date of enactment.
                                                                                                         Now each Metro is tracked separately.
     policies of Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township.
B.    Cap on Number of Off-Premises Signs. The number of off-premises signs allowed in
     unincorporated the Salt Lake Countymetro township and established or future townships
     shall be limited to the number of off-premises signs that are existing as defined herein as of
     May 18, 2004January 1, 2017. This cap shall automatically decrease as off-premises signs
     are annexed into a municipal jurisdiction or removed and not relocated.
C.    Location. Off-premises signs shall be allowed in the C-1 zone as a conditional use. Off-
     premises signs shall be allowed in the C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zones as a permitted use.
D.    Size. Off-premises signs shall not exceed six hundred seventy-two square feet in the C-2,
     C-3, M-1 and M-2 zones. Off-premises signs located in a C-1 zone shall not exceed three
     hundred square feet in size.
E.   Height. The maximum height of an off-premises sign shall be thirty-five feet in a C-1 zone.
     The maximum height of an off-premises sign shall be forty-five feet above the grade level of



                                                                                             Page 314
     the road in the C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zones or, when oriented for freeway viewing only and
     located within three hundred feet of the nearest freeway lane, twenty-five feet above freeway
     grade level or fifty feet overall, whichever is greater.
F.    Separation. The minimum distance between off-premises signs larger than three hundred
     square feet shall be five hundred lineal feet as measured along the same side of the street
     including intersections. The minimum distance between off-premises signs three hundred
     square feet or less in size shall be three hundred lineal feet as measured along the same
     side of the street including intersections. All off-premises signs must be at least one hundred
     fifty radial feet from any other off-premises sign.
G.    Setbacks. The minimum setback shall be eighteen inches for off-premises signs. The sign's
     front-yard setback shall be measured from the future right-of-way line (see Transportation
     Improvement Plan). The closest edge of an off-premises sign shall not project into any
     required setback area. The minimum setback between an off-premises sign and any
     residential zone boundary shall be one hundred fifty feet.
H.    Lighting. Lighting shall be confined to the sign face, and the lighting source shall not be
     directly visible.
I.   Design. Off-premises signs shall utilize either the "mono-pole" or the "bi-pole" design and
     shall be continually maintained structurally and on the copy face. The back of the sign and
     the structure behind the sign shall be painted a dark color. Tri-vision sign faces shall be
     permitted and, if illuminated, must be externally illuminated. Internally illuminated off-
     premises signs, electronic display (outdoor video advertising) and electronic message
     centers are only allowed adjacent to the interstate freeway system and limited to no more
     than one change to the copy face in a twenty-four hour period. Two-decked off-premises
     signs are prohibited in all zones.
J.   Credits for Removal. Prior to the removal of any off-premises sign, the owner shall obtain a
     permit for the demolition of the off-premises sign. Permits may be provided following
     application to the Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Division. The Salt
     Lake County Planning and Development Services Division shall by letter inform the affected
     community council chairmayorman and affected planning commission chairman that a permit
     for demolition of an off-premises sign has been issued. After any off-premises sign is
     demolished, the Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Division shall create
     a "billboard bank account" for the sign owner. The account shall reflect credits for the off-
     premises sign square footage as well as the date of removal. Any off-premises sign credits
     not used within thirty-six months of their creation shall expire and be of no further value or
     use. An off-premises sign owner may sell or otherwise transfer off-premises signs and/or            Commented [CW125]: Billboard companies have a
     billboard bank account credits. The transfer of any billboard bank account credits does not         limited time frame in which to use the “credits” earned by
     extend their thirty-six-month life as provided in this section. Demolition of an off-premises       tearing down an existing sign to build a new one.
     sign that has two advertising faces shall receive billboard bank account credits for the square
     footage of each sign face.
K.   Relocation. The owner of an existing off-premises sign may remove an existing off-premises
     sign from any site to an approved location only after a permit for relocation is obtained upon
     substantiation of compliance with this chapter. Prior to approval of a permit for relocation, the
     sign owner (applicant) shall submit to the countymetro township a notarized affidavit signed
     by the property owner, a copy of the lease agreement or other document to be signed by the
     property owner, indicating at a minimum the duration of the lease and renewal provisions.
     Additionally, prior to approval of a permit for relocation, Salt Lake County Planning and
     Development Services Division shall by letter inform the affected community council



                                                                                             Page 315
     chairmayorman and affected planning commission chairman that application for an off-
     premises sign permit has been received. Off-premises signs moved to approved locations
     shall conform to all off-premises sign requirements of the new location. Off-premises signs
     moved from one location to another must be installed in the new approved location within the
     period allotted by the International Building Code (IBC). A new off-premises sign permit shall
     only be issued if the applicant has billboard bank account credits of a sufficient number of
     square feet. When the permit for construction of a new off-premises sign is issued, the Salt
     Lake County Planning and Development Services Division shall deduct from the sign owner's
     billboard bank account the square footage of the new off-premises sign. If the new off-
     premises sign uses less than the entire available square footage credits, any remaining
     square footage credits shall remain in the sign owner's billboard bank account.
L.   County Metro Township Council Review and Monitoring. The metro townshipcounty council
     shall, on a regular six-month schedule be updated at a regular public meeting to changes in
     status and effectiveness of the provisions related to off-premises signs in unincorporated Salt
     Lake Countythe metro township.
M.    Severability and Conflict. This section and its various parts are hereby declared to be
     severable if a court of competent jurisdiction declares any subsection, clause, provision or
     portion of this section invalid or unconstitutional. No court decision will affect the validity of
     either this section as a whole or any parts not declared invalid or unconstitutional by that
     decision. If any part of this section is found to be in conflict with any other provision of the
     countymetro township, the most restrictive or highest standard will apply, prevail and govern.



19.82.190 - On-premises signs allowed in zoning districts.                                                Commented [CW126]: This table shows what types of
                                                                                                          signs are allowed in which zones, and also specifies how tall,
     On-premises signs allowed, by zones, shall be as set out in Table 19.82.190.                         how close to property line, and how large signs can be.




                                          Table 19.82.190

                                  SIGNS ALLOWED, BY ZONES


ZONE          SIGN                 SIZE             HEIGHT      LOCATION              OTHER


                                                                                   Sign must be
                            32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.                               removed 6 months
                            ft. for each 10 ft. of                             from final building or
 (1) All                                                         On private       conditional use
           Construction     frontage over 30 to 12 ft. max.
 zones                                                            property        inspection that
                             a maximum of 96
                                 sq. ft. per lot                               allows occupancy or
                                                                                 when 100% of the
                                                                                    facilities are




                                                                                              Page 316
                                                  occupied, whichever
                                                      occurs first


Construction signs
    located on the
  development for
  subdivisions of 5
                                                     Signs must be
 lots or more, may
                                     On private    removed within 30
be 32 sq. ft. plus 2 12 ft. max.
                                      property    days after the last lot
   sq. ft. for each
                                                         is sold
additional lot over 5
  to a maximum of
128 sq. ft. total per
      subdivision


                                                    All signs must be
       Signs for                                     approved by the
  subdivisions of 5                               planning commission
lots or more and not                                for a period not to
    located on the                                   exceed one year
 development may                     On private        which may be
                       12 ft. max.
 be 32 sq. ft. plus 1                 property        renewed upon
  sq. ft. for each lot                            application received
      over 5 to a                                 at least 30 days prior
 maximum of 64 sq.                                    to the previous
      ft. per sign                                 approval expiration
                                                            date


Construction signs
   for multifamily                                  All signs must be
 developments of                                     approved by the
more than 20 units                                planning commission
and not located on                   On private     for a period not to
                       12 ft. max.
 the development                      property      exceed one year.
shall not exceed a                                   Approval may be
maximum of 10 ft.                                     renewed by the
 vertical and 20 ft.                              planning commission
     horizontal




                                                                Page 317
                                                        Attached to
Nameplate on       3 sq. ft. maximum
                                                           main
  premises              per use
                                                         structure


                                                         On private
                                                        property and Shall be removed 15
   Political      16 sq. ft. maximum       6 ft. max.     not closer   days following the
                                                        than 10 ft. to  final voting day
                                                         a driveway


 Property on-                                            On private
                   6 sq. ft. maximum       6 ft. max.
  premises                                                property


                                           3 ft. when
  Service on                                             On private
                   6 sq. ft. maximum          free-
  premises                                                property
                                           standing


                                                                        One sign per street
                                                                            frontage and
                                                                             landscaped
                                                                       appropriately for the
                                                                         site. Allowed with
 Monument on
                                                                           public or quasi-
premises (see
                 One per lot, 32 sq.                     On private     public buildings or
other zones for
                  ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for                property and uses, planned unit
    specific
                     every 10 ft. of                    set back 6 ft. developments, golf
 requirements                              6 ft. max.
                 frontage over 30 ft.                       from       courses, cemeteries,
     which
                to a maximum of 64                        property     dwelling groups, day
  supersede
                          sq. ft.                           lines          care/preschool
     these
                                                                          centers, or other
requirements)
                                                                       uses permitted in the
                                                                       zone or as approved
                                                                       in conjunction with a
                                                                         conditional permit
                                                                               approval


    Flat on-                                                            Allowed with public
premises (see                                           Attached to a     or quasi-public
other zones for    5% of a wall area                                    buildings, planned
                                                           building
    specific                                                            unit developments,
 requirements                                                              golf courses,


                                                                                    Page 318
             which                                                             cemeteries, dwelling
           supersede                                                              groups, or other
             these                                                             uses permitted in the
         requirements)                                                         zone or as approved
                                                                               in conjunction with a
                                                                                 conditional permit
                                                                                     approval

          Illumination may be built into or attached onto the signs listed above when:
                          (1) Lighting is allowed in the specific zone; or
(2) The development occupies more than 500 feet continuous frontage on the street the sign
will face and the sign is not closer than 200 feet to a property not allowed an illuminated sign;
 (3) Flat signs that are exposed to dwellings on adjacent properties shall not be illuminated
                      (property divided by public streets are not adjacent).


                                                                                Illumination may be
                                                                                built into or attached
                                                                                   onto a sign if the
(2) S-                    One per lot, 32 sq.
                                                                                    development
 1-G,                     ft., plus 1 sq. ft. for
           Ground or                              20 ft. max.                   occupies more than
 R-4-                         each 10 ft. of                        15 ft.
         projecting on-                            ground                        500 ft. continuous
 8.5,                     frontage over 30 ft.                     setback
           premises                                  sign                       frontage on a street
 R-M,                      on a street but not
                                                                               that the sign will face
RMH                       to exceed 64 sq. ft.
                                                                                unless exposed to a
                                                                               dwelling on adjacent
                                                                                        property


                                                                                  Signs that are
                                                                               exposed to dwellings
            Flat on-                                             Attached to a
                          15% of a wall area                                       on adjacent
           premises                                                 building
                                                                                properties shall not
                                                                                  be illuminated


          Window on-      8 sq. ft. maximum                                     Signs shall not be
           premises            per use                                             illuminated


                          One per lot, 32 sq.                      18-inch
         Monument on-                                                           A monument sign
                           ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for   6 ft. max.     minimum
           premises                                                            can only be utilized if
                              every 10 ft. of                      setback         no ground or
                          frontage over 30 to




                                                                                             Page 319
                            a maximum of 64                                    projecting sign is
                                 sq. ft.                                             used


                                                                             Illumination may be
                                                                             built into or attached
                                                                                 to signs unless
                            One per lot, 48 sq.                                   exposed to a
(3) C-                      ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for                           dwelling on adjacent
           Ground or
 1, C-                          each 4 ft. of                       15 ft.        property or a
         projecting on-                              25 ft. max.
 1-L,                        frontage over 30,                     setback      residential zone
           premises
 C-V                        but not to exceed                                 boundary in which
                                  128 sq. ft.                                    case it may be
                                                                                   allowed with
                                                                                 conditional use
                                                                                     approval


          Window on-        12 sq. ft. maximum
           premises              per use


                                                                              Illumination may be
                                                                             built into or attached
                                                                                  to signs unless
                                                                                   exposed to a
                                                                             dwelling on adjacent
                                                                                   property or a
                                                                                 residential zone
         Flat or wall on-
                            15% of a wall area                                 boundary in which
            premises
                                                                                  case it may be
                                                                                    allowed with
                                                                                  conditional use
                                                                                approval. A flat or
                                                                               wall sign may only
                                                                             be used if an awning
                                                                                 sign is not used


         Temporary on-                                                           See Section
           premises                                                               19.82.140




                                                                                           Page 320
                         One per lot, 32 sq.
                                                                           A monument sign
                          ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for
                                                                18-inch   can only be utilized if
        Monument on-          every 4 ft. of
                                                   6 ft. max.   minimum       no ground or
          premises       frontage over 30 to
                                                                setback     projecting sign is
                          a maximum of 64
                                                                                  used
                                  sq. ft.


                                                            8 ft.     Attached to building.
                        25% of a wall area
                                            8 ft. min.   maximum      Primary graphics on
                          may be covered
                                            above the    projection face or street side of
         Awning on-     with an awning, and
                                            ground 0     from bldg. structure. An awning
          premises       50% of an awning
                                             ft. above   May be on     sign may only be
                          may be covered
                                            bldg. wall three walls of used if a flat or wall
                            with graphics
                                                         a building     sign is not used


All regulated signs in C-V zones located in canyon areas of the countymetro township require
                                   conditional use approval.


                       48 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                        ft. for each foot of
                      frontage over 30 on
                             a street to a                             Illumination may be
                      maximum of 256 sq.                               built into or attached
                      ft. Property abutting                                to signs unless
                        a freeway with no                                   exposed to a
                           frontage on a                               dwelling on adjacent
                         dedicated street                                   property or a
                       may have one sign                    18-inch
                                                                          residential zone
                                                         setback, 1
       C-2 Ground or as a conditional use                               boundary in which
(4) C-                                                  sign   per 300
       projecting on- located within 30 ft. 30 ft. max.                    case it may be
2, C-3                of the freeway not to              ft. frontage
         premises                                                            allowed with
                       exceed 256 sq. ft.                   or part
                                                                           conditional use
                      and the height shall                  thereof
                                                                        approval. Rotation
                         not exceed 25 ft.                              and subdued light
                          above freeway                                   change may be
                        grade. A property                                    allowed with
                       having frontage on                                  conditional use
                       a dedicated street                                     approval.
                          which connects
                       directly to an on or
                      off ramp of I-15 and
                        is within 600 ft. of


                                                                                        Page 321
                 the main traveled
                  way of I-15 may
                have one sign up to
                 60 ft. high, but not
                  to exceed 25 ft.
                   above freeway
                grade level and 400
                         sq. ft.


                48 sq. ft. plus 11/2
                sq. ft. for each foot
                of frontage over 30
                   on a street to a
               maximum of 300 sq.
               ft. Property abutting
                 a freeway with no
                     frontage on a
                                                                Illumination may be
                  dedicated street
                                                                built into or attached
                may have one sign
                                                                    to signs unless
               as a conditional use
                                                                     exposed to a
               located within 30 ft.
                                                                dwelling on adjacent
               of the freeway not to
                                                                     property or a
                exceed 300 sq. ft.                 No setback
                                                                   residential zone
               and the height shall                required, 1
C-3 Ground or                                                    boundary in which
                  not exceed 25 ft.               sign per 300
projecting on-                        30 ft. max.                   case it may be
                    above freeway                  ft. frontage
  premises                                                            allowed with
                 grade. A property                    or part
                                                                    conditional use
                having frontage on                    thereof
                                                                 approval. Rotation
                a dedicated street
                                                                 and subdued light
                   which connects
                                                                   change may be
                directly to an on or
                                                                      allowed with
               off ramp of I-15 and
                                                                    conditional use
                 is within 600 ft. of
                                                                       approval.
                 the main traveled
                  way of I-15 may
               have one sign up to
                60 ft. high, but not
                   to exceed 25 ft.
                    above freeway
               grade level and 400
                         sq. ft.




                                                                              Page 322
                                                      Balloon signs are
  Balloon on-
                                                    subject to conditional
   premises
                                                        use approval


                                                        Roof sign may
                                                        substitute for a
                                                    ground or projecting
                                                    sign but is subject to
                                                        conditional use
                                                         approval. The
                                     10 ft.
   Roof on-      Same as ground or                  planning commission
                                   above roof
   premises        projecting sign                   may deny a sign or
                                     max.
                                                     set more restrictive
                                                      conditions. Signs
                                                     shall be installed so
                                                       that the support
                                                        structure is not
                                                             visible


 Window on-      16 sq. ft. maximum
  premises            per use


                                                     Maximum of 1 sign
                                                       per street front,
                                                          permanently
                                                       anchored to the
                                                    ground, and subject
                                                      to conditional use
                                       Maximum             approval.
                                       ht. equals   Illumination may be
                  1 sq. ft. for each
  Promotional                           the sign    built into or attached
                linear ft. of frontage
sign boards on-                         setback,        to signs unless
                to a maximum of 20
   premises                              but not         exposed to a
                   sq. ft. per sign
                                       more than    dwelling on adjacent
                                          10 ft.         property or a
                                                       residential zone
                                                     boundary in which
                                                        case it may be
                                                          allowed with
                                                        conditional use
                                                            approval




                                                                  Page 323
                                                                          Illumination may be
                                                                         built into or attached
                                                                              to signs unless
                                                                               exposed to a
                                                                         dwelling on adjacent
                                                                               property or a
                                                                             residential zone
Flat or wall on-
                   20% of a wall area                                      boundary in which
   premises
                                                                              case it may be
                                                                                allowed with
                                                                              conditional use
                                                                            approval. A flat or
                                                                           wall sign may only
                                                                         be used if an awning
                                                                             sign is not used


Temporary on-                                                                See Section
  premises                                                                    19.82.140


                                                              18-inch
                   32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                                                            minimum
                    ft. for every 4 ft. of                               A monument sign
                                                           setback, 1
Monument on-       frontage over 30 on                                  can be utilized in lieu
                                             6 ft. max.   sign per 300
  premises               a street to a                                     of a ground or
                                                           ft. frontage
                   maximum of 64 sq.                                       projecting sign
                                                              or part
                               ft.
                                                              thereof


                                                       8 ft.
                                                    maximum
                                                                 Attached to building.
                   25% of a wall area               projection
                                       8 ft. min.                Primary graphics on
                     may be covered                 from bldg.
                                       above the                 face or street side of
 Awning on-        with an awning, and             Must be on
                                       ground 0                  structure. An awning
  premises          50% of an awning                  private
                                        ft. above                  sign may only be
                     may be covered                  property.
                                       bldg. wall                 used if a flat or wall
                       with graphics                May be on
                                                                    sign is not used
                                                  three walls of
                                                    a building




                                                                                       Page 324
                           48 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                            ft. for each foot of
                          frontage over 30 on
                                 a street to a
                          maximum of 256 sq.
                          ft. A property having
                                frontage on a
                             dedicated street                      15 ft.
                              which connects                  setback, 1
           Ground or                                                       Illumination may be
(5) M-                     directly to an on or    35. ft.   sign per 300
         projecting on-                                                    built into or attached
1, M-2                    off ramp of I-15 and     max.       ft. frontage
           premises                                                                to sign.
                            is within 600 ft. of                 or part
                            the main traveled                    thereof
                             way of I-15 may
                          have one sign up to
                            60 ft. high, but not
                              to exceed 25 ft.
                               above freeway
                          grade level and 400
                                    sq. ft.


                                                                             Balloon signs are
          Balloon on-
                                                                           subject to conditional
           premises
                                                                               use approval


                                                                               Roof sign may
                                                                               substitute for a
                                                                           ground or projecting
                                                                           sign but is subject to
                                                                               conditional use
                                                                                approval. The
                                              10 ft.
           Roof on-       Same as ground or                                planning commission
                                            above roof
           premises         projecting sign                                 may deny a sign or
                                              max.
                                                                            set more restrictive
                                                                             conditions. Signs
                                                                            shall be installed so
                                                                              that the support
                                                                               structure is not
                                                                                    visible




                                                                                         Page 325
          Window on-        16. sq. ft. maximum
           premises               per use


                                                                                   A flat or wall sign
         Flat or wall on-                                                         may only be used if
                            20% of a wall area
            premises                                                             an awning sign is not
                                                                                          used


         Temporary on-                                                                See Section
           premises                                                                    19.82.140


                                                                       18-inch
                            32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                                                                     minimum
                             ft. for every 4 ft. of                               A monument sign
                                                                    setback, 1
         Monument on-       frontage over 30 on                                  can be utilized in lieu
                                                      6 ft. max.   sign per 300
           premises               a street to a                                     of a ground or
                                                                    ft. frontage
                            maximum of 64 sq.                                       projecting sign
                                                                       or part
                                        ft.
                                                                       thereof


                                                                8 ft.     Attached to building.
                            25% of a wall area
                                                8 ft. min.   maximum      Primary graphics on
                              may be covered
                                                above the    projection face or street side of
          Awning on-        with an awning, and
                                                ground 0     from bldg. structure. An awning
           premises          50% of an awning
                                                 ft. above   May be on     sign may only be
                              may be covered
                                                bldg. wall three walls of used if a flat or wall
                                with graphics
                                                             a building     sign is not used


           Same as
(6) F-                                                                             All regulated signs
        Section (3) of
R, F-                                                                              require conditional
       this table for C-
  M                                                                                   use approval
          1 and CV


                                                                                       Illumination
                                                                                  excluding luminous
 (7)                                                                               tubes may be built
MD-1,        Flat on-                                                              into or attached to
                             5% of a wall area
(7 (7)      premises                                                              signs. Sign design
MD-3                                                                                 shall reflect the
                                                                                  architectural design
                                                                                     scheme of the



                                                                                                Page 326
                                                                                project. All signs
                                                                               require conditional
                                                                                  use approval


                                                                                    Illumination
                                                                               excluding luminous
                                                                   18 inch      tubes may be built
                         32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                                                                 minimum        into or attached to
                         ft. for every 4 ft. of
                                                                setback, 1     signs. Sign design
         Monument on-   frontage over 30 on
                                                  6 ft. max.   sign per 300       shall reflect the
           premises           a street to a
                                                                ft. frontage   architectural design
                        maximum of 64 sq.
                                                                   or part        scheme of the
                                    ft.
                                                                   thereof       project. All signs
                                                                               require conditional
                                                                                   use approval


                                                                                    Illumination
                                                                               excluding exposed
                                                                                 neon or lighted
                                                                     25 ft.    accent stripes may
                        32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                                                                 minimum          be built into or
                         ft. for every 4 ft. of
                                                                setback, 1      attached to signs.
(8) O-   Monument on-   frontage over 30 on
                                                  6 ft. max.   sign per 300     Sign design shall
 R-D       premises           a street to a
                                                                ft. frontage         reflect the
                        maximum of 64 sq.
                                                                   or part     architectural design
                                    ft.
                                                                   thereof        scheme of the
                                                                                project. All signs
                                                                               require conditional
                                                                                   use approval


                                                                          Illumination
                                                                      excluding exposed
                                             Not higher                 neon or lighted
                                             than 15 ft. Attached to accent stripes may
                                             above the the wall of a     be built into or
            Flat on-     5% of a wall area                             attached to signs.
                                              finished    building
           premises     which faces a street                             Signs that are
                                              grade of which faces
                                                 the       a street  exposed to dwellings
                                              building                    on adjacent
                                                                      properties shall not
                                                                     be illuminated. Sign
                                                                      design shall reflect


                                                                                            Page 327
                                                                                     the architectural
                                                                                    design scheme of
                                                                                  the project. All signs
                                                                                   require conditional
                                                                                       use approval




Chapter 19.83 - WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES                                                       Commented [CW127]: This chapter was designed for
                                                                                                             cellular and mobile phone towers and antennas.



19.83.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of this chapter is to establish general requirements for the siting of wireless
telecommunications facilities. The intent of this chapter is to:
    A.    Encourage the location of facilities in nonresidential areas;
    B.    Minimize the total number of monopole facilities throughout the community;
    C.    Encourage the joint use of new and existing communication sites;
    D.    Encourage providers of facilities to locate them where the adverse impact on the
         community is minimal;
    E.    Encourage providers of facilities to use innovative design to minimize adverse visual
         impact;
    F.    Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunication services to provide such
         services to the community quickly, effectively, and efficiently.



19.83.020 - Definitions.

    As used in this chapter:
     "Antenna" means a transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunications that radiates
or captures radio signals.
    "Lattice tower" means a self-supporting multiple sided, open steel frame structure used to
support telecommunications equipment.
     "Monopole facility" means an antenna or series of individual antennas mounted on a single
cylindrical pole. Also includes associated equipment. For the purposes of this chapter, if a facility
does not fit the definition of a roof or wall mounted facility it shall be considered a monopole facility.   Commented [CW128]: This is a catch-all to cover the
                                                                                                             various types of “unique” applications that may come in.
     "Roof mounted facility" means an antenna or series of individual antennas mounted on a flat
or pitched roof, mechanical room or penthouse of a building or structure. Also includes associated
equipment.




                                                                                                Page 328
     "Stealth facility" means a wall, roof, or monopole facility which is disguised as another object
or otherwise concealed from view. Examples of stealth facilities include, but are not limited to,
trees, synthetic rocks, or architectural elements such as dormers, steeples, and chimneys.
     "Wall mounted facility" means an antenna or series of individual antennas mounted against
the vertical wall of a building or structure. Also includes associated equipment.
    "Wireless telecommunications facility" means an unmanned structure which consists of
equipment used primarily for the transmission, reception or transfer of voice or data through radio
wave or wireless transmissions. Such sites typically require the construction of transmission
support structures to which antenna equipment is attached.



19.83.030 - Applicability.

     The requirements of this chapter apply to both commercial and private wireless
telecommunications services such as "cellular" or "PCS" (personal communications services)
communications and paging systems. All facilities shall comply with the following regulations and
all other ordinances of the countymetro township and any pertinent regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission and the Federal Aviation Administration.



19.83.040 - General plan required.                                                                      Commented [CW129]: This was important when the
                                                                                                        ordinance was first adopted because the technology was
     A site location general plan shall be submitted by each company desiring placement of              still relatively new, and the planning commission and
wireless telecommunication facilities. The general plan shall be submitted to the planning              County staff wanted to get a feeling for how many of these
commission and development services division prior to processing any permits for permitted or           things might be built. Since most networks are in place
                                                                                                        now, and people have grown accustomed to the towers,
conditional use locations. The general plan shall include inventory of existing and anticipated sites   this section has not been looked at as much.
for the unincorporated countymetro township and within one-half mile of the unincorporated
countymetro township boundary. The plan shall indicate area coverage, if known, location,
antenna height above existing grade, and antenna type for each site and be updated upon request
from the planning commission. Every general plan shall be considered proprietary information
and not be part of the public record.



19.83.050 - Allowable uses.

    The uses specified in Table 19.83.050 are allowed provided that they comply with all
requirements of this chapter.




                                         TABLE 19.83.050

    P—Permitted Use                       C—Conditional Use                      N- Not allowed




                                                                                            Page 329
         Zones             Wall Mount       Roof Mount      Monopole        Lattice Tower

          F-1                P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

        All FMs              P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

         All FRs             P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

        All R-1s             P3, CS           P3, CS          C3, CS              N

        All R-2s             P3, CS           P3, CS          C3, CS              N

        R-4-8.5              P3, CS           P3, CS          C3, CS              N

         S-1-G               P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

          R-M                   P                P              C                 N

         O-R-D                  P                P              C                 N

          RMH                   N                N              N                 N

         All As              P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

         All FAs             P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

        All MDs              P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

      C-1, C-2, C-3             P                P              C                 N

          C-V                P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

         All Ms                 P                P            P4, C               N




1—Permitted use only on nonresidential buildings.
2—Conditional use on residential buildings.
3—Allowed only in conjunction with public or quasi-public uses (see Sections 19.04.440 and
19.04.445).
4—Permitted use if not within 300 feet of a residential zone boundary.



                                                                                      Page 330
S—Stealth facilities are conditional uses and not required to be located with public or quasi-          Commented [CW130]: The ordinance encourages using
public uses.                                                                                            stealth facilities (cell sites disguised as something else) by
                                                                                                        allowing them in areas where towers would otherwise not
19.83.060 - Facility types and standards.                                                               be allowed.

    Wireless telecommunications facilities are characterized by the type and location of the
antenna structure. There are four general types of antenna structures: wall mounted; roof
mounted; monopoles; and lattice towers. Standards for the installation of each type of antenna
are as follows:
    A.   Wall Mounted Antenna. The following provisions apply to wall mounted antennas: (see
         Figure 1)
         1.    Wall mounted antennas shall not extend above the wall line of the building or
              structure or extend more than four feet horizontally from the face of the building or
              structure.
         2.   Antennas, equipment and the supporting structure shall be painted to match the
              color of the building or structure or the background against which they are most
              commonly seen. Antennas and the supporting structures on buildings should be
              architecturally compatible with the building.
         3.   Antennas mounted directly on existing parapet walls, penthouses, or mechanical
              equipment rooms, with no portion of the antenna extending above the roofline of
              such structures, shall be considered a wall mounted antenna.
         4.    Stealth wall mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary from           Commented [CW131]: Again, stealth facilities are
              the provisions of this section as determined by development services for permitted        encouraged by being given some latitude with regard to
              uses and the planning commission for conditional uses. Stealth wall mounted               height, size, etc.
              antennas are not required to be located with public or quasi-public uses in all R-l, R-
              2, and R-4-8.5 zones (see Table 19.83.050).
    B.   Roof Mounted Antenna. The following provisions apply to roof mounted antennas: (see            Commented [CW132]: We generally see more wall
         Figures 2 and 3)                                                                               mount than roof mount facilities.

         1.    Roof mounted antennas shall be allowed on top of existing penthouses or
              mechanical equipment rooms provided the antennas and antenna mounting
              structures shall not extend more than eight feet above the existing roofline of the
              penthouse or mechanical equipment room.
         2.   For antennas not mounted on a penthouse or mechanical equipment room and on
              a flat roof:
              a.   Setback. The antennas shall be mounted at least five feet from the exterior wall
                   or parapet wall of a building or structure.
              b.   Height. The height shall be measured from the top of the antenna to the roofline
                   of the building or structure, or to the top of the parapet wall if a parapet wall
                   exists. For antennas mounted between five and fourteen feet from the exterior
                   wall or parapet wall, the maximum height of the antenna is equal to the distance
                   the antenna is set back from the exterior wall or parapet wall. For antennas
                   setback more than fourteen feet the maximum height shall be fourteen feet.
                   Antennas extending more than nineteen feet above the roofline require
                   conditional use approval (see Figure 2).




                                                                                            Page 331
              c.   Roof-mounted antennas extending above the roofline of any penthouse or
                   mechanical equipment room require conditional use approval.
         3.   Roof mounted antennas on a pitched roof shall be allowed provided the antennas
              and antenna support structures do not extend higher than the peak of the roof
              measured by a horizontal line from the peak extending over the roof (see Figure 3).
         4.    Roof mounted antennas shall be constructed and/or colored to match the
              surroundings in which they are located.
         5.    Stealth roof mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary from
              the provisions of this section as determined by development services division for
              permitted uses and the planning commission for conditional uses. Stealth roof
              mounted antennas are not required to be located with public or quasi-public uses in
              all R-1, R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones (see Table 19.83.050).
    C.   Monopole. The following provisions apply to monopoles:
         1.    The height limit for monopoles is sixty feet except the planning commission may
              allow a monopole up to eighty feet in the C-2, C-3, M-1, and M-2 zones if it finds: (1)
              that the monopole will blend in with surrounding structures, poles, or trees and is
              compatible with surrounding uses, (2) the monopole will be available for co-location
              with other companies, and (3) the monopole will be setback at least three hundred
              feet from any residential zone boundary. The height shall be measured from the top
              of the structure including antennas, to the original grade directly adjacent to the
              monopole.
         2.    In all R-1, R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones, monopoles will only be allowed in conjunction
              with an existing public or quasi-public use. Public and quasi-public uses, as defined
              in Sections 19.04.440 and 19.04.450, include but are not limited to churches,
              schools, utilities, and parks.
         3.   No monopoles shall be allowed in the front yard setback of any lot.
         4.   Monopoles shall be setback from any residential structure a distance equal to its
              height.
         5.   Stealth monopole facilities are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary from the
              provisions of this section as determined by development services division for
              permitted uses and the planning commission for conditional uses. Stealth
              monopoles are not required to be located with public or quasi-public uses in all R-1,
              R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones (see Table 19.83.050).
    D.   Lattice Tower. Lattice towers are not allowed.



19.83.070 - Color.

     Monopoles, antennas, and any associated buildings or equipment shall be painted to blend
with the surroundings which they are most commonly seen. The color shall be determined on a
case-by-case basis by the planning commission for conditional uses and development services
division for permitted uses. Within six months after the facility has been constructed, the planning
commission or the development services division may require the color be changed if it is               Commented [CW133]: This provision can be subjective,
determined that the original color does not blend with the surroundings.                                and for the most part is used to ensure that the poles are
                                                                                                        painted a dull, neutral color.


                                                                                            Page 332
19.83.080 - Sites in the foothills and canyons.

    For the purpose of this chapter the foothills and canyons are defined as the areas shown on
the maps in the document entitled "Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township Foothill and
Canyon Development Standards."
    A.    Any grading for telecommunication facilities, including access roads and trenching for
         utilities, shall comply with the Uniform Building Code. Telecommunication facilities in the
         foothills and canyons shall comply with the FR zone requirements for grading (Section
         19.12.100), natural vegetation (Section 19.12.110) and utilities (Section 19.12.120).
         Everything possible should be done to minimize disturbance of the natural environment.
    B.    A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structures is required for all           Commented [CW134]: This is typical for most applicants
         sites in the foothills and canyons. The simulation shall show all structures including but       to provide on all applications, but is especially helpful with
         not limited to monopoles, antennas, and equipment buildings.                                     canyon properties.

    C.    Everything possible should be done to minimize disturbance of the visual environment.
         Site placement and color should be carefully considered to blend in with the
         surroundings.
    D.    Continuous outside lighting is prohibited unless required by the FAA for the monopole.



19.83.090 - Additional requirements.

    The following shall be considered by the planning commission for conditional uses:
    A.    Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and mass of existing buildings
         and utility structures.
    B.    Location of the antenna on other existing structures in the same vicinity such as other
         monopoles, buildings, water towers, utility poles, athletic field lights, parking lot lights,
         etc. where possible without significantly impacting antenna transmission or reception.
    C.     Location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation, topography including ridge
         lines, and buildings to obtain the best visual screening.
    D.    Spacing between monopoles which creates detrimental impacts to adjoining properties.
    E.   Installation of, but not limited to, curb, gutter, sidewalk, landscaping, and fencing as per
         Sections 19.76.210 and 19.84.050.



19.83.100 - Accessory buildings.

    Accessory buildings to antenna structures must comply with the required setback, height and
landscaping requirements of the zoning district in which they are located. All utility lines on the lot
leading to the accessory building and antenna structure shall be underground.




                                                                                              Page 333
19.83.110 - Non-maintained or abandoned facilities.                                                  Commented [CW135]: This provision is difficult to
                                                                                                     enforce for two reasons: first, it is difficult to know when a
      The building official may require each non-maintained or abandoned telecommunications          site is no longer in use, and second, bonds posted by law
facility to be removed from the building or premise when such a facility has not been repaired or    only have a two-year shelf life, and this provision is designed
put into use by the owner or agent within ninety calendar days after notice of non-maintenance or    for long-term guarantee.
abandonment is given to the owner or agent. The applicant shall post a site specific bond when
a permit is issued to guarantee removal of the facility and site restoration. The type of bond and
amount shall be determined upon review by countymetro township staff. No bond shall be
required for roof or wall mounted facilities.



19.83.120 - Building permit required.

     A building permit from the development services division is required for all wireless
telecommunication facilities including, but not limited to, monopoles, and roof and wall mounted
antennas.



19.83.130 - Illustrations.

     The illustrations, Figures 1, 2, and 3, are intended to demonstrate graphically the intent of
this chapter.




                                                                                         Page 334
Page 335
Page 336
Page 337
Chapter 19.84 - CONDITIONAL USES                                                                         Commented [CW136]: This entire chapter is based on
                                                                                                         the specific requirements of the State Land Use and
                                                                                                         Development Management Act.

19.84.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a reasonable application, review, and approval
process for land uses that are specified as "conditional," such that proposed new land uses meet
countymetro township standards and are properly integrated into the community and that those
that appear to violate countymetro township standards are effectively mitigated or prohibited.
Conditional uses shall be approved on a case-by-case basis provided the applicant adequately
demonstrates that negative impacts of the use can be mitigated through the imposition of
reasonable conditions of approval.



19.84.020 - Conditional use permit required when.

    A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional uses in the district
regulations or elsewhere in this title.



19.84.030 - Application requirements—Fee.                                                                Commented [CW137]: State law places an emphasis on
                                                                                                         “complete” applications and obligates the municipality to
   Only when the following elements are satisfied is a conditional use application deemed                render decisions in a timely manner once a “complete”
complete:                                                                                                application has been received.

     A.   Application for a conditional use permit shall be made by the property owner or certified
          agent thereof in writing upon the form(s) designated by the director or director's
          designee.
     B.   Accompanying Documents. Detailed site plans and specifications drawn to scale, unless
          waived by the director or director's designee, shall be submitted with the application.
     C.    Fee. The initial application fee for any conditional use permit, as provided for in Section
          3.52.040 of this code, shall be paid. The payment of a partial application fee, or the
          submittal of plans for a pre-submittal review, does not constitute a complete application.



19.84.040 - Application review.                                                                          Commented [CW138]: This section is intended to
                                                                                                         provide an outline of the steps involved, but not an
A.    The director or the director's designee shall administer an application review procedure in        exhaustive list of every agency to which an application may
     which the proposed use and the proposed site development plan are evaluated for                     be referred.
     compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes and for anticipated detrimental effects.
B.   The application review procedure shall contain the following components:
     1.   Referral of the application to all affected entities;
     2.   A review of the proposed site plan for compliance with applicable sections of the zoning
          ordinance;



                                                                                             Page 338
     3.   A review of the proposed use and site plan to ascertain potential negative impacts and
          whether reasonable conditions can be imposed to mitigate those impacts.
C.   The application review procedure may include the following:
     1.   Referral of the application to government or regulating entities for recommendations;
     2.   A pre-application meeting, in which preliminary site plans are reviewed and discussed
          prior to finished plans being submitted for review;
     3.   An on-site review of the proposal by the director, director's designee or staff;
     4.    A requirement that the applicant submit impact studies or other technical studies
          regarding grading, drainage, traffic, geologic hazards, etc.
D.     The director, director's designee or staff shall present a review, summary and
     recommendation to the planning commission after having provided the applicant with a copy
     as required by state law. The recommendation shall remain part of the public record.



19.84.050 - Approval/denial authority.                                                                  Commented [CW139]: This section specifies that the
                                                                                                        planning commission is the approval authority for
    The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions              conditional uses, and delegates to the planning staff the
conditional use applications.                                                                           responsibility to ensure that the conditions of approval are
                                                                                                        incorporated into the final site plan and conditional use
     A.   Planning Commission Approval.                                                                 permit letter.
          1.   The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during
               a public meeting.
          2.    The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented
               through the public meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the
               applicant, the recommendation of the director or director's designee, and input from
               interested parties and affected entities.
          3.    If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final
               approval letter upon satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of
               approval.
          4.   If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the
               planning commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month
               extension may be granted upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the
               original filing fee.
          5.    A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use
               application within a reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning
               commission is authorized to review and take action on an application as outlined in
               Section 19.84.040 after having notified the applicant of the meeting date.
          6.    Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the
               planning commission, the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the
               standards in Section 19.84.060 (above) may result in an application being denied.
     B.   Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:                                          Commented [CW140]: These three possible courses of
                                                                                                        action match those found in the state code.




                                                                                             Page 339
          1.    Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property
               is proposed for development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in
               Section 19.84.060; or
          2.    Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including
               the manner and design in which the property is proposed for development, can be
               mitigated with the imposition of reasonable conditions to bring about compliance
               with the standards outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
          3.   Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated
               with the imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance
               with the standards outlined in Section 19.84.060.



19.84.060 - Standards for approval.                                                                        Commented [CW141]: These standards were put in place
                                                                                                           at the time the state law was changed to require all
    Prior to approval, all conditional uses and accompanying site development plans must be                conditions of approval be based on standards found in the
found to conform to the following standards:                                                               ordinance. In the ideal ordinance, these “general”
                                                                                                           standards would be replaced with a more robust set of
     A.    The proposed site development plan shall comply with all applicable provisions of the           standards upon which conditions of approval could be
          zoning ordinance, including parking, building setbacks, and building height.                     based.

     B.   The proposed use and site development plan shall comply with all other applicable laws
          and ordinances.
     C.    The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic hazard
          due to poor site design or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby road system
          which exceed the amounts called for under the countymetro township transportation
          master plan.
     D.     The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to the
          safety of persons who will work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose a serious
          threat to the safety of residents or properties in the vicinity by failure to adequately
          address the following issues: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope conditions,
          liquifaction potential, site grading/topography, storm drainage/flood control, high ground
          water, environmental health hazards, or wetlands.
     E.    The proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact properties in
          the vicinity of the site through lack of compatibility with nearby buildings in terms of size,
          scale, height, or noncompliance with community general plan standards.



19.84.075 - Graffiti preventative materials or design.                                                     Commented [CW142]: This is rarely specifically stated in
                                                                                                           most planning commission approvals because it is generally
A.    Whenever the planning commission determines that there is a reasonable likelihood that               a given that builders design with graffiti prevention in mind.
     graffiti will be placed on the surfaces of proposed improvements it shall require, as part of the
     conditional use approval, that the applicant apply an anti-graffiti material, approved by the
     development services division, to each of the surfaces to be constructed. The anti-graffiti
     material shall be used on surfaces from ground level to a height of nine feet. The planning
     commission may approve dense planting or appropriate design measures in place of anti-
     graffiti materials.



                                                                                              Page 340
B.    Whenever the planning commission becomes aware of graffiti having been placed on any
     surfaces constructed as part of development approved as a conditional use, it may require
     that the applicant or his/her successor in interest apply an anti-graffiti material to such
     surfaces where no such material was previously required.



19.84.080 - Appeals.                                                                                   Commented [CW143]: Establishes the appeal authority
                                                                                                       and process.
     Any adversely affected person shall have the right to appeal to the land use hearing officer
any decision rendered by the planning commission, the director or director's designee by filing in
writing, stating the reasons for the appeal with the land use hearing officer, within ten days
following the date upon which the decision is made. Appeals to the land use hearing officer shall
comply with the following procedures:
     A.    Upon scheduling a hearing date, the land use hearing officer shall notify the planning
          commission coordinator at least two weeks prior to the hearing to allow preparation of
          the record.
     B.    The planning commission coordinator shall prepare a copy of the record of the
          proceedings and decision being appealed for presentation to the land use hearing officer.
     C.    The hearing officer shall review the record, and may not accept or consider any evidence
          outside the record unless the evidence was offered to and was excluded by the planning
          commission, the director or director's designee and the hearing officer determines that it
          was improperly excluded.                                                                     Commented [CW144]: It is not the hearing officer’s job
                                                                                                       to hold another conditional use hearing, but rather to
     D.    The land use hearing officer shall review the planning commission's or the development      review the record to see if the planning commission acted
          services division's actions to determine whether the decision was arbitrary, capricious,     appropriately or erred.
          or illegal.
     E.   The filing of an appeal does not automatically stay the decision; however, the land use
          hearing officer has the authority to stay the decision while the appeal is pending.
     F.    After review of the record and written and oral argument on both sides, the hearing
          officer may affirm, reverse, alter, or remand to the planning commission, the director or
          director's designee for further review and consideration the action taken by the planning
          commission, the director or director's designee.



19.84.095 - Preliminary and final approval of conditional use applications.                            Commented [CW145]: This clarifies a second time the
                                                                                                       role of the planning commission in approving the land use
A.    Unless otherwise designated, a decision approving a conditional use application shall be a       and the role of planning staff finalizing that approval by
     preliminary approval of the application.                                                          assuring compliance.

B.    Except as specified in subsection C of this section, the planning and development services
     director is authorized to grant final approval of conditional use applications after all of the
     conditions and requirements of the preliminary approval which are necessary for the final
     approval have been met. Final approval of a conditional use application shall be in the form
     of a letter to the applicant which, together with the approved site plan if required, shall
     constitute the conditional use permit.




                                                                                           Page 341
C.     The planning commission may require as a condition of preliminary approval that a
     conditional use application be brought before the planning commission for consideration of
     final approval.



19.84.100 - Revocation of conditional use permits.                                                        Commented [CW146]: These next two sections deal with
                                                                                                          the potential to revoke an approval for non-compliance.
     A conditional use permit may be revoked by the planning commission upon a finding of failure
to comply with the terms and conditions of the original permit or for any violation of this title
occurring on the site for which the permit was approved. Prior to taking action concerning
revocation of a conditional use permit, a hearing shall be held by the planning commission. Notice
of the hearing and the grounds for consideration of revocation shall be mailed to the permittee at
least ten days prior to the hearing.



19.84.110 - Hearing officer.

     The planning commission may appoint, with the concurrence of the county mayormetro
township mayor, a hearing officer or officers to make recommendations to the planning
commission as to whether cause exists for the planning commission to consider revoking any
conditional use permit. Prior to making any recommendation to the planning commission, an
evidentiary hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer to determine whether the permittee
has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the original permit or has otherwise violated
any provision of the zoning ordinance occurring on the site for which the permit was approved.
The hearing officer shall notify the planning commission if any violations have been corrected by
the permittee prior to the issuance of the hearing officer's recommendations.



19.84.120 - Inspection.

      Following the issuance of a conditional use permit by the planning commission the building
official shall approve an application for a building permit pursuant to Chapter 19.94 of this title and
shall ensure that development is undertaken and completed in compliance with the permits.



Chapter 19.85 - HOME BUSINESS                                                                             Commented [CW147]: This chapter was enacted in 2004
                                                                                                          to replace “home occupations” with “home businesses.”
                                                                                                          Home occupations were conditional uses, which included
                                                                                                          notifications to neighbors. The County ultimately decided it
19.85.010 - Subject and definition.                                                                       was better to simply have a set of standards in the
                                                                                                          ordinance upon which to base approval of home businesses
                                                                                                          as permitted uses in residential zones.
A.    "Home business" shall mean any business activity, other than those listed below, which is
     conducted entirely within a dwelling or attached garage and is clearly incidental, secondary
     and in addition to the use of the structure for dwelling purposes. The purpose of the home
     business chapter is to allow the use of a portion of a home by one of its residents for business
     purposes, while establishing standards to ensure that the business use of the home will not


                                                                                              Page 342
     adversely impact the residential character of the neighborhood in which the home business
     is located.
B.   "Home business" shall not include the following business activities taking place at the home:         Commented [CW148]: A list of more intensive uses or
                                                                                                           uses that tend to cause problems in residential areas and
     1.    Motor vehicle, trailer or boat repair;                                                          are therefore not allowed as home businesses.
     2.    Any use involving the storage or sale of inflammable, explosive or hazardous materials;
     3.    Junkyards;
     4.    Mortuaries or crematoriums;
     5.    Sexually oriented businesses;
     6.    Lawn mower or small engine repair;
     7.    Auto body and/or fender work;
     8.    Towing operations;
     9.    Vehicle sales or rentals;
     10.    Welding, iron works, foundries;
     11.    Major appliance repair (washers, dryers, refrigerators, etc.).
C.    Uses that are listed as permitted or conditional uses in residential zones and are specifically      Commented [CW149]: This is to point out that there are
     defined under Chapter 19.04 are subject to a conditional or permitted use approval process,           specific uses allowed in some residential zones that have
     but are not subject to regulation under this chapter. Such uses include, but are not limited to,      their own separate approval process which must be
     short-term rentals, home daycare, home preschools, uses involving the raising, breeding,              considered outside the confines of this chapter.
     training, housing, keeping or care of animals, residential health care, residential facilities for
     elderly or disabled persons, bed and breakfast inn or homestay, boarding houses, etc.
D.   The following activities are exempted from regulation under this chapter:
     1.    Garage or yard sales; provided the sale is held for not more than three consecutive days,
           and no more than two times per year at the same location, and no consignment goods
           are offered for sale;
     2.    Temporary social gathering sales that do not exceed one day, such as candle parties,
           book parties, etc. not to exceed four occurrences per year.



19.85.020 - Standards.

     The following standards shall apply to home businesses:                                               Commented [CW150]: These standards were created in
                                                                                                           an effort to allow home businesses to the extent that they
     A.    The primary use of the dwelling must be residential.                                            have minimal impact on the neighborhood.
     B.     The person operating the business must reside in the dwelling on a full-time basis (at
           least nine months per year).
     C.     For lots which front on a right of way less than eighty feet wide, only the business
           operator and his/her immediate family members who reside in the home shall be
           employed or do any work, whether compensated or not, in conjunction with the business.
           For lots which front on a right of way of eighty feet or greater, one additional non-resident
           employee is allowed.




                                                                                               Page 343
     D.    Customers shall be allowed at the residence only if scheduled on an appointment basis,
          and are only allowed between the hours of seven a.m. and ten p.m. Group lessons or
          sessions shall not exceed six people at a time.
     E.    No exterior remodeling shall take place that would change the residential appearance
          of the home.
     F.   Interior structural alterations made to the home are allowed only if they are consistent
          with its primary use as a dwelling.
     G.    All business activities must take place within the dwelling and/or attached garage and
          shall not occupy more than twenty-five percent or more than five hundred square feet
          (whichever is less) of the floor area of the home.
     H.    The storage or display of supplies, inventory, equipment or materials in any portion of
          the yard or within a detached accessory building is prohibited.
     I.    Only those tools, equipment, or electric apparatus that are commonly used as
          accessories to or in conjunction with residential uses are allowed to be used as part of
          the home business.
     J.    Home businesses must be conducted in such a manner as not to emit or create
          excessive odors, smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light, glare, sounds, noises, vibrations or
          interference with radio and/or television reception.
     K.    In addition to the parking spaces required for the residents of the dwelling, parking for
          customers and for an employee, if allowed under subsection (D) above, must be provided
          in the driveway or garage.
     L.   Only a three square foot, non-illuminated nameplate sign is allowed. The nameplate sign
          must be attached to a wall or window of the dwelling.
     M.    No vehicle larger than a passenger car or van or one ton pickup truck is allowed to be
          brought to, parked on, or stored on the property in conjunction with a home business.
     N.   If the applicant for a home business is not the property owner, the applicant must obtain
          written authorization of the property owner or manager to apply.
     O.    The property address (house number) must be clearly posted on the home using letters
          at least four inches in height in a contrasting color to the building.
     P.   The condition of the dwelling and landscaped areas shall be well maintained.



19.85.030 - Regulations and enforcement.

A.    An application for home business must be submitted to the planning and development
     services division of Salt Lake County for review, and must be accompanied by the application
     fee listed in Section 3.52.080. Upon finding that the applicant understands and agrees to            Commented [CW151]: This should probably be amended
     comply with the standards set forth in Section 19.85.020, the application shall be approved.         because section 3.52.080 was replaced with a schedule of
                                                                                                          fees to be adopted each year with the budget (rather than
B.    All home businesses are required to obtain a Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township               having them set in ordinance).
     business license. The business license must be renewed each year that the home business              Commented [CW152]: This will need to change for
     is in operation.                                                                                     Copperton, because business licenses are no longer
C.   Violations of the standards set forth in Section 19.85.020 shall be subject to the civil penalties   required in Copperton.
     outlined in Section 19.94.070. In addition, a business license revocation hearing may be             Commented [CW153]: See above.


                                                                                              Page 344
      scheduled at the discretion of the division director of planning and development services for
      any business found to be in violation of the home business standards or of any other
      countymetro township ordinance.
D.     The business owner is responsible for complying with all applicable health, fire, building and
      safety codes.
E.    All home businesses shall be reviewed for compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
      approved under the application process mentioned above. For the purposes of this chapter,
      a change of business ownership and/or relocation to a new address is considered a new
      business, and requires separate approval.



Chapter 19.86 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION



19.86.010 - Purpose.                                                                                    Commented [CW154]: This chapter is intended to
                                                                                                        incentivize the preservation of historically significant sites.
    This chapter is enacted to preserve sites with special historical, architectural or aesthetic       Once a site is added to the list, planning commission
value which are unique and irreplaceable assets. To accomplish this purpose, planning                   approval is required for modifications. However, revenue
commission approval is required for all modifications to historical sites.                              generating land uses may be allowed to help provide
                                                                                                        funding for maintenance.




19.86.020 - Historic sites designated.

A.     Existing Sites. Each of the following structures and sites in the unincorporated area of the
      county is a historic site:
1.    Little Dell Station, Mountain Dell Canyon.
2.    Granite Paper Mill, 6900 South Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, Salt Lake City.
3.    Henry J. Wheeler Farm, 6343 South 900 East, Salt Lake City.
4.    David Bronson Brinton Home, 1981 East 4900 South, Holladay.
5.    Santa Anna Casto Home, 2731 Casto Lane, Salt Lake City.
6.    Gardner Home and Mill Site, 1475 Murphy's Lane, Salt Lake City.
7.    Edward Pugh Home, 1299 East 4500 South, Salt Lake City.
8.    Butler House, 1045 East 4500 South, Salt Lake City, Eff. 9-28-79.
9.    William J. Bowthorpe Home, 4910 Holladay Boulevard, Salt Lake City.
10.    William H. Walter Home, 2683 Hillsden Drive, Salt Lake City.
11.    George Boyes Home, 4766 Holladay Boulevard, Salt Lake City.
12.    Frank Dilworth Brinton Home, 4880 Highland Circle, Salt Lake City.
13.    Mountain View Train Station, 6211 Emigration Canyon Road, Salt Lake City.
14.    Butler School Teachers Dormitory, 2680 East Fort Union Boulevard, Salt Lake City.



                                                                                            Page 345
15.     Fabian/Tyler Home, 1130 East Vine Street, Salt Lake City.
16.     Jacob Heber Griffiths Farmstead, 525 East Fort Union Boulevard, Salt Lake City.
17.     Mill Creek Farm House, 1106 East 4500 South, Millcreek Township.
      The metro township council may designate historic sites and structures after receiving a
      recommendation from the Historic Preservation Commission/Planning Commission in
      accordance with section 2.88.030 and Chapter 19.90 of this codeB. Amendments. The
      county council may amend the above list of historic sites and structures, including designating
      additional historic sites subject to the amendment procedures in Chapter 19.90 of this code.



19.86.030 - Conditional use permit required.

A.     A conditional use permit is required for any modifications to a historic site or structure,
      including modifications to the landscaping, fencing or appearance of any lot, or demolition,
      construction, alteration, relocation, improvement or conversion of a historic site.
B.     Applications for a conditional use permit on a historic site shall be made in the manner and
      subject to the procedures and requirements set forth in Chapters 19.78 and 19.84 of this title.
      To the extent that the requirements of this chapter and Chapters 19.78 and 19.84 are
      inconsistent, the requirements of this chapter shall prevail.



19.86.040 - Noncomplying conditional uses.

     The planning commission shall not approve a conditional use for a historic site which would
be contrary to the purposes of this chapter by adversely affecting the architectural significance,
the historical appearance, or the educational and historical value of the site unless all the following
conditions have been met:
      A.   The application meets the requirements for a conditional use permit set forth in Chapters
           19.78 and 19.84;
      B.    The application meets all the requirements of the base zone in which the property is
           located;
      C.    The application has been pending before the planning commission for a period of at
           least one year.                                                                                Commented [CW155]: This section is designed in such a
                                                                                                          way as to not absolutely prevent someone from changing
                                                                                                          the nature of the property, but there is a one year waiting
                                                                                                          period involved.

19.86.050 - Site modification.                                                                            Commented [CW156]: This allows the planning
                                                                                                          commission to work with a property owner to modify
    The planning commission may modify all yard, parking, landscaping, height and other                   certain requirements to keep the property in harmony with
requirements of the base zone, as necessary to fulfill the purpose of this chapter. In so doing, the      it’s historic character. For example, a gravel parking area
nature and character of adjacent properties shall be considered to ensure that the health, safety,        may be allowed in lieu of a paved one for a pioneer era
                                                                                                          building.
convenience and general welfare will not be impaired. The planning commission may establish
development criteria to control impacts associated with the heaviest permitted use in the base
zone, including, but not limited to, noise, glare, dust or odor.



                                                                                              Page 346
19.86.060 - Additional uses for historic sites.

A.    Residential, Forestry and Agricultural Zones. The planning commission may approve any of
     the following uses for a historic site in addition to the permitted and conditional uses allowed
     in the agricultural, forestry or residential zone in which the site is located:
     1.    Antique shop;
     2.    Art shop;
     3.    Boardinghouse;
     4.    Child nursery;
     5.    Dental office or clinic;
     6.    Dwelling, single, two, three, four or multiple-family;
     7.    Nursing home;
     8.    Office;
     9.    Private educational institution;
     10.    Reception centers;
     11.    Restaurant;
     12.    Other uses of similar intensity to the above.
B.     Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. The planning commission may approve any use
     listed in the commercial and manufacturing zones of the countymetro township zoning
     ordinance for a historic site located in a commercial or manufacturing zone.



19.86.070 - Interpretation of chapter.                                                                  Commented [CW157]: So much of this chapter is based
                                                                                                        on the judgement of the planning commission and council,
     This chapter does not guarantee the right of any person, firm or corporation to any provision      that this provision just clarifies that not every application
of this chapter.                                                                                        will necessarily be approved.




Chapter 19.87 - RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY                                    Commented [CW158]: After many years of allowing
                                                                                                        these facilities in residential areas based on court decisions
                                                                                                        applying the Fair Housing Act and Americans with
                                                                                                        Disabilities Act, it was decided to put a provision in the
19.87.010 - Purpose.                                                                                    ordinance to address the issue.


    The purpose of this chapter is to balance local zoning considerations with state and federal
mandates requiring a reasonable accommodation for disabled persons living together in a group
housing arrangement in a residential neighborhood.




                                                                                            Page 347
19.87.020 - Scope.

    The requirements of this chapter apply to any facility, residence, group home or other
congregate housing arrangement for persons with a disability notwithstanding any conflicting
provision in this title or any other section of this Code of Ordinances.



19.87.030 - Definitions.

     "Disability" is defined in 19.04.168, "family" in 19.04.230, and "residential facility for persons
with a disability" in 19.04.452 of this title.



19.87.040 - Licensing for residential facilities.

    The licensing requirements for "residential treatment programs" and "residential support
programs" are defined and administered pursuant to state law and the Utah Administrative Code.



19.87.050 - Uses.

A.     No Permit Required. Four or less unrelated individuals who share housekeeping
     responsibilities in a single dwelling do not require a zoning permit but function as a "family,"
     defined in Section 19.04.230 of this title as "one to four unrelated people living together in a
     single dwelling."
B.     The director of planning and zoning development services ("the director"), with the                 Commented [CW159]: This section is an attempt to
     assistance of the district attorney, shall consider requests for a permitted use/reasonable           connect our approval authority to the “reasonable
     accommodation for a "residential facility for persons with a disability" ("facility"). The director   accommodations” provision of the federal law, while not
     or the director's designee shall approve a proper application for a zoning permit for the facility    putting ourselves in the position of judging whether the
                                                                                                           residents do or do not have a “disability.”
     in any zone, including residential zones where only single family dwellings are a permitted
     use, provided:
     1.   The facility meets or will meet all program, physical facility, and licensure requirements
          of the state department of human services or department of health.
     2.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, buildings and uses shall meet all applicable
          metro township county development standards, licensing and zoning requirements.
     3.    The facility shall not house persons who are involuntarily residing therein or who are
          residing therein as a part of or in lieu of confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in a
          correctional facility.
     4.    The applicant provides sufficient evidence that the requested accommodation is
          necessary to allow disabled individuals reasonable, non-discriminatory, federally
          mandated housing opportunities in the relevant zone. Evidence may include information
          relating to the history, management, financial feasibility, and therapeutic benefits of the
          facility, and applicable law.




                                                                                              Page 348
C.    The director or the director's designee may not deny the application based upon reasonably
     anticipated detrimental effects to the community so long as reasonable conditions are
     proposed to mitigate such anticipated detrimental effects.
D.    Institutional Uses. Consistent with the International Building Code, residential facilities             Commented [CW160]: Based on court cases, we could
     designed to house more than sixteen individuals constitute "institutional facilities" likely to          not limit the number of people residing together in such a
     create a fundamental change in the character of a single family residential neighborhood.                facility unless tied to a building or other code requirement.
     The only residential zone where an application for a conditional use permit for an institution
     serving more than sixteen residents may be approved is in a zone that allows apartments as
     a conditional or permitted use.



19.87.060 - Termination.                                                                                      Commented [CW161]: This section was put in the
                                                                                                              ordinance to show concerned neighbors that we could make
    A use permitted by this chapter is nontransferable and shall be subject to revocation by the              sure the facility continued to comply in the long-term, but
appropriate land use or licensing authority if:                                                               the D.A. admitted that this section would be very difficult to
                                                                                                              enforce.
     A.   The facility is devoted to a use other than a residential facility for persons with a disability,
          or
     B.    The facility exceeds the maximum number of residents specified and approved in the
          original application, changes the disability classification under state rules, or remodels
          or expands without first receiving approval from the director.
     C.    The facility is not licensed by the state department of health or department of human
          services.
     D.    It is determined by an appropriate countymetro township authority that residents of the
          facility have engaged in a pattern of criminal acts of nuisance, theft, or violence in the
          adjoining neighborhood.



19.87.070 - Residential day treatment.

      To avoid excessive traffic, on street parking, and related impacts altering the residential
character of a neighborhood, no day treatment for non-residents shall be permitted in residential
facilities for the disabled in the R-1 or R-2 residential zones.



19.87.080 - Parking.                                                                                          Commented [CW162]: The D.A. was comfortable that we
                                                                                                              could require this without risking being overturned by the
     The minimum number of parking spaces shall be four spaces plus one space for each five                   courts.
residents, provided that if the number of residents who own or operate a motor vehicle exceeds
the number of parking spaces established above, additional parking shall be provided to ensure
that every resident who owns or operates a motor vehicle has a lawfully located off-street parking
space.




                                                                                                 Page 349
19.87.090 - Appeals.

     Pursuant to section 19.92.050 of this title for permitted uses, any person adversely affected
by a final decision of the zoning authority may appeal that decision to the board of adjustmentland
use hearing officer.



Chapter 19.88 - NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES*                                       Commented [CW163]: “Nonconforming use” and
                                                                                                      “noncomplying structure” are terms used in the state code,
                                                                                                      so we use the same terms here. They refer to uses or a
                                                                                                      structures that at one time were legal on a specific
19.88.010 - Continuation of use.                                                                      property, but due to subsequent ordinance changes, do not
                                                                                                      comply to current code.
     The occupancy of a noncomplying structure or of a building or structure by a nonconforming
use, existing at the time this title became effective, may be continued, provided that the use has
not been abandoned or the building left vacant as provided in Section 19.88.120.                      Commented [CW164]: 19.88.010, 19.88.080, and
                                                                                                      19.88.120 combined state that a use may be continued as
                                                                                                      long as it takes place on the property for at least two
                                                                                                      consecutive weeks every year.

19.88.020 - Occupation within one year.

    A vacant building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the building or structure
was designed or intended if so occupied within a period of one year after the use became
nonconforming.



19.88.030 - Maintenance permitted.

    A noncomplying structure may be maintained.



19.88.040 - Repairs and alterations permitted.

     Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a noncomplying structure or to a structure
housing a nonconforming use. Any remodel or structural alteration that requires the demolition of
an outside wall of a noncomplying structure shall only be allowed upon approval of the land use
hearing officer, unless the new construction complies with the zoning ordinance. The land use         Commented [CW165]: This clause is to prevent someone
hearing officer decision regarding applications for the removal and replacement of outside walls      from tearing down and replacing large sections of a non-
of a noncomplying structure shall be based upon the criteria outlined in Section 19.88.070(B).        complying structure and calling it a “remodel.”




19.88.050 - Addition of parking space.

    A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space in connection therewith as
required by this title may be altered or enlarged provided additional automobile parking space is
supplied to meet the requirements of this title for such alteration or enlargement.


                                                                                          Page 350
19.88.060 - Expansion of use permitted.

    A nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor area of the existing building
in which it is conducted at the time the use became nonconforming.



19.88.070 - Additions, enlargements, moving and reconstruction of a structure.

A.    A noncomplying structure or building occupied by a nonconforming use shall not be added
     to or enlarged in any manner or moved to another location on the lot or reconstructed at
     another location on the lot except as provided by subsection B of this section unless such
     additions and enlargements comply with the regulations and intent of this title.                  Commented [CW166]: If the addition to the building
                                                                                                       complies with setback and height regulations, then it is
B.    A building occupied by a nonconforming use or a noncomplying structure may be added to           allowed. If the addition itself will also be nonconforming as
     or enlarged or moved to a new location on the lot or reconstructed at a new location on the       to setback or height regulations, hearing officer approval is
     lot upon a permit authorized by the land use hearing officer, provided that the land use          required as set forth in “B”
     hearing officer shall find:
     1.    The addition to, enlargement of, moving of, or reconstruction of the structure at a new
          location on the lot is in harmony with one or more of the purposes of this title as stated
          in Section 19.02.020 of this title, and is in keeping with the intent of this title;
     2.    That the proposed change does not impose any unreasonable burden upon the lands
          located in the vicinity of the nonconforming use or structure.



19.88.080 - Nonconforming use of land.

     The nonconforming use of land, existing at the time this title became effective, may be
continued provided that no such nonconforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or
extended either on the same or adjoining property, and provided that if such nonconforming use
of land, or any portion thereof, is abandoned or changed for a period of one year or more, any
future use of such land shall be in conformity with the provision of this title.



19.88.090 - Change of use.                                                                             Commented [CW167]: The idea behind this section is to
                                                                                                       allow the use to change over the years to less and less
A.   A nonconforming use may be changed to any use allowed in the most restrictive zone where          intensive uses so a property gradually becomes more in
     such nonconforming use is allowed, provided the planning commission finds that such use           harmony with nearby properties.
     would not be more intensive than the most recent existing legal nonconforming use.
B.    Structures shall not be enlarged, removed, reconstructed or otherwise changed except for
     interior remodeling and exterior restoration or renewal that will make the appearance of the
     structure more nearly conform to the character of the area in which it is located.




                                                                                           Page 351
C.     The existing lot or parcel shall not be enlarged upon or modified except to create
     landscaping, fencing, curb, gutter and sidewalk, road widening or minimum off-street parking
     that will provide a safer and more compatible facility.
D.    Any change of a nonconforming use to another nonconforming use shall be a conditional
     use and subject to provisions of Chapters 19.78 and 19.84, except that the proposed
     nonconforming use need not conform to the countymetro township general plan.
E.    The planning commission may approve a change of use pursuant to this title even though
     the nonconforming use may have been abandoned.



19.88.110 - Restoration of damaged structure.                                                             Commented [CW168]: Recognizes people’s right to
                                                                                                          recover from events beyond their control.
     A noncomplying structure or a structure occupied by a nonconforming use which is damaged
or destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity or act of God or the public enemy
and not the result of the intentional or reckless disregard of the owners or occupants, may be
restored and the occupancy or use of such structure or part thereof, which existed at the time of
such damage or destruction may be continued or resumed, provided that such restoration is
started within a period of one year and is diligently prosecuted to completion.



19.88.120 - Abandonment or one-year vacancy.

    A structure or portion thereof occupied by a nonconforming use, which is, or hereafter
becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied by a nonconforming use for a continuous period of one
year, except for dwellings, shall not thereafter be occupied except by a use which conforms to the
use regulations of the zone in which it is located. If the use has not applied to the premises for a
consecutive period of sixty days during any twelve-month period, the use shall be deemed
abandoned.



19.88.140 - Application to have a use violation declared legal through special exception.                 Commented [CW169]: This provision allows the planning
                                                                                                          commission to make a determination as to whether to allow
A.   Whenever land or a structure is used in violation of this title, the owner may file an application   continuation of a long-standing use that is technically illegal,
     with the planning commission to have the use declared legal through special exception. The           but continuation of said use will not materially harm anyone
     planning commission may approve such an application only when the evidence establishes               and is not the subject of enforcement action.
     all of the following:
     1.   The use exists on the property at the time of the application and has been in continuous
          violation of the zoning ordinance for a period exceeding ten years;
     2.    No complaint has been made to the development services division concerning the
          violation for a period exceeding ten consecutive years during which the violation existed;
     3.   Continuation of the use will not have a detrimental effect on the health, safety or welfare
          of persons or property in the vicinity.
B.   The planning commission may consider as evidence:



                                                                                              Page 352
    1.   Documents that are part of the public record, such as tax appraisals, utility records, aerial
         photographs, building permits, etc.
    2.   Documentation from third parties, such as affidavits, photographs, etc.
    3.   Documentation from current or past property owners, such as tax records, rental/lease
         agreements, appraisal records, etc.
      In approving an application hereunder, the planning commission may set any conditions it
deems necessary for protection of adjacent properties or the public welfare including provisions
limiting the period of time the use may continue. This section shall in no way be interpreted to
permit the continuation of any violation which exists on the effective date of the ordinance codified
in this section. Any person shall have the right to appeal to the land use hearing officer a decision
rendered by the planning commission pursuant to this section. Appellants shall follow the appeal
procedures set forth in Section 19.92.050 of this title.



19.88.150 - Application to have a structure declared a noncomplying structure.                           Commented [CW170]: Similar to 19.88.140 above, this
                                                                                                         section allows approval of structures that have existed for
    Whenever a structure is in violation of the height or setback provisions of this title, the owner    over 10 years and are not causing a health or safety
may file an application with the director or director's designee to have the structure declared          problem. When this section was first presented to the
noncomplying. The director or director's designee shall approve the application when the                 planning commission many years ago, it was similar to
                                                                                                         19.88.140, and involved a public hearing and planning
evidence clearly establishes the following:                                                              commission approval. However, the planning commission
    A.    The structure has existed at its current location, with the same size, height and setbacks     felt that if a structure is there where everyone can see it for
         for at least ten years;                                                                         over 10 years and nobody has complained, what is the point
                                                                                                         of a public hearing? They therefore recommended the
    B.   The structure is found by the county building official or designee to pose no threat to the     ordinance involve approval on a staff level.
         health or safety of persons in or around the structure, and;
    C.    Salt Lake Countydirector, in behalf of the metro township, has not taken enforcement
         action for the violation for a period exceeding five consecutive years during which the
         violation existed.



Chapter 19.90 - AMENDMENTS AND REZONING



19.90.010 - Amendment procedure.                                                                         Commented [CW171]: This is in harmony with the
                                                                                                         process outlined in Utah code.
     The county metro township council may amend the number, shape, boundaries or area of
any zone or any regulation within any zone. Any such amendment shall not be made or become
effective unless the same shall have been proposed by or be first submitted for the
recommendation of the relevant planning commission.



19.90.020 - Hearing—Notice.




                                                                                             Page 353
     Before finally adopting any such amendment, the county metro township council shall
consider the application during a public meeting which has been properly noticed in compliance            Commented [CW172]: The noticing requirements for a
with the provisions of Title 52, Chapter 4, of the Open and Public Meetings Act.                          public meeting are different than those for a public hearing.




19.90.030 - Determination of council.                                                                     Commented [CW173]: There is no requirement for the
                                                                                                          metro council to hold a public hearing or take public input in
    The county metro township council, after review of the recommendation of the planning                 the local ordinance or in Utah code. The public
commission, may approve, deny, alter or remand for further review and consideration any                   hearing/input is required at the planning commission level.
application for zone change referred to the metro township council by the planning commission.



19.90.050 - Disapproval of rezone application.

     Disapproval of an application to amend the zoning map shall preclude the filing of another
application to amend the zoning map to reclassify the same parcel of property, or any portion
thereof to the same zone classification or if the application is for a commercial classification to the
same or any other commercial classification, within one year of the date of the final disapproval         Commented [CW174]: It fairly common for most
of the application unless the county metro township council finds that there has been a substantial       municipalities to have a provision like this to prevent repeat
change in the circumstances or sufficient new evidence since the disapproval of the application           applications for the same zone on the same property until
to merit consideration of a second application within the one-year time period.                           circumstances have changed.




19.90.060 - Conditions to zoning map amendment.                                                           Commented [CW175]: The ability to approve conditional
                                                                                                          zoning is unique to the zoning ordinance of the County, but
A.    In order to provide more specific land use designations and land development suitability; to        has been used many times to “customize” the zoning to be
     insure that proposed development is compatible with surrounding neighborhoods; and to                compatible with the surrounding community.
     provide notice to property owners of limitations and requirements for development of
     property, conditions may be attached to any zoning map amendment which limit or restrict
     the following:
     1.   Uses;
     2.   Dwelling unit density;
     3.   Building square footage;
     4.   Height of structures.
B.    A zoning map amendment attaching any of the conditions set forth in subsection A shall be
     designated ZC after the zoning classification on the zoning map and any such conditions
     shall be placed on record with the planning commission and recorded with the county
     recorder.
C.    In the event any zoning condition is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
     then the entire zoning map amendment shall be void. Any deletion in or change to zoning
     condition shall be considered an amendment to the zoning ordinance and shall be subject to
     the requirements of this chapter.




                                                                                              Page 354
19.90.070 - Application to amend the general plan.

     Subject to the restrictions in Sections 19.90.080 and 19.90.090, any property owner or
authorized agent thereof may file an application requesting an amendment to the county metro
township general plan. Such application shall include the reasons or basis upon which the
property owner believes the county general plan should be amended. Amendments to the
countymetro township general plan shall comply with the procedures set forth in Chapter 27a of
Title 17 of the state code.                                                                           Commented [CW176]: This must be changed to Chapter
                                                                                                      9a of Title 10 of the State Code for municipalities.



19.90.080 - Restriction on applications after adoption of general plan.

     No application may be filed by any property owner or authorized agent thereof to amend any
part of the metro township county general plan for a period of one year after adoption of such part
of the county general plan by the county metro township council.



19.90.090 - Disapproval of general plan application.

     Disapproval of an application to amend the county metro township general plan shall preclude
the filing of another application to amend the general plan text in the same or similar manner or
to amend the general plan map for any parcel of property or portion thereof to the same land use
designation within two years of the date of the final disapproval of the application unless the       Commented [CW177]: Similar to the one-year hold for
planning commission finds that there has been a substantial change in the circumstances or other      denied rezone requests above, but general plans have a 2
significant reasons since the disapproval of the application to merit consideration of a second       year hold.
application within the two-year time period. No appeal to the county metro township council may
be taken from a planning commission decision rendered pursuant to this section.



Chapter 19.91 - SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES



19.91.010 - Title for citation.

    The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the "Sexually
Oriented Businesses Zoning Ordinance."



19.91.020 - Purpose of provisions.                                                                    Commented [CW178]: Because these types of businesses
                                                                                                      were deemed constitutionally protected under the first
    It is the purpose and objective of this chapter that the county Copperton Metro Township          amendment, Salt Lake County (along with most other
establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of sexually oriented        municipal jurisdictions) adopted an ordinance to regulate
businesses or their location in areas deleterious to the unincorporated area of Salt Lake             “time and place” rather than prohibiting them outright.
Countymetro township; to regulate the signage of such businesses; to control the adverse effects
of such signage; and to prevent inappropriate exposure of such businesses to the community.


                                                                                          Page 355
This chapter is to be construed as a regulation of time, place and manner of the operation of these
businesses, consistent with the limitations provided by provisions of the United States and Utah
Constitutions.



19.91.030 - Definitions.

     As used in this chapter:
    "Public park" means a park, playground, swimming pool, golf course or athletic field which is
under the control, operation or management of the state, a state agency, the county, or a
municipality.
     "Religious institution" means a building which is used primarily for religious worship and
related religious activities.
     "School" means an institution of learning or instruction primarily catering to minors, whether
public or private, which is accredited as such a facility by the State of Utah. This definition shall
include kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high schools, middle high schools, senior high
schools, or any special institution of learning under the jurisdiction of the State Department of
Education, but shall not include home occupations represented as schools, trade schools, charm
schools, dancing schools, music schools or similar limited schools, nor public or private
universities or colleges.
    "Sexually oriented business" means adult businesses, nude entertainment businesses,
seminude dancing bars, outcall services, and nude and seminude dancing agencies as defined
in Chapter 5.136.Chapter 5.20.                                                                             Commented [CW179]: Chapter 5.20 replaced chapter
                                                                                                           5.136 of the business license code, and contains the bulk of
                                                                                                           the regulations regarding this type of business, including the
                                                                                                           various definitions.

19.91.040 - Business permitted—Restrictions.

A.    Sexually oriented businesses, other than outcall services and nude and seminude dancing
     agencies, shall be permitted only in areas zoned C-3 and M-1 pursuant to the provisions of            Commented [CW180]: These two types of businesses are
     Chapters 19.64 and 19.66 respectively, subject to the following additional restrictions:              basically just offices (see “B” below) that book and send
                                                                                                           dancers to other locations to perform.
     1.   Sexually oriented businesses shall be subject to conditional use requirements.
     2.   No sexually oriented business shall be located:
          (a)    Within one thousand feet from any school, public park, religious institution, or other
                sexually oriented business;
          (b)    Within three hundred feet from an agricultural or residential boundary;
     3.    The distance requirements for this section shall be measured in a straight line, without
          regard to intervening structures, from the nearest property line of the school, public park,
          religious institution, agricultural or residential zoning district, or other sexually oriented
          business and to the nearest property line of the sexually oriented business.
B.    Outcall services and nude and seminude dancing agencies shall be permitted only in the
     following zones:
     1.   R-M—as an office, business use only, and subject to conditional use approval, pursuant
          to the provisions of chapter 19.44;


                                                                                              Page 356
    2.   C-1, C-2, C-3, and M-1 as an office, business use only, pursuant to the provisions of
         chapters 19.56, 19.62, 19.64 and 19.66 respectively.



19.91.050 - Sign restrictions.                                                                           Commented [CW181]: These restrictions were obviously
                                                                                                         designed to keep signs associated with this type of business
     Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in Chapter 19.82 of this title, signs for sexually      from being overly graphic.
oriented businesses shall be limited as follows:
    A.   No more than one exterior sign shall be allowed;
    B.   No sign shall be allowed to exceed eighteen square feet;
    C.    No animation shall be permitted on or around any sign, or on the exterior walls or roof
         of such premises;
    D.    No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to, or inferring, the nature of
         the business shall be allowed on any sign. Said signs shall contain alphanumeric copy
         only;
    E.   Only flat signs shall be permitted;
    F.   Painted wall advertising shall not be allowed;
    G.    Other than the signs specifically allowed by this chapter, the sexually oriented business
         shall not construct or allow to be constructed any temporary sign, banner, light or other
         device designed to draw attention to the business location.



19.91.060 - Severability.

     If any provision or clause of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect other sections, provisions, clauses or applications
hereof which can be implemented without the invalid provision, clause or application hereof, and
to this end the provisions and clauses of this chapter are declared to be severable.



Chapter 19.92 - LAND USE HEARING OFFICER



19.92.010 - Creation.                                                                                    Commented [CW182]: Until 2013, variances and appeals
                                                                                                         were heard by the Board of Adjustment, which was a
    The position of land use hearing officer is created pursuant to the enabling authority granted       volunteer board of citizens much like a planning
by the CountyMunicipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, section 17-27a10-9a-                   commission. The County made this change when it became
701 of the Utah Code Annotated. The land use hearing officer shall replace in all respects the           apparent that complex issues such as appeals were difficult
                                                                                                         for a citizens board to deal with, whereas a hearing officer
previous duties of the board of adjustment. Only one hearing officer shall consider and decide           who had some legal background and training would not be
any matter properly presented for land use hearing officer review.                                       overwhelmed by legal issues.




                                                                                             Page 357
19.92.020 - Procedures.                                                                                  Commented [CW183]: This section was carried over
                                                                                                         from the Board of Adjustment ordinance, but simplified
A.   The land use hearing officer may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.           (because a hearing officer doesn’t choose a chairperson or
                                                                                                         have “voting” rules).
B.   All hearings before the land use hearing officer shall comply with the requirements of Chapter
     4, Title 52, Utah Code, Open and Public Meetings.
     1.   The land use hearing officer shall:
          a.   Keep minutes of his or her proceedings; and
          b.   Keep records of his or her examinations and other official actions.
     2.   The land use hearing officer shall file his or her records in the office of the development
          services division. All such records are public records.
C.    Decisions of the land use hearing officer become effective at the meeting in which the
     decision is made, unless a different time is designated at the time the decision is made.



19.92.030 - Powers and duties.

     The land use hearing officer shall:
     A.   Act as the appeal authority for zoning decisions applying this title as provided in Section
          19.92.050 and for conditional use decisions by a planning commission:
     B.   Hear and decide the special exceptions to the terms of the zoning ordinance set forth in
          Section 19.92.060.
     C.   Hear and decide variances from the terms of the zoning ordinance; and
     D.   Hear and decide applications for the expansion or modification of nonconforming uses.          Commented [CW184]: While the rules regarding items
                                                                                                         “A” through “C” are found in this chapter (.040, .050, and
                                                                                                         .060 below) the rules regarding expansion or modification
                                                                                                         of nonconforming uses are found in chapter 19.88.

19.92.040 - Variances.

A.    Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the requirements of the zoning
     ordinance as applied to a parcel of property that he/she owns, leases, or in which he/she
     holds some other beneficial interest may apply to the land use hearing officer for a variance
     from the terms of the zoning ordinance.
B.   1.    The land use hearing officer may grant a variance only if:                                    Commented [CW185]: The criteria outlined in “B”
                                                                                                         through “F” are taken directly from the Utah Code.
          a.   Literal enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause an unreasonable hardship
               for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general purpose of the zoning
               ordinance;
          b.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not generally apply
               to other properties in the same district;
          c.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property right
               possessed by other property in the same district;
          d.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will not be contrary to
               the public interest; and


                                                                                             Page 358
          e.   The spirit of the zoning ordinance is observed and substantial justice done.
     2.   a.    In determining whether or not enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause
               unreasonable hardship under subsection (B)(1), the land use hearing officer may
               not find an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged hardship:
               i.    Is located on or associated with the property for which the variance is sought;
                     and
               ii.   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from conditions that
                     are general to the neighborhood.
          b.   In determining whether or not enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause
               unreasonable hardship under subsection (B)(1), the land use hearing officer may
               not find an unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-imposed or economic.
     3.   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances attached to the property
          under subsection (B)(1), the land use hearing officer may find that special circumstances
          exist only if the special circumstances:
          a.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
          b.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in the same district.
C.    The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the conditions justifying a variance
     have been met.
D.   Variances run with the land.
E.   The land use hearing officer may not grant use variances.
F.    In granting a variance, the land use hearing officer may impose additional requirements on
     the applicant that will:
     1.   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
     2.   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or modified.



19.92.050 - Appeals.

A.   1.     The applicant or any other person or entity adversely affected by a zoning decision
          administering or interpreting a zoning ordinance may appeal that decision by alleging
          that an order, requirement, decision or determination made by an official in the
          administration or interpretation of the zoning ordinance is arbitrary, capricious or illegal.   Commented [CW186]: This establishes the legal standard
          Appeals of conditional use decisions rendered by a planning commission shall follow the         of review for appeals by the hearing officer. Without this in
          review procedure outlined in Section 19.84.080 of this code.                                    place, all appeals would be heard “de novo,” which means a
                                                                                                          whole new hearing before the hearing officer in which he
     2.    Any officer, department, board or bureau of a county metro township affected by the            may substitute his judgement for the planning
          grant or refusal of a building permit or by any other decisions of the administrative officer   commission’s. With this criteria in place, the hearing officer
          in the administration or interpretation of the zoning ordinance may appeal any decision         is bound to judge only whether the planning commission
          to the land use hearing officer.                                                                acted within their authority, not whether he agrees with
                                                                                                          their judgement.
B.    The person or entity making the appeal has the burden of marshalling the evidence and
                                                                                                          Commented [CW187]: The person filing an appeal has to
     proving that the decision is arbitrary, capricious (unsupported by the evidence or facts of          make the case for that appeal. The presumption is that
     record), or illegal.                                                                                 unless proven otherwise, the planning commission acted
                                                                                                          appropriately.



                                                                                              Page 359
C.    1.     Only zoning decisions applying the ordinance and conditional use decisions by the
           planning commission may be appealed to the land use hearing officer.
     2.    A person may not appeal, and the land use hearing officer may not consider, any zoning
           ordinance amendments.
D.    Appeals may not be used to waive or modify the terms or requirements of the zoning
     ordinance.
E.    An appeal to the land use hearing officer must be filed at the planning and development
     services division of Salt Lake County within sixty days after the order, requirement decision
     or determination administering or interpreting the zoning ordinance is made in writing. The
     appeal shall set forth with specificity the reasons or grounds for the appeal.
F.    Appeals of planning commission conditional use decisions shall follow the procedures set
     forth in Section 19.84.080(B).



19.92.060 - Special exceptions.                                                                         Commented [CW188]: There used to be more exceptions
                                                                                                        on this list, but it was trimmed down to just these 3 in 2013.
     The land use hearing officer may approve any of the following special exceptions to the            The D.A. felt that some of the “exceptions” were basically
zoning ordinance where he or she determines the exception is consistent with the purposes of            variances but with different criteria.
the zoning ordinance and will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons
residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity:
     A.    Where a zone boundary line divides a lot in single ownership at the time of the passage      Commented [CW189]: Sometimes we have properties
           of the ordinance codified in this title, the land use hearing officer may permit a use       with a zone boundary running through them, with part of
           authorized on either portion of such lot to extend not more than fifty feet into the other   the property one zone, and part the other zone. This allows
           portion of the lot.                                                                          some flexibility without having to go through the zone
                                                                                                        change process.
     B.     The land use hearing officer may permit the enlargement of or addition to a
           noncomplying structure or a building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use.
     C.     The land use hearing officer may permit the relocation on a lot of a noncomplying
           structure or a building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use; or the hearing
           officer may permit the reconstruction on a lot of a noncomplying structure or a building
           occupied by a nonconforming use.



Chapter 19.93 - PROCEDURES FOR ANALYZING TAKINGS CLAIMS                                                 Commented [CW190]: This entire chapter of code was
                                                                                                        written by attorneys, and only comes into play if someone
                                                                                                        claims that the zoning regulations are so restrictive on their
                                                                                                        property as to constitute a regulatory taking. It is based on
19.93.010 - Purpose.                                                                                    creating an internal review prior to a takings issue going to
                                                                                                        court; otherwise, a judge hearing a takings case will most
                                                                                                        likely refer the issue back to the parties to see if they can’t
     The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for:                                        come to agreement outside the courtroom. The hearing
     A.      Obtaining and analyzing information regarding a claim that the application or              officer mentioned in this section is not necessarily the same
           enforcement of Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township zoning ordinances and/or             hearing officer discussed in 19.92
           land use regulations to private property within the unincorporated areas of the
           countymetro township constitutes an unconstitutional taking of private property without
           just compensation; and



                                                                                            Page 360
     B.    Determining whether it might be appropriate to grant administrative relief to the claimant
          in the event it is determined that such application or enforcement constitutes an
          unconstitutional taking.



19.93.020 - Findings.

     The governing body makes the following findings:
     A.    To further the public interest in lawful and responsible land development, and promote
          the health, welfare, and safety of its residents, the county metro township has enacted
          zoning and other land development regulations applicable to properties within
          unincorporated areas of the countymetro township, including new and revised
          regulations applicable to properties in the county's canyons and foothills; and
     B.    In the event an owner of private property within the unincorporated area of the
          countymetro township claims that the application or enforcement of county metro
          township zoning ordinances or other land use regulation constitutes an unconstitutional
          taking of its private property, it is in the best interests of the county metro township to
          have established procedures for obtaining relevant information for analyzing such claim
          and determining whether it might be appropriate to grant certain relief to the claimant,
          rather than conducting such analysis in a more confrontational, expensive, and time-
          consuming litigation context.



19.93.030 - Taking relief procedures—Petition and submittal requirements.

A.    Takings Relief Petition. Any applicant, after a final decision on its application is rendered by
     the development services director, planning commission, land use hearing officer,
     mayormetro township mayor or metro townshipcounty council, may file a takings relief petition
     with the development services director seeking relief from the final decision on the grounds
     that it constitutes an unconstitutional taking of the applicant's private property.
B.    Affected Property Interest. The takings relief petition must provide information sufficient for
     the attorney to determine that the petitioner possesses a protectable interest in property
     under Article I, Section 22 of the Constitution of Utah or the Fifth Amendment to the United
     States Constitution. In the event the petition does not provide information sufficient for the
     attorney to determine that the petitioner possesses a protectable interest in property under
     Article I, Section 22 of the Constitution of Utah or the Fifth Amendment to the United States
     Constitution, the petition shall be returned to the petitioner.
C.    Time for Filing Petition. No later than thirty calendar days from the final decision by the
     development services director, planning commission, land use hearing officer, mayormetro
     township mayor, county metro township council or other county review authority on any site
     plan or other type of zoning application the applicant shall file a takings relief petition with the
     development services director.
D.   Information to Be Submitted with Takings Relief Petition.
     1.   The takings relief petition must be submitted on a form prepared by the development
          services director, and must be accompanied at a minimum by the following information:


                                                                                               Page 361
          a.   The name of the petitioner;
          b.    The name and business address of the current owner of the property; form of
               ownership (whether sole proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit corporation,
               partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other); and if owned by
               corporation, partnership, or joint venture, or limited liability company, the names and
               addresses of principal shareholders or partners or members;
          c.   The price paid and other terms of sale for the property, the date of purchase, and
               the name of the party from whom purchased. Include the relationship, if any,
               between the petitioner and the party from whom the property was acquired;
          d.   The nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as, but not limited
               to, fee simple ownership or leasehold interest;
          e.    The terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of a full or partial
               interest in the property by the current owner, applicant, or developer prior to the date
               of application;
          f.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, include financing, offering
               for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three years prior to the date of the petition;
          g.   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the three years
               prior to the date of the petition;
          h.     All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured by the
               property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest rate, remaining
               loan balance, and term of the loan and other significant provisions, including but not
               limited to, right of purchase to assume the loan;
          i.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and offers received (if any),
               during the period of ownership or interest in the property;
          j.   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the petitioner within the
               previous three years concerning feasibility of development or utilization of the
               property;
          k.   For income producing property, itemized income and expense statements from the
               property for the previous three years;
          l.   Evidence and documentation of improvements, investments, and expenditures for
               professional and other services related to property made during the past three years;
          m.    Information from a title policy or other source showing all recorded liens or
               encumbrances affecting the property; and
          n.   Information describing all use(s) of the property during the five years prior to the
               petition.
     2.    The development services director may request additional information reasonably
          necessary, in his or her opinion, to arrive at a conclusion concerning whether there has
          been a taking.
E.    Failure to Submit Information. In the event that any of the information required to be
     submitted by the petitioner is not reasonably available, the petitioner shall file with the petition
     a statement of the information that cannot be obtained and shall describe the reasons why
     such information is unavailable.




                                                                                                Page 362
19.93.040 - Taking relief procedures—Determination of taking.

A.   Preliminary Determination of Taking.
     1.    Prior to the appointment of a hearing officer, and based on a review of the petition and
          all relevant information submitted by the petitioner, the county metro township council,
          upon advice of the development services director and the metro township attorney, shall
          make a preliminary determination whether a taking may have occurred. This preliminary
          determination shall be made within thirty days of the filing of the petition and submission
          of all information required to make such determination. In the event the countymetro
          township council makes a preliminary determination that a taking may have occurred,
          the county council may appoint a hearing officer, elect to conduct either formal or informal
          administrative proceedings, and proceed with a full review of the petition.
     2.    If a preliminary determination is made that a taking may have occurred, then the
          development services director and attorney shall recommend whether the hearing shall
          be formal or informal under the rules of procedure adopted by the governing body for
          such hearings.
     3.    If upon the advice of the development services director and the attorney, the
          countymetro township council finds that a taking has not occurred, the petition shall be
          denied and no hearing officer shall be appointed.
B.    Appointment of Hearing Officer. The development services director shall, within thirty days
     following a preliminary determination by the governing body that a taking may have occurred,
     appoint a hearing officer to review information by the petitioner, to hold a public hearing to
     determine whether a taking has occurred, and to make a recommendation to the governing
     body concerning the petition.
C.    Qualifications of the Hearing Officer. Every appointed hearing officer shall be licensed to
     practice law in the state of Utah. Prior to appointment, the hearing officer shall submit a
     statement of no potential or actual conflict of interest in connection with the petitioner or
     petition.
D.   Notice of Public Hearing. Within ten days following appointment of the hearing officer, written
     notice of a public hearing shall be published and posted in accordance with Utah Code 10-
     9a-202Section 19.84.040D of this title. The hearing shall be held within thirty days of the final
     date of written notice, unless a reasonable extension of time is agreed to by both the
     development services director and the petitioner.
E.    Conduct of the Hearing. The hearing shall be conducted according to the requirements of
     the rules of procedure adopted by the governing body for such hearings.
F.    Determining the Takings Issue. The hearing officer shall consider, among other items, the
     following information or evidence:
     1.    Any estimates from contractors, appraisers, architects, real estate analysts, qualified
          developers, or other competent and qualified real estate professionals concerning the
          feasibility, or lack of feasibility, of construction or development on the property as of the
          date of the petition, and in the reasonably near future;
     2.    Any evidence or testimony of the market value of the property both under the uses
          allowed by the existing regulations and any proposed use; and



                                                                                              Page 363
     3.    Any evidence or testimony concerning the value or benefit to the petitioner from the
          availability of opportunities to cluster development on other remaining contiguous
          property owned by the petitioner eligible for such clustering as provided elsewhere in this
          title.
G.    Burden of Proof. The petitioner shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
     evidence that the final decision that is the subject of the takings relief petition constitutes an
     unconstitutional taking.
H.    Findings of the Hearing Officer. The hearing officer shall, on the basis of the evidence and
     testimony presented, make the following specific findings as part of his/her report and
     recommendations to the governing body:
     1.   Whether the petitioner has complied with the requirements for presenting the information
          to be submitted with a takings relief petition;
     2.   Whether the petitioner has a protectable interest in the property that is the subject of the
          petition;
     3.   The market value of the property considering the existing zoning regulation;
     4.   The market value of the property under the proposed use;
     5.   Whether there are other economically viable uses that may be made of the property;
     6.   The market value of, or benefit accruing from opportunities to cluster development on
          other remaining contiguous property owned by the petitioner eligible for such transfer as
          provided for in this title;
     7.   Whether it was feasible to undertake construction on, or development of, the property
          as of the date of the application, or in the reasonably near future thereafter;
     8.   Whether the final decision that is the subject of the takings relief petition constitutes an
          unconstitutional taking of private property without just compensation.
I.   Report and Recommendations of the Hearing Officer.
     1.   If the hearing officer finds that the final decision which is the subject of the takings relief
          petition constitutes an unconstitutional taking of private property without just
          compensation, he or she shall remand the matter to the governing body with
          recommendations concerning what relief might be appropriate. In making such
          recommendations, the hearing officer shall consider, among other factors:
          a.    Approval of development on some portion of the property; or
          b.     A rezoning of the property to a more appropriate classification, approval of an
                alternative development plan, modification or waiver of normally-applicable
                development standards, or other appropriate land-use regulatory action;
          c.    An opportunity to cluster development;
          d.     For property subject to the foothills and canyons overlay zone, transfer of up to ten
                percent of the maximum allowable density that would otherwise be attributable to
                areas with greater than thirty percent slope on the subject property to other
                developable portions of the property;
          e.    A waiver of permit fees;
          fe.   Acquisition of all or a portion of the property at market value.



                                                                                               Page 364
     2.   Recommendations for clustering within the boundaries of the subject property owned by
          the petitioner shall require a written finding by the hearing officer that such clustering and
          the resulting increase in development density will be compatible with existing
          developments and land use patterns on properties surrounding the subject property.
          a.    For purposes of such "compatibility" finding, the hearing officer shall compare the
               petitioner's proposed development incorporating the increased transfer density with
               existing development on surrounding properties, and take into consideration the
               following factors:
               i.     Architectural character;
               ii.    Building size, height, bulk, mass, and scale;
               iii.    Building orientation;
               iv.     Privacy considerations in terms of privacy for prospective residents within the
                      petitioner's development and in terms of privacy protection for adjoining land
                      uses;
               v.     Building materials;
               vi.     Building color; and
               vii.    When applicable, operations of the petitioner's development project, including
                      but not limited to hours of operation; activities that may generate adverse
                      impacts on adjacent land uses such as noise or glare; location of
                      loading/delivery zones; and light intensity and hours of full illumination.
          d.   The report and recommendation shall be submitted to the county council and mailed
               to the petitioner within thirty days following the conclusion of the public hearing.
J.   County Metro Township Council Review and Consideration.
     1.    The metro townshipcounty council shall review the report and recommendations of the
          hearing officer and approve or deny the takings relief petition within sixty days following
          receipt of the hearing officer's report. Provided, however, that the countymetro township
          council may extend this period upon a finding that due to the size and complexity of the
          development or proposal and similar factors that additional review time is necessary.
     2.    The metro townshipcounty council may hold a public hearing and provide notice as set
          forth in Section 19.84.040D of this title. Only new testimony and evidence shall be
          presented at any such public hearing.
     3.   The metro townshipcounty council may adopt any legally available incentive or measure
          reasonably necessary to offset the taking, and may condition such incentives upon
          approval of specific development or site plans.
     4.   The decision of the county metro township council shall not become final until it issues
          a decision approving or denying the petition and specifying any relief it may deem
          appropriate.
K.    Time Limits/Transferal of Relief or Incentives. Any relief or incentives adopted by the
     countymetro township council pursuant to this chapter may be transferred and utilized by
     successive owners of the property or parties in interest, but in no case shall the relief
     incentives be valid after the expiration date of a specific development approval.




                                                                                              Page 365
Chapter 19.94 - ENFORCEMENT                                                                                 Commented [CW191]: This chapter outlines the
                                                                                                            penalties and enforcement mechanisms for violations of the
                                                                                                            zoning ordinance.

19.94.010 - Enforcement authority.

     The director of development services or his authorized agent is designated as the officer
charged with the enforcement of this title. The director of animal services is designated as the
enforcement official for Section 19.04.305 of the Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances which
shall be enforced pursuant to Section 8.10.010 of this code.



19.94.020 - Powers and duties.                                                                              Commented [CW192]: Authorizes inspections to verify
                                                                                                            violations and enforcement action as necessary to abate
A.    The director of development services is authorized to inspect or cause to be inspected all            violations.
     buildings and structures in the course of construction, modification or repair and to inspect
     land uses to determine compliance with the provisions of this title; provided, however that no
     such inspection shall be required as a condition precedent to commencement or continuation
     of any construction, modification or repair of building or structure.
B.    The director shall enforce all of the provisions of this title, employing all legal means available
     to do so. In the enforcement of this title, the director or any employee of the division
     authorized to represent the director shall have the right to enter any building for the purpose
     of determining the use thereof or to enter the premises for the purpose of determining
     compliance with the provisions of this title, provided that such right of entry shall be exercised
     only at reasonable hours and that in no case shall entry be made to any occupied building in
     the absence of the owner or tenant thereof without the written order of a court of competent
     jurisdiction.



19.94.030 - Unlawful use prohibited.                                                                        Commented [CW193]: This section is the “catch-all” that
                                                                                                            states it is against the law to violate any section of the
A.    No land, building or structure shall be used for any purpose or use not allowed in the zone           zoning ordinance.
     in which such land, building or structure is located.
B.    Violation of any of the provisions contained in this title is prohibited. Any person who violates
     that provisions of this title shall be subject to the criminal and civil penalties set forth in this
     chapter.



19.94.040 - Violation—Penalties and remedies.                                                               Commented [CW194]: This section allows both criminal
                                                                                                            prosecution and action through a civil process to enforce
A.    Violation of any of the provisions of this title is punishable as a Class C misdemeanor upon          the ordinance. My understanding is that ordinances are
     conviction. In addition, the provisions of this title may also be enforced by injunctions,             being drafted for the Metros to consider that would allow
     mandamus, abatement, civil penalties, or any other remedies provided by law.                           the use of hearing officers rather than civil court judges for
                                                                                                            civil penalties and abatement orders.
B.    Any one, all, or any combination of the penalties and remedies set forth in subsection A of
     this section may be used to enforce the provisions of this title.



                                                                                               Page 366
C.    Each day that any violation continues after notification by the director of development
     services or his agent that such violation exists shall be considered a separate offense for
     purposes of penalties and remedies set forth in this title.
D.    Accumulation of penalties for continuing violations, but not the obligation for payment of
     penalties already accrued, shall stop upon correction of the violation.



19.94.050 - Violation—Persons liable.                                                                        Commented [CW195]: Historically, the property owner is
                                                                                                             held responsible for violations, but in cases where the
    Any person, corporation or other entity, whether as owner, occupant, agent or employee, who              evidence points to another responsible party, enforcement
causes, permits or otherwise participates in any violation of the provisions of this title may be held       action can be taken against that person or party.
responsible for the violation, suffer the penalties, and be subject to the remedies provided by law.



19.94.060 - Violation—Notice and order.                                                                      Commented [CW196]: In order for the civil penalties
                                                                                                             provision to be enforceable, the ordinance must clearly
A.    Upon inspection and discovery that any provision of this title is being violated, the director         specify the manner in which notice is provided, including
     shall provide a written notice of violation and order to the property owner and to any other            the establishment of any required warning periods.
     party who may be responsible for the violation.
B.   The written notice and order shall: (1) indicate the nature of the violation; (2) order the action
     necessary to correct the violation; (3) give information regarding the established warning
     period for the violation; and (4) state the action the director intends to take if the violation is
     not corrected within the warning period.
C.    The written notice shall be delivered personally or mailed to the property owner, as shown
     on the records of the county recorder, and to any other person who may be responsible for
     the violation. Receipt of notice shall mean three days after the date written notice is delivered
     or mailed as provided herein.
D.     The written notice shall serve to start any warning periods provided in this chapter,
     commencing upon receipt of notice. If the violation remains uncured within five days after the
     expiration of the warning period, a second notice of violation and order shall be delivered in
     the same manner as the first notice. The second notice shall serve to start the civil penalties.
E.    In cases where the director determines that a delay of enforcement would pose a danger to
     the public health, safety or welfare, or would otherwise compromise the effective enforcement
     of this title, the director may seek immediate enforcement without prior written notice by
     instituting any of the remedies, other than civil penalties, authorized by Section 19.94.040 of
     this chapter.



19.94.070 - Civil penalties.                                                                                 Commented [CW197]: The amounts of these penalties
                                                                                                             have not changed in 20 years, and at least one Metro
A.    Civil Penalties. Violations of the provisions of this title shall result in civil penalties pursuant   (Kearns) is proposing raising them so violations don’t sit for
     to the following schedule:                                                                              so long before the accrued penalty is enough to pay for site
                                                                                                             cleanup.




                                                                                                Page 367
               CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF ZONING REGULATIONS

                     WARNING PERIOD: 28 DAYS FOR ALL VIOLATIONS

                                                                                 Fine Per Day
            Type of Zone                   Classification of Violation
                                                                            (after warning period)

          Residential Zones             Conditional use without a permit
                                                                                     $25
                R-1's                           Other violations
                R-2's
               R-4-8.5
                FR's                            Nonpermitted use
                                                                                     $50
                 F-1                     Violation of permit or approval
                RMH

            Mixed Zones                 Conditional use without a permit
                                                                                     $50
                R-M                             Other violations
               MD's
               FM's                             Nonpermitted use
                                                                                    $100
               S-1-G                     Violation of permit or approval

                                        Conditional use without a permit
 Commercial/Manufacturing Zones                                                     $100
                                                Other violations
              C's
              M's
                                                Nonpermitted use
             O-R-D                                                                  $200
                                         Violation of permit or approval

                                        Conditional use without a permit
                                                                                     $25
          Agricultural Zones                    Other violations
                  A's
                 FA's                           Nonpermitted use
                                                                                     $50
                                         Violation of permit or approval

           Overlay Zones
               AOZ                           Violation of provisions                $100
               HPZ




B.   Daily Violations. Each day a violation is continued or maintained after receipt of notice shall
     give rise to a separate civil penalty for each day of violation.                                  Commented [CW198]: This section establishes a hearing
                                                                                                       process where a person may appeal if he/she feels there is
C.   Violation Appeal Procedures.                                                                      no violation.


                                                                                           Page 368
     1.   The mayormetro township mayor shall appoint such hearing officers as he/she deems
          appropriate to consider matters relating to the violation of this title.
     2.    Any person having received notice of such violation, or the owner of any affected
          property, may appear before a hearing officer and present and contest such alleged
          violation of this title.
     3.   The burden to prove any defense specified in subsection (C)(4) of this section shall be
          upon the person raising such defense.
     4.   If the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred and/or a violation occurred but one
          or more of the defenses set forth in this section is applicable, the hearing officer may
          dismiss the notice of violation. Such defenses are:
          a.    At the time of the receipt of the notice of violation, compliance would have violated
               the criminal laws of the state;
          b.    Compliance with the subject ordinances would have presented an imminent and
               irreparable injury to persons or property.
     5.   If the hearing officer finds that a violation of this title occurred and no applicable defense
          exists, the hearing officer may, in the interest of justice and on behalf of the countymetro
          township, enter into an agreement for the timely or periodic payment of the applicable
          penalty by the violator.
     6.   No action by a hearing officer shall relieve the violator from complying with any of the
          provisions of this title.
D.   Abatement for Correction and Payment.                                                                 Commented [CW199]: Because correction of the
                                                                                                           violation is the goal (rather than on punishing people) a
     1.   Civil penalties shall be partially abated after the violation is cured and in the discretion     mechanism was put in place for the officer to reduce the
          of a hearing officer considering the following guidelines and factors:                           accrued penalties if the owner brings the property into
          a.    Prompt Cure. Reductions are generally appropriate for promptly curing the violation        compliance.
               pursuant to the following schedule, but the hearing officer may grant greater or
               lesser abatements depending on the facts of the case:
               i.     Cured within fourteen days after second notice—seventy-five percent reduction,
               ii.    Cured within twenty-eight days after second notice—fifty percent reduction, or
               iii.    Cured within fifty-six days after second notice—twenty-five percent reduction;
          b.    If strict compliance with the notice and order would have caused an imminent and
               irreparable injury to persons or property;
          c.   If the violation and inability to cure were both caused by a force majeure event such
               as war, act of nature, strike or civil disturbance;
          d.    Such other mitigating circumstances as may be approved by the attorney or
               designee;
          e.   If a change in the actual ownership of the property was recorded in the recorder's
               officer after the first or second notice was issued and the new owner is not related
               by blood, marriage or common ownership to the prior owner.
     2.    If the hearing officer finds that the noticed violation occurred and no applicable defense
          applies, the hearing officer may, in the interest of justice and on behalf of the countymetro
          township, enter into an agreement for the delayed or periodic payment of the applicable
          penalty.


                                                                                              Page 369
E.   Collection of Civil Penalties.                                                                        Commented [CW200]: The collection of civil penalties is
                                                                                                           currently a matter taken to civil court, but an ordinance is in
     1.    If the penalty imposed pursuant to this chapter remains unsatisfied after forty days or         the works to create a quicker collection and abatement
          when the penalty amounts to five thousand dollars from the receipt of notice, or ten days        process.
          from such date as may have been agreed to by the hearing officer, the countymetro
          township may use such lawful means as are available to collect such penalty, including
          costs and attorney's fees.
     2.   Commencement of any action to remove penalties shall not relieve the responsibility of
          any penalty to cure the violation or make payment of subsequently accrued civil penalties
          nor shall it require the county director or his authorized agent to reissue any of the notices
          required by this chapter.




                                                                                              Page 370
Page 371
Page 372
Page 373
Page 374
Page 375
Page 376
Page 377
