                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.pwpds.slco.org



         Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                       Tuesday, July 9, 2019 6:00 P.M.
                                    **AMENDED**

Location
BINGHAM CANYON LIONS CLUB
95 EAST HILLCREST STREET
COPPERTON, UTAH
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.



                                     PUBLIC HEARINGS

30939 – Ordinance Amendments – Enactment of an administrative code enforcement process to
be codified in Title 12 of the Copperton Metro Township Municipal Code.

                                    BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of Minutes from the May 14, and June 11, 2019 meetings.
    2) General Plan discussion
    3) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances
    4) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                          ADJOURN




July 9, 2019                                Page 1 of 1       AGENDA – COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
           TITLE 12 – CODE ENFORCEMENT AND COMMUNITY
                            PRESERVATION
                                 CHAPTER 12.1 – GENERAL

12.1.010       SHORT TITLE.

This Title shall be known as the “Code Enforcement and Community Preservation Program.” This
Chapter shall also be known as Chapter 12.1, of the [insert Metro Township name] Municipal
Code. It may be cited and pleaded under either designation.

12.1.020       AUTHORITY.

The Metro Township promulgates this Ordinance pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-702– 703.7;
10-3-716; 10-8-60; 10-11-1, et seq.; 76-10-801, et seq.; and any other applicable law or successor
statute(s).

12.1.030       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The [insert Metro Township name] Metro Township finds that the enforcement of its Municipal
Code and applicable state codes throughout the municipality is an important public service. Code
enforcement and abatement are vital to the protection of the public's health, safety, and quality of
life. The Council recognizes that enforcement starts with the drafting of precise regulations that
can be effectively applied in administrative code enforcement hearings and judicial proceedings.
The Council further finds that a comprehensive code enforcement system that uses a combination
of judicial and administrative remedies is critical to gain compliance with these regulations in a
manner that is fair and equitable to the Metro Township and its citizens. Failure to comply with an
administrative code enforcement action may require the Metro Township Attorney to file a judicial
action to gain compliance.

12.1.040       SCOPE.

The provisions of this Title may be applied to all violations of the [insert Metro Township name]
Code. It has been designed as an additional remedy for the Metro Township to use in achieving
compliance of its ordinances.

12.1.050       EXISTING ORDINANCES AND LAWS CONTINUED.

The provisions of this Title do not invalidate any other title or ordinance but shall be read in
conjunction with those titles and ordinances as an additional remedy available for the enforcement
of those ordinances together with any and all other applicable laws. If there is a conflict between
this Title and another provision of the Metro Township Code, this Title shall control.

12.1.060       CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT.

The Metro Township has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal case for the
violation of any of its ordinances. The Metro Township may choose to file both, or one, or the


                                                 1
other. The enactment of the administrative remedies set forth in this Title shall in no way interfere
with the Metro Township’s right to prosecute ordinance violations as criminal offenses in a court
of law. The Metro Township may use any of the remedies available under the law in both civil and
criminal prosecution. If the Metro Township chooses to file both civil and criminal charges for the
same day of violation, no civil penalties may be assessed, but all other remedies will be available.

12.1.070       EFFECT OF HEADINGS.

Title, chapter, part and section headings contained herein shall not be deemed to govern, limit,
modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning, or intent of the provisions of any title, chapter,
part, or section hereof.

12.1.080       VALIDITY OF TITLE – SEVERABILITY.

If any chapter, part, section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision of this Title
is for any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction, such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Title. The
Council hereby declares that it would have adopted this Title and chapter, part, section, subsection,
sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more
sections, subsections, clauses, phrases, portions, or provisions be declared invalid or
unconstitutional. This Section shall apply to all amendments heretofore or hereafter made to this
Title.

12.1.090       NO MANDATORY DUTY – CIVIL LIABILITY.

It is the intent of the Council that in establishing performance standards or establishing an
obligation to act by a Metro Township officer, employee, or designee, these standards shall not
be construed as creating a mandatory duty for purposes of tort liability if the officer, employee, or
designee fails to perform his or her directed duty or duties.

12.1.100       GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF ORDINANCES.

For purposes of this Title:

(1)   Any gender includes the other gender(s).

(2)   “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.

(3)   The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.

(4)   Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense, and vice versa.

(5)   Words and phrases used in this Title, and not specifically defined, shall be construed
      according to the context and approved usage of the language.




                                                   2
12.1.110       DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY.

The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Title, shall be constructed as defined in
this section, unless a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in this Title and
specifically stated to apply:

(1)   “Abate” or “Abatement” means any action the Metro Township may take on public or private
      property and any adjacent property as may be necessary to remove or alleviate a violation,
      including, but not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding, and securing or
      replacement of property.

(2)   “Administrative Code Enforcement Order” means an order issued by an Administrative Law
      Judge. The order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil penalties and
      administrative costs, or take any other action as authorized or required by this Title and
      applicable state codes.

(3)   “Administrative Law Judge” or “hearing officer” means the position established by the
      [insert Metro Township name] § Code 1.16 “Administrative Hearing.”

(4)   “Animal Control Administrator” means the supervisor of the Animal Control Division,
      established in [insert Metro Township name] § Code 8.1.

(5)   “Chief Building Inspector” means the official authorized and responsible for planning,
      directing, and managing the building inspection activities within the Metro Township.

(6)   “Council" means the Council of [insert Metro Township name].

(7)   “Code Enforcement Lien” means a lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties,
      administrative fees, and costs.

(8)   “Code Enforcement Performance Bond” means a bond posted by a responsible person to
      ensure compliance with the Metro Township Code, applicable state titles, a judicial action,
      or an administrative code enforcement order.

(9)   “County” means Salt Lake County, Utah.

(10) “Department” means the Metro Township’s Planning and Development Services
     Department, or its designee.

(11) “Director” means the director of the Metro Township’s Planning and Development Services
     Department or his/her authorized agent(s) or any other person/entity and their authorized
     agent(s) that the Metro Township has authorized to provide code enforcement services.

(12) “Enforcement Official” means any person authorized to enforce violations of the Metro
     Township Code or applicable state codes.

(13) “Financial Institution” means any person that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of trust on
     a property.


                                                3
(14) “Fire Department” means the applicable entity or official(s) that is authorized and
     responsible for providing fire and emergency services to the Metro Township.

(15) “Good Cause” means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due
     to unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a required act
     causes an imminent and irreparable injury; and acts of nature adverse to performing required
     acts.

(16) “Imminent Life Safety Hazard” means any condition that creates a present, extreme, and
     immediate danger to life, property, health, or public safety.

(17) “Legal Interest” means any interest that is represented by a document, such as a deed of trust,
     quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, mechanic's lien, or other
     similar instrument that is recorded with the County Recorder.

(18) “Metro Township” or “Municipality” means the area within the territorial municipal limits
     of [insert Metro Township Name], and such territory outside of this Metro Township over
     which the [insert Metro Township Name] has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any
     constitutional or incorporation provisions or any law.

(19) “Minor violation” means nuisance violations, as defined in state law and by Utah State
     Courts, to include:

   a.    Land uses that do not conform to existing zoning of the property;

   b.    Unauthorized collections of motor vehicles that are unlicensed, unregistered, and/or
         inoperable;

   c.    Trash, litter, illegal dumping, and weeds;

   d.    Nuisance noise and lighting;

   e.    Illegal advertising; and

   f.    The unauthorized use of public streets and sidewalks that stem from news racks,
         merchandise displays, mobile food vending, and other such illegal uses.

(20) “Notice of Compliance” means a document issued by the Metro Township, representing that
     a property complies with the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

(21) “Notice of Satisfaction” means a document or form approved by the Administrative Law
     Judge or his or her designee, which indicates that all outstanding civil penalties and costs
     have been either paid in full, or that the Metro Township has negotiated an agreed amount,
     or that a subsequent administrative or judicial decision has resolved the outstanding debt. In
     addition to the satisfaction of the financial debt, the property must also be in compliance with
     the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

(22) “Notice of Violation” means a written notice prepared by an enforcement official that
     informs a responsible person of code violations and orders them to take certain steps to
     correct the violations.

                                                 4
(23) “Oath” includes affirmations and oaths.

(24) “Person” means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
     association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee,
     agent, sergeant, officer, or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is recognized by
     law as the subject of rights or duties.

(25) “Program” means the Code Enforcement and Community Enhancement Program authorized
     under this Title.

(26) “Property Owner” means the record owner of real property based on the county assessor's
     records.

(27) “Public Nuisance” means any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist that
     constitutes a threat to the public's health, safety, and welfare, or that significantly obstructs,
     injures, or interferes with the reasonable or free use of property in a neighborhood or
     community or by any considerable number of persons. A public nuisance also has the same
     meaning as set forth in the Utah Code Annotated.

(28) “Responsible Person” means a person who has charge, care, or control of any premises,
     dwelling, or dwelling unit as the legal or equitable owner, agent of the owner, lessee, or as
     an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of the estate of the owner. In all cases, the
     person with legal title to any premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit shall be considered a
     responsible person, with or without accompanying actual possession thereof.

(29) “Treasurer” means the [insert Metro Township name] Treasurer as designated pursuant to
     Utah Code Ann. § 10-3c-203.

(30) “Written” includes handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, or facsimile.

(31) “[Insert Metro Township name],” means [insert Metro Township name], a municipal
     corporation under state law. May also be referred to “the Metro Township” and/or “the
     Municipality” pursuant to Utah Code § 68-3-12.5(6).

12.1.111       ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING, AND ABETTING.

Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this Title, it shall include causing, permitting,
aiding, or abetting such act or omission.

12.1.200       PART 2 – SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.

12.1.210       SERVICE OF PROCESS.

(1)   Whenever service is required to be given under this Title, service shall be made on the
      property owner and any non-owner occupant of the property, if applicable, in accordance
      with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-2 or any applicable successor statute(s), unless another form
      of service is required by law.

(2)   If service complies with the requirements of this Section, it shall be deemed a valid service


                                                  5
      even if a party claims not to have received the service and it shall not affect the validity of
      any proceedings taken under this Title.

(3)   The failure to serve all responsible person(s) shall not affect the validity of any proceedings.

12.1.220       CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS.

Whenever a document is recorded with the County recorder as authorized or required by this Title
or applicable state codes, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the information
contained in the recorded documents.

12.1.300       PART 3 – GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES.

12.1.310       GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.

Whenever the Director or enforcement official finds that a violation of the Metro Township Code
or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the appropriate administrative
enforcement procedure may be used as outlined in this Title. The Director or any designated
enforcement official has the authority and power necessary to gain compliance with the provisions
of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes. These powers include the power to issue
notices of violation and administrative citations, inspect public and private property, abate public
and private property, and use whatever judicial and administrative remedies are available under
the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.1.320       ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES.

The Administrative Law Judge is authorized to develop policies and procedures relating to the
hearing procedures, scope of hearings, subpoena powers, and other matters relating to the Program.

12.1.330       AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.

The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to enter upon any property or
premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes
are being obeyed and to make any examinations and surveys as may be necessary in the
performance of the enforcement duties. This may include the taking of photographs, samples, or
other physical evidence. All inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys shall be done in a
reasonable manner based upon cause. If the responsible person refuses to allow the enforcement
official to enter the property, the enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant.

12.1.340       POWER TO ARREST.

The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to issue a misdemeanor citation
or administrative citation whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the person has
committed a violation of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes in the enforcement
official's presence.

12.1.350       FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED.



                                                  6
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or refuse to give his or her
name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with a duly authorized Metro Township official
or agent, including but not limited to the Director any authorized enforcement officials, when in
the performance of his or her official duties under the provisions of this Title. A violation of this
Section is a class B misdemeanor.

12.1.360            FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA.

It is unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative code
enforcement hearing. Failure to obey a subpoena constitutes contempt and is a class B
misdemeanor.

             CHAPTER 12.2 – ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
                                PROCEDURES
12.2.010            AUTHORITY.

Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any provisions of the Metro
Township Code or applicable state codes that constitutes a violation may be abated by the Metro
Township pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Chapter.

12.2.020            NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

(1)        Whenever the Director or any designated enforcement official determines that a violation of
           the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the
           Director or enforcement official will issue a notice of violation to a responsible person. The
           notice of violation shall include the following information and shall comply with Utah Code
           § 10-11-2 or the applicable successor statute(s):

      a.      Name of the property owner of record according to the records of the County Recorder;

      b.      Street address of violation;

      c.      Nature and results of the examination and investigation conducted;

      d.      Date and approximate time the violation was observed;

      e.      All code sections violated and description of condition of the property that violates the
              applicable codes;

      f.      A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently correct
              outstanding violations, which may include corrections, repairs, demolition, removal,
              eradication, destruction, or other appropriate action;

      g.      A specific date for the responsible party to correct the violations listed in the notice of
              violation, which date shall be at least ten days from the date of service unless the Director
              determines that the violation requires emergency abatement under Section 12.2.200;



                                                      7
      h.      Explanation of the consequences should the responsible person fail to comply with the
              terms and deadlines as prescribed in the notice of violation, which may include, but is
              not limited to, criminal prosecution; civil penalties; revocation of permits; recordation of
              the notice of violation; withholding of future municipal permits; abatement of the
              violation by the Metro Township and re-payment to the Metro Township for the costs of
              the abatement; other costs incurred by the Metro Township; administrative fees; and any
              other legal remedies;

      i.      That civil penalties will begin to accrue immediately on expiration of the date to correct
              violations;

      j.      The amount of the civil penalty on each violation and that the penalty will accrue daily
              until the property is brought into compliance;

      k.      That only one notice of violation is required for any 12-month period, and that civil
              penalties begin immediately upon any subsequent violations of the notice. The
              responsible person may request a hearing on the renewed violations by following the
              same procedure as provided for the original notice;

      l.      Procedures to appeal the notice and request a hearing as provided in Section 12.2.530,
              and consequences for failure to request one; and

      m.      Procedures to request an inspection after the violation has been abated pursuant to
              Section 12.2.040.

(2)        The notice of violation shall be served by one of the methods of service listed in Section
           12.1.210 of this Title.

(3)        More than one notice of violation may be issued against the same responsible person, if it
           encompasses different dates, or different violations.

12.2.030            FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO COMPLIANCE.

(1)        If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within the compliance period
           specified in the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the Metro Township for
           each and every subsequent day of violation.

(2)        Failure to comply with the notice of violation is a Class C misdemeanor.

12.2.040            INSPECTIONS.

It shall be the duty of the responsible person served with a notice of violation to request in writing
an inspection when his or her property has been brought into compliance. It is prima facie evidence
that the violation remains on the property if no inspection is requested. Civil penalties accumulate
daily until the property has been inspected and a notice of compliance is issued. Re-inspection fees
shall be assessed if more than one inspection is necessary.




                                                      8
12.2.200            PART 2 – EMERGENCY ABATEMENT

12.2.210            AUTHORITY.

(1)        Whenever the Director determines that an imminent life safety hazard exists that requires
           immediate correction or elimination, the Director may exercise the following powers without
           prior notice to the responsible person:

      a.      Order the immediate vacation of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy or entry until all
              repairs are completed, provided that an order prohibiting entry shall specify how entry is
              to be made to mitigate damage, complete repairs, retrieve personal property, or for any
              other purpose, if any, during the abatement process.

      b.      Post the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;

      c.      Board, fence, or secure the building or site;

      d.      Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent further collapse, and remove
              any hazard to the general public;

      e.      Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any imminent life safety
              hazard; or

      f.      Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.

(2)        The Director and his or her agents have the authority, based on cause, to enter the property
           without a search warrant or court order to accomplish the above listed acts to abate the safety
           hazard.

(3)        The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the abatement of the life
           safety hazard. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.220            PROCEDURES.

(1)        The Director shall pursue only the minimum level of correction or abatement as necessary to
           eliminate the immediacy of the hazard. Costs incurred by the Metro Township during the
           emergency abatement process shall be assessed and recovered against the responsible person
           through the procedures outlined in Chapter 12.3 of this Title regarding “Administrative and
           Judicial Remedies” section.

(2)        The Director may also pursue any other valid and legal administrative or judicial remedy to
           abate any remaining violations.

12.2.230            NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.

After an emergency abatement, the Metro Township shall notify the owner or responsible person
of the abatement action taken in writing. This notice shall be served within ten days of completion


                                                      9
of the abatement and will describe in reasonable detail the abatement actions taken.

12.2.300       PART 3 – DEMOLITIONS

12.2.310       AUTHORITY.

Whenever the Director determines that a property or building requires demolition, he or she may
demolish or remove the offending structure, or exercise any or all of the powers listed in Section
12.2.210 once appropriate notice has been given to a responsible person pursuant to the Uniform
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code or Uniform Fire Codes as required under state law,
provided that the notice shall include a written description of the Director’s findings explaining
the need for the demolition and citations to the applicable ordinances or laws authorizing the
demolition. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the demolition.
Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.320       PROCEDURES.

Once the Director has determined that the Metro Township Chief Building Inspector or the Fire
Department has complied with all of the notice requirements of the applicable laws, the property
will be demolished. Other applicable remedies may also be pursued.


12.2.400       PART 4 – ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS

12.2.410       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need for an alternative method of enforcement for minor violations
of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes. The Council further finds that an
appropriate method of enforcement is an administrative citation program.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other legal
remedy established by law that may be pursued to address violations of the Metro Township Code
or applicable state codes.

12.2.420       AUTHORITY.

(1)   Any person violating any minor provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable state
      codes may be issued an administrative citation by an enforcement official as provided in this
      Part.

(2)   A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative citation issued by the
      enforcement official, and shall be payable directly to the Metro Township Treasurer's Office,
      or other offices designated to receive payment on behalf of the Metro Township.

(3)   Penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be collected in accordance
      with the procedures specified in the remedies section of this Title.

12-2-403.      PROCEDURES.


                                                10
(1)   Upon discovering any violation of the Metro Township Code, or applicable state codes, an
      enforcement official may issue an administrative citation to a responsible person in the
      manner prescribed in this Part or as prescribed in Section 12.1.210. The administrative
      citation shall be issued on a form approved by the Director.

(2)   If the responsible person is a business, the enforcement official shall attempt to locate the
      business owner and issue an administrative citation to the business owner. If the enforcement
      official can only locate the manager of the business, the administrative citation may be given
      to the manager of the business. A copy of the administrative citation may also be mailed to
      the business owner or any other responsible person in the manner prescribed in Section
      12.1.210 of this Title.

(3)   Once the responsible person has been located, the enforcement official shall attempt to obtain
      the signature of that person on the administrative citation. If the responsible person refuses
      or fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the
      validity of the citation and subsequent proceedings.

(4)   If the enforcement official is unable to locate the responsible person for the violation, then
      the administrative citation shall be mailed to the responsible person in the manner prescribed
      in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

(5)   If no one can be located at the property, then the administrative citation may be posted in a
      conspicuous place on or near the property and a copy subsequently mailed to the responsible
      person in the manner prescribed by Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

(6)   The administrative citation shall also contain the signature of the enforcement official.

(7)   The failure of any person with an interest in the property to receive notice shall not affect the
      validity of any proceedings taken under this Part.

12.2.440       CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.

Administrative citations shall include the information required in Section 12.2.020 and shall:

(1)   State the amount of penalty imposed for the minor violations; and

(2)   Explain how the penalty shall be paid, the time period by which the penalty shall be paid,
      and the consequences of failure to pay the penalty.

12.2.450       CIVIL PENALTIES ASSESSED.

(1)   The Metro Township Council shall establish policies to assist in the assessment of civil
      penalties for administrative citations.

(2)   Civil penalties shall be assessed immediately for each violation listed on the administrative
      citation. The penalties shall be those established in the Consolidated Fee Schedule.

(3)   Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the violations, nor shall it bar
      further enforcement action by the Metro Township.


                                                  11
12.2.500            PART 5 – HEARING PROCEDURES

12.2.510            DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need to establish uniform procedures for administrative code
enforcement hearings conducted pursuant to the Metro Township Code. It is the purpose and intent
of the Council to afford due process of law to any person who is directly affected by an
administrative action. Due process of law includes notice, an opportunity to participate in the
administrative hearing, and an explanation of the reasons justifying the administrative action.
These procedures are also intended to establish a forum to efficiently, expeditiously, and fairly
resolve issues raised in any administrative code enforcement action.

12.2.520            AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF HEARINGS.

The Administrative Law Judge will preside over hearings of Metro Township Code violations.
The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures to regulate the hearing
process for any violation of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes that are handled
pursuant to the administrative abatement procedures, the emergency abatement procedures, the
demolition procedures, or the administrative citation procedures. If there is a conflict between the
appeal procedures in this Title and the appeal procedures in another code incorporated by the
Township, this Title shall control.

12.2.530            REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING.

(1)        A person served with one of the following documents or notices has the right to request an
           administrative code enforcement hearing, if the request is filed within 20 calendar days from
           the date of service of one of the following notices:

      a.      Notice of violation;

      b.      Notice of itemized bill for costs;

      c.      Administrative citation;

      d.      Notice of emergency abatement;

(2)        The request for hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the Administrative Law Judge.
           The request shall contain the case number, the address of the violation, and the signature of
           the responsible party.

(3)        As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for hearing, the
           Administrative Law Judge shall schedule a date, time, and place for the hearing.

(4)        Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and
           a waiver of the right to challenge the action.

12.2.540            HEARINGS AND ORDERS.



                                                      12
(1)        If the responsible person fails to request a hearing before the expiration of the 20-day
           deadline, the Director may request a default hearing, which the Administrative Law Judge
           shall schedule. The responsible person shall be notified of the date, time, and place of the
           hearing by one of the methods listed in Section 12.2.210.

(2)        A default hearing shall be scheduled for all cases that have outstanding or unpaid civil
           penalties, fines, fees and/or costs due to the Metro Township before collection, if a hearing
           on that case has not already been held.

(3)        At any hearing, the responsible person shall have the opportunity to present evidence to show
           that good cause exists, as defined in the Title, to do one or more of the following in addition
           to any other rights afforded under other provisions of the Metro Township Code or applicable
           law:

      a.      Waive or reduce the fines which have accumulated;

      b.      Postpone an abatement action by the Metro Township; or

      c.      Excuse the responsible person's failure to request a hearing within the 20-day period.

(4)        If the responsible person fails to establish good cause to take one or more of the actions set
           forth in paragraph (3), the Administrative Law Judge shall review the notice of violation and
           any other relevant information included in the case file. The Administrative Law Judge shall
           not accept any other evidence.

      a.      If the evidence shows that the violations existed, the Administrative Law Judge shall
              enter an order requiring abatement of the violations, and the payment of all fines and
              fees. Fines shall run until the Director or other duly authorized representative of the
              Metro Township issues a Notice of Compliance stating when the violations were actually
              abated.

12.2.550            NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
                    HEARING.

(1)        Written notice of the day, time, and place of the hearing shall be served to a responsible
           person as soon as practicable prior to the date of the hearing.

(2)        The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be in accordance with rules and policies
           promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

(3)        The notice of hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section
           12.1.210 of this Title.

12.2.560            DISQUALIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

(1)        A responsible person may file a written motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge
           for bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason for which a judge may be
           disqualified in a court of law. The motion to disqualify shall be accompanied by an affidavit
           or unsworn declaration as described in Title 78B of the Utah Code or applicable successor


                                                      13
           statute(s) signed by the responsible person, which shall:

      a.      State that the motion is filed in good faith;

      b.      Allege facts sufficient to show, bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason
              that would disqualify a judge in a court of law in Utah; and

      c.      State when and how the Responsible Party came to know of the reason for
              disqualification.

(2)        The responsible person must file the motion within 21 days of the assignment of the action
           to an Administrative Law Judge or the date on which the responsible person knew or should
           have known of the grounds on which the motion is based, whichever is later.

(3)        A responsible person can only file one motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge,
           unless a second or subsequent motion is based on grounds that the responsible person did not
           know of and could not have known of at the time of the earlier motion.

(4)        The Administrative Law Judge who is the subject of a motion to disqualify must, without
           taking any further action, provide the Director with a copy of the motion and refer the motion
           to the Metro Township Council.

(5)        Upon receipt of a motion to disqualify, the Metro Township Council will schedule and notice
           the matter for review at its next regular scheduled meeting. The Metro Township Council
           may, in its sole discretion, elect to hold a special meeting to hear the motion before its next
           regularly scheduled meeting. The Metro Township Council shall first review the motion to
           disqualify to determine if it satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
           Section. If the motion to disqualify does not satisfy the requirements of this Section, the
           Council will deny the motion and remand it to the Administrative Law Judge for further
           proceedings. If the motion to disqualify satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2)
           of this Section, the Metro Township Council shall determine whether the motion is legally
           sufficient to warrant disqualification. If the Metro Township Council determines that
           disqualification is warranted, it will assign the matter to another Administrative Law Judge.
           If the Metro Township Council determines that the motion to disqualify is not legally
           sufficient, it will remand the matter back to the Administrative Law Judge.

12.2.570            POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

(1)        The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to hold hearings, determine if violations of
           Metro Township ordinances exist, order compliance with Metro Township ordinances, and
           enforce compliance as provided in this Title on any matter subject to the provisions of the
           Title.

(2)        The Administrative Law Judge may continue a hearing based on good cause shown by one
           of the parties to the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge must enter on the record the
           good cause on which a continuance is granted.

(3)        The Administrative Law Judge, at the request of any party to the hearing, may sign subpoenas
           for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where the attendance of the witness for the


                                                      14
      admission of evidence is deemed necessary to decide the issues at the hearing. All costs
      related to the subpoena, including witness and mileage fees, shall be borne by the party
      requesting the subpoena. The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and
      procedures relating to the issuance of subpoenas in administrative code enforcement
      hearings, including the form of the subpoena and related costs.

(4)   The Administrative Law Judge has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an
      administrative code enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance; ordering
      compliance by issuing an administrative code enforcement order using any remedies
      available under the law; ensuring compliance of that order, which includes the right to
      authorize the Metro Township to enter and abate a violation; modifying an administrative
      code enforcement order; or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new
      hearing.

(5)   The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to require a responsible person to post a
      code enforcement performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative code
      enforcement order.

12.2.580       PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
               HEARING.

(1)   Administrative code enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature. Formal rules
      of evidence and discovery do not apply; however, an informal exchange of discovery may
      be required. The request must be in writing. Failure to request discovery shall not be a basis
      for a continuance. Complainant information is protected and shall not be released unless the
      complainant is a witness at the hearing. The procedure and format of the administrative
      hearing shall follow the procedures promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

(2)   The Metro Township bears the burden of proof at an administrative code enforcement
      hearing to establish the existence of a violation of the Metro Township Code or applicable
      state codes.

(3)   The standard of proof to be used by the Administrative Law Judge in deciding the issues at
      an administrative hearing is whether the preponderance of the evidence shows that the
      violations exist.

(4)   Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present evidence in
      support of his or her case. A written declaration signed under penalty of perjury may be
      accepted in lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony may be given by telephone or other
      electronic means.

(5)   All hearings are open to the public. They shall be recorded by audio tape. Hearings may be
      held at the location of the violation.

(6)   The responsible person has a right to be represented by an attorney. If an attorney will be
      representing the responsible person at the hearing, notice of the attorney's name, address, and
      telephone number must be given to the Metro Township at least one day prior to the hearing.
      If notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the Metro Township's request, and all
      costs of the continuance assessed to the responsible person.


                                                 15
(7)   No new hearing shall be granted, unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that
      extraordinary circumstances exist which justify a new hearing.

12.2.590.      FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
               HEARING.

Any party whose property or actions are the subject of any administrative code enforcement
hearing and who fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive the right to a hearing, and will
result in a default judgment for the Metro Township, provided that proper notice of the hearing
has been provided.

12.2.591       ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER.

(1)   Once all evidence and testimony are completed, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue an
      administrative code enforcement order that affirms, modifies, or rejects the notice or citation.
      The Administrative Law Judge may increase or decrease the total amount of civil penalties
      and costs that are due pursuant to the Metro Township's fee schedule and the procedures in
      this Title.

(2)   The parties may enter into a stipulated agreement, which must be signed by both parties. This
      agreement shall be entered as a stipulated administrative code enforcement order. Entry of
      this agreement shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and the right to appeal.

(3)   The Administrative Law Judge may order the Metro Township to enter the property and
      abate all violations, including but not limited to demolitions and the removal of vehicles,
      garbage, animals, and other property kept in violation of the Metro Township Code.

(4)   The Administrative Law Judge may revoke a kennel permit, an animal license, or the right
      to possess animals as provided in the Metro Township Code.

(5)   As part of the administrative code enforcement order, the Administrative Law Judge may
      condition the total or partial assessment of civil penalties on the responsible person's ability
      to complete compliance by specified deadlines.

(6)   The Administrative Law Judge may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be
      necessary or as requested by a party to the hearing to ensure compliance with the
      administrative code enforcement order.

(7)   The Administrative Law Judge may order the responsible person to post a performance bond
      to ensure compliance with the order.

(8)   The administrative code enforcement order shall become final on the date of the signing of
      the order.

(9)   The administrative code enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any one of the
      methods listed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.




                                                 16
12-2-595            FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.

(1)        Upon the failure of the responsible person to comply with the terms and deadlines set forth
           in the administrative code enforcement order, the Metro Township may abate the violation
           as provided in Chapter 3, Part 3 of this Title and use all appropriate legal means to recover
           the civil penalties and administrative costs to obtain compliance.

(2)        After the Administrative Law Judge issues an administrative code enforcement order, the
           Administrative Law Judge shall monitor the violations and determine compliance.

12.2.600            PART 6 – ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS

12.2.610            APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
                    DECISION.

(1)        Any person adversely affected by any decision made in the exercise of the provisions of this
           Chapter may file a petition for review of the decision or order by the district court within 30
           days after the decision is rendered.

(2)        No person may challenge in district court an administrative code enforcement hearing
           officer's decision until that person has exhausted his or her administrative remedies.

(3)        Within 120 days after submitting the petition, the party petitioning for appeal shall request a
           copy of the record of the proceedings, including transcripts of hearings when necessary. The
           Administrative Law Judge shall not submit copies of files or transcripts to the reviewing
           court until the party petitioning for appeal has paid all required costs. The petitioning party's
           failure to properly arrange for copies of the record, or to pay the full costs for the record,
           within 180 days after the petition for review was filed shall be grounds for dismissal of the
           petition.

      a.      If a transcript of a hearing cannot be prepared because the tape recording is incomplete
              or unintelligible, the district court may, in its discretion, remand the matter to the
              Administrative Law Judge for a supplemental proceeding to complete the record. The
              district court may limit the scope of the supplemental proceeding to issues that, in the
              court's opinion, need to be clarified.

(4)        The district court's review is limited to the record of the administrative decision that is being
           appealed. The court shall not accept nor consider any evidence that is not part of the record
           of that decision.

(5)        The courts shall:

      a.      Presume that the administrative code enforcement hearing officer's decision and orders
              are valid; and

      b.      Review the record to determine whether or not the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or
              illegal.



                                                       17
      CHAPTER 12.3 – ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES
12.3.100        PART 1 –RECORDATION OF NOTICES OF VIOLATION

12.3.110        DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods of enforcement for violations of the
Metro Township Code and applicable state codes that are found to exist on real property. The
Council further finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for these types of violations is the
issuance and recordation of notices of violation.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedy
established by law that may be pursued to address the violation of the Metro Township Code or
applicable state codes.

12.3.120        AUTHORITY.

Whenever the Director determines that a property or violation has not been brought into
compliance as required in this Title, the Director has the authority, in his or her discretion, to record
the notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder's
Office.

12.3.130        PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION.

(1)   Once the Director has issued a notice of violation to a responsible person, and the property
      remains in violation after the deadline established in the notice of violation, and no request
      for an administrative hearing has been filed, the Director shall record a notice of violation
      with the County Recorder's Office.

(2)   If an administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in the Metro Township's favor, the
      Director shall record the administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder's
      Office.

(3)   The recordation shall include the name of the property owner, the parcel number, the legal
      description of the parcel, and a copy of the notice of violation or order.

(4)   The recordation does not encumber the property, but merely places future interested parties
      on notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.

12.3.140        SERVICE OF NOTICE OF RECORDATION.

A notice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and the property owner
pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.




                                                   18
12.3.150       FAILURE TO REQUEST.

The failure of any person to file a request for an administrative code enforcement hearing when
served with a notice of violation shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing
and shall not affect the validity of the recorded notice of violation.

12.3.160       NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE – PROCEDURES.

(1)   When the violations have been corrected, the responsible person or property owner may
      request an inspection of the property from the Director.

(2)   Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the Director shall re-inspect the property as soon as
      practicable to determine whether the violations listed in the notice of violation or the order
      have been corrected, and whether all necessary permits have been issued and final
      inspections have been performed.

(3)   The Director shall serve a notice of satisfaction to the responsible person or property owner
      in the manner provided in Section 12.2.210 of this Title, if the Director determines that:

(4)   All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or order has been corrected;

(5)   All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;

(6)   All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid or satisfied; and

(7)   The party requesting the notice of satisfaction has paid all administrative fees and costs.

(8)   If the Director denies a request to issue a notice of satisfaction, upon request, the Director
      shall serve the responsible person with a written explanation setting forth the reasons for the
      denial. The written explanation shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in
      Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

12.3.170       WITHHOLDING OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS FOR NONCOMPLIANT
               PROPERTIES.

The Metro Township may, in its sole discretion, withhold any municipal permit that has been
requested for a property that is in violation of any provision of the Metro Township Code until the
Director issues a notice of satisfaction for the applicable violation(s) pursuant to this Title. The
Metro Township may not withhold permits that are necessary to obtain a notice of satisfaction or
that are necessary to correct serious health and safety violations.

12.3.180       CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

The Director or responsible person shall record the notice of satisfaction with the County
Recorder's Office. Recordation of the notice of satisfaction shall cancel the recorded notice of
violation.




                                                 19
12.3.200       PART 2 – ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES

12.3.210       AUTHORITY.

(1)   Any person violating any provision of the Metro Township Code, or applicable state codes,
      may be subject to the assessment of civil penalties for each violation.

(2)   Each and every day a violation of any provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable
      state codes exists is a separate violation subject to the assessment of civil penalties.

(3)   Civil penalties cannot be assessed when a criminal case has been filed for the same date and
      violation, because fines will be assessed with the criminal case.

(4)   Interest shall be assessed per Metro Township policy, or at the judgment rate provided in
      Utah Code Ann. § 15-1-4 in the absence of a Metro Township policy, on all outstanding civil
      penalties balances until the case has been paid in full.

(5)   Civil penalties for violations of any provision of the Metro Township Code or applicable
      state codes shall be assessed pursuant to the Metro Township’s applicable fee schedule.

12.3.220       PROCEDURES FOR ASSESSING CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1)   If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within ten days of service
      of the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the Metro Township for each and
      every subsequent day of violation.

(2)   Civil penalties are assessed and owing immediately for any violation of the Metro Township
      Code or applicable state codes for an administrative citation.

12.3.230       DETERMINATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1)   Civil penalties shall be assessed per violation per day pursuant to the applicable Metro
      Township fee schedule.

(2)   Civil penalties shall continue to accrue until the violation(s) has/have been brought into
      compliance with the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.240       MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1)   Upon completion of the notice of violation or administrative enforcement order, the
      responsible person may request a modification of the civil penalties on a finding of good
      cause.

(2)   Civil penalties may be waived or modified by the Administrative Law Judge, in his or her
      discretion, if there is a finding of good cause based on the responsible person's claim of
      nonconforming use or conditional use and:

(3)   The Metro Township’s need to verify the claim; or


                                                20
(4)        The responsible person's filing of an application for either use before expiration of the date
           to correct.

12.3.250            FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES.

The failure of any person to pay civil penalties assessed within the specified time may result in the
Director pursuing any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided in the law.

12.3.300            PART 3 – ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION

12.3.310            AUTHORITY TO ABATE.

The Director is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to abate the violation of the
Metro Township Code and applicable state codes pursuant to this Part. The Director is authorized
to assess all costs for the abatement to the responsible person and use any remedy available under
the law to collect the costs. If additional abatements are necessary within two years, treble costs
may be assessed against the responsible person(s) for the actual abatement.

12.3.320            PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT.

(1)        The Director may abate a violation pursuant to this Part after providing notice under Section
           12.2.020 and by following the process set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any
           applicable successor statute(s) if the Responsible Party or Parties:

      a.      Do not abate a violation within the time period prescribed in a notice issued pursuant to
              Sections 12.2.020 and 12.2.400, et seq.; and

      b.      The Responsible Party or Parties did not file a request for an administrative code
              enforcement hearing under Section 12.2.530.

(2)        The Director may, in his or her discretion, request a default hearing pursuant to Section
           12.2.504 but is not required to do so to abate the violation under this Part and may abate the
           violation without a default hearing pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or applicable
           successor statute(s).

(3)        The Director may use Metro Township personnel or by a private contractor acting under his
           or her direction or the direction of the Metro Township to abate the violation.

(4)        Metro Township personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private property in a
           reasonable manner to abate the ordinance violation as specified in the notice of violation or
           administrative code enforcement order.

(5)        If the responsible person abates the violation before the Metro Township performs the actual
           abatement pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order, the
           Director may still assess all costs incurred by the Metro Township against the responsible
           person.

(6)        When the abatement is completed, the Director shall prepare an itemized statement of the
           work performed that complies with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor


                                                     21
      statute(s).

(7)   The Director shall serve the itemized statement on the responsible person in accordance with
      Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor statute(s).

(8)   The Administrative Law Judge shall hear any appeals filed by a responsible person in
      response to an itemized statement issued under this Part and shall conduct such appeals and
      any related hearings in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable
      successor statute(s).

12.3.400        PART 4 – COSTS

12.3.410        DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

(1)   The Council finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by enforcement officials and
      other Metro Township personnel who spend considerable time inspecting and re-inspecting
      properties throughout the Metro Township in an effort to ensure compliance with the Metro
      Township Code or applicable state codes.

(2)   The Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an appropriate method to recover
      expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations, re-inspection fees, filing fees,
      attorney fees, hearing officer fees, title search, and any additional actual costs incurred by
      the Metro Township for each individual case. The assessment and collection of costs shall
      not preclude the imposition of any administrative or judicial civil penalties or fines for
      violations of the Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.420        AUTHORITY.

(1)   Whenever actual costs are incurred by the Metro Township on a property to obtain
      compliance with provisions of the Metro Township Code and applicable state codes, the
      Director may assess costs against the responsible person.

(2)   Once a notice of violation has been issued, the property will be inspected one time. Any
      additional inspections shall be subject to re-inspection fees pursuant to the applicable Metro
      Township fee schedule as adopted in the Metro Township’s annual budget.

12.3.430        NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT OF REINSPECTION FEES.

(1)   Notification of any applicable re-inspection fees adopted by the Metro Township shall be
      provided on the notice of violation served to the responsible person(s).

(2)   Re-inspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this Part shall not be included in any
      other costs assessed.

(3)   The failure of any responsible person to receive notice of the re-inspection fees shall not
      affect the validity of any other fees imposed under this Part.




                                                22
12.3.440       FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS.

The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in the invoice shall result
in a late fee pursuant to Metro Township policy.

12.3.500       PART 5 – ADMINISTRATIVE FEES

12.3.510       ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.

The Director or the Administrative Law Judge is authorized to assess administrative fees for costs
incurred in the administration of this program, such as investigation of violations, preparation for
hearings, hearings, and the collection process. The fee assessed shall be the amount set in the
applicable Metro Township fee schedule.


12.3.600       PART 6 –- INJUNCTIONS

12.3.610       CIVIL VIOLATIONS – INJUNCTIONS.

In addition to any other remedy provided under the Metro Township Code or state codes, including
criminal prosecution or administrative remedies, any provision of the Metro Township Code may
be enforced by injunction issued in the Third District Court upon a suit brought by the Metro
Township.


12.3.700       PART 7 – PERFORMANCE BONDS

12.3.710       PERFORMANCE BOND.

(1)   As part of any notice, order, or action, the Director or Administrative Law Judge has the
      authority to require responsible persons to post a performance bond to ensure compliance
      with the Metro Township Code, applicable state codes, or any judicial action.

(2)   If the responsible person fails to comply with the notice, order, or action, the bond will be
      forfeited to the Metro Township. The bond will not be used to offset the other outstanding
      costs and fees associated with the case.




                                                 23
 CHAPTER 12.4 - RECOVERY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES
                        AND COSTS
12.4.100       PART 1 – CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIENS

12.4.110       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that recordation of code enforcement tax liens will assist in the collection of
civil penalties, administrative costs, and administrative fees assessed by the administrative code
enforcement hearing program or judicial orders. The Council further finds that collection of civil
penalties, costs, and fees assessed for code enforcement violations is important in deterring future
violations and maintaining the integrity of the Metro Township's code enforcement system. The
procedures established in this Part shall be used to complement existing administrative or judicial
remedies that may be pursued to address violations of the Metro Township Code or applicable
state codes.

12.4.120       PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITHOUT A JUDGMENT.

(1)   Once the Metro Township has abated a property for weeds, garbage, refuse, or unsightly or
      deleterious objects or structures, the Director shall prepare three copies of the Itemized
      Statement of Costs incurred in the removal and destruction of the violations and deliver them
      to the Metro Township Mayor within 10 days after completion of the work of removing the
      violations.

(2)   The Director shall send, by registered mail to the property owner's last known address, a
      copy of the Itemized Statement of Costs informing him or her that a code enforcement tax
      lien is being recorded for the amount of actual costs of abatement. Payment shall be due
      within 20 calendar days from the date of mailing.

(3)   Upon receipt of the Itemized Statement of costs, the Metro Township Mayor shall record a
      Code Enforcement Tax Lien against the property with the County Treasurer's office.

(4)   The failure of any person with a financial interest in the property to actually receive the notice
      of the lien shall not affect the validity of the lien or any proceedings taken to collect the
      outstanding costs of abatement.

12.4.130       PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITH A JUDGMENT.

Once a judgment has been obtained from the appropriate court assessing costs against the
responsible person(s), the Director may record a code enforcement tax lien against any real
property owned by the responsible person(s).

12.4.140.      CANCELLATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIEN.

Once payment in full is received for the outstanding civil penalties and costs, or the amount is
deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent administrative or judicial order, the Director shall either
record a Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment, or provide the property owner or financial institution
with the Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment so that it can record this notice with the county


                                                  24
recorder's office. The notice of satisfaction of judgment shall include the same information as
provided for in the original Code Enforcement Tax Lien. Such notice of satisfaction of judgment
shall cancel the code enforcement tax lien.

12.4.200       PART 2 – WRIT OF EXECUTION

12.4.201       RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF EXECUTION.

After obtaining a judgment, the Director may collect the obligation by use of all appropriate legal
means. This may include the execution on personal property owned by the responsible person by
filing a writ with the applicable court.

12.4.300       PART 3 – WRIT OF GARNISHMENT

12.4.310       RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF GARNISHMENT.

After obtaining a judgment, the Director may collect the obligation by use of all appropriate legal
means. This may include the garnishment of paychecks, financial accounts, and other income or
financial assets by filing a writ with the applicable court.

12.4.400       PART 4 – ALLOCATION OF FUNDS COLLECTED UNDER
               ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROGRAM

12.4.410       ABATEMENT FUND.

There is, hereby established, a revolving fund to be known as the "Abatement Fund" to defray
costs of administrative and judicial abatements. The fund shall be reimbursed by collection from
the property or property owner as specified in this Title and by the courts. The Metro Township
Council shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification, credit, and
collection. This fund may be operated and used in conjunction with procedures ordered or
authorized under the abatement provision of this Title.

12.4.420.      REPAYMENT TO ABATEMENT FUND.

All monies recovered from the sale or transfer of property or by payment for the actual abatement
costs shall be paid to the Metro Township Treasurer, who shall credit the appropriate amount to
the Abatement Fund.

12.4.430       CODE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND COST FUND.

Administrative fees and administrative costs, except for actual abatement costs, collected pursuant
to this Part shall be deposited in a fund established by the Metro Township Council for the
enhancement of the Metro Township's code enforcement efforts and to reimburse the Metro
Township for investigative costs and costs associated with the hearing process. Fees and costs
deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner determined by the Metro
Township Council. The Metro Township Council shall establish accounting procedures in
consultation with the Metro Township Auditor to ensure proper account identification, credit, and
collection.

                                                25
12.4.440       ALLOCATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

Civil penalties collected pursuant to this Part shall be deposited in the General Fund of the Metro
Township. Civil penalties deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and allocated in a manner
determined by the Metro Township Manager and the Metro Township Council. The Metro
Township Council shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification,
credit, and collection.




                                                26
                                           Planning and Development Services
                                           2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                           Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                           www.pwpds.slco.org



                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                     COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                  Tuesday, May 14, 2019 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 2 hours 19 minutes                       *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 0                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                     County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Stone

                                                 ATTENDANCE
                               Public     Business                                                         Public      Business
        Commissioners                                Absent               Planning Staff / DA
                                Mtg         Mtg                                                             Mtg          Mtg
        Ranuta Alder                         x
        Vern Winkler                         x                             Curtis Woodward                                 x
         Ryan Taylor                         x                               Wendy Gurr                                    x
     Doug Green (Chair)                                x
    Mike Stone (Vice Chair)                  x


                                            BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 6:01 p.m.
   1) Election of Vice Chair 2019 (Pending)
      Election of Vice Chair
      Motion: Commissioner Winkler nominated Commissioner Stone for Vice Chair. Commissioner
      Stone accepted.
             Motion by: Commissioner Winkler
             2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

   2) Approval of Minutes from the April 9, 2019 meeting
      Motion: To approve minutes from the April 9, 2019 meeting as presented.
            Motion by: Commissioner Alder
            2nd by: Commissioner Stone
            Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
   3) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances

Commissioner Winkler said he has open space. Mr. Woodward said council wanted a work meeting with
the planning commission on RCOZ and had evolved out of the Historic Preservation. He asked the mayor
to invite council members and no one appeared and hasn’t heard back and spoke with the attorney. Changes
made to open space ordinance. Commissioner Winkler wants a motion version of open space for approval.
Mr. Woodward said since they haven’t come to the work meeting, we could put it on their agenda and may
elect to wait and attorney said once they’re through with the budget cycle, then will get in to tackling


Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – May 14, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                       Page 1 of 3
ordinances as a council.

19.72 – Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone (FCOZ)

19.72.010 – no change
19.72.020 – no change
19.72.030 – no change
19.72.040 – no change
19.72.050 – no change
19.72.060 – no change
19.72.070 – no change
19.72.080 – no change
19.72.090 – no change
19.72.100 – no change
19.72.110 – no change
19.72.120 – no change
19.72.130 – no change
19.72.140 – no change
19.72.150 – no change
19.72.160 – no change
19.72.170 – no change
19.72.180 – no change
19.72.190 – no change
19.72.200 – no change

19.74 – Floodplain Hazard Regulations –

Commissioner Stone said it looks like we are waiting for the edits to be made. Commissioner Winkler
recommends the code stay as federal requirements.

19.75 – Geological Hazards Ordinance

       Motion: To recommend 19.74 and 19.75 to the Copperton Metro Township Council to defer to the
       County code, rather than adopt Copperton Metro Township specific, with the understanding that
       county code includes state code and federal code.
              Motion by: Commissioner Winkler
              2nd by: Commissioner Stone
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

19.76 – Supplementary and Qualifying Regulations

19.76.010 – no change
19.76.020 – no change
19.76.030 – no change
19.76.035 – no change
19.76.040 – no change
19.76.050 – no change
19.76.060 – no change
19.76.065 – no change
19.76.070 – no change

Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – May 14, 2019 – Meeting Summary            Page 2 of 3
19.76.080 – no change
19.76.090 – no change
19.76.100 – no change
19.76.110 – no change
19.76.130 – no change
19.76.140 – no change
19.76.160 – no change
19.76.170 – no change
19.76.190 – no change
19.76.200 – no change
19.76.210 – no change
19.76.220 – no change
19.76.240 – no change
19.76.250 – no change
19.76.260 – no change
19.76.270 – eliminate
19.76.280 – no change
19.76.290 – no change
19.76.300 – no change
19.76.310 – no change

Mr. Woodward touched on 19.77 – Water Efficient Landscape Design and Development Standards. This
item was continued to the June meeting.

19.78 – Planned Unit Developments

19.78.010 – no change
19.78.020 – no change
19.78.030 – no change
19.78.040 – no change
19.78.050 – no change
19.78.060 – no change
19.78.070 – no change
19.78.080 – no change
19.78.090 – no change
19.78.100 – no change
19.78.110 – no change
19.78.120 – no change
19.78.130 – no change

   4) Other Business Items (as needed)

Commissioner Winkler asked how to go about getting a four lane road and traffic flow. Mr. Woodward
advised impact fees and an RFP for a consultant.

Commissioner Alder motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Taylor seconded that motion.

                                        MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 8:20 p.m.


Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – May 14, 2019 – Meeting Summary             Page 3 of 3
                                           Planning and Development Services
                                           2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                           Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                           www.pwpds.slco.org



                                        MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                      COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                   Tuesday, June 11, 2019 6:00 p.m.
          **There was not a quorum, this meeting was intended for discussion purposes only**
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 1 minute                          *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 1                                    found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                     County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner

                                               ATTENDANCE

                               Public     Business
        Commissioners                                Absent
                                Mtg         Mtg                                                             Public      Business
                                                                            Planning Staff / DA
         Ranuta Alder                        x                                                               Mtg          Mtg
         Vern Winkler                        x                               Curtis Woodward                                 x
          Ryan Taylor                                  x                       Wendy Gurr                                    x
      Doug Green (Chair)                               x                      Mikala Jordan                                  x
     Mike Stone (Vice Chair)                           x
                                                                             BUSINESS MEETING

                                         Meeting began at – 6:08 p.m.
   1) Approval of Minutes from the May 14, 2019 meeting
      Motion:
            Motion by:
            2nd by:
            Vote:
   2) General Plan Discussion
      Ms. Jordan introduced herself and went over the general plan update and accompanying documents.
      Ms. Jordan asked when the best place and time to hold the community wide events. Commission
      advised the June 26th parade and August 24th town days are community events in Copperton.

   3) Confirm July 9, 2019 meeting attendance
      Discussed the ordinance public hearing item that will be on the July 9th agenda.

   4) Other Business Items (as needed)
      Commissioner Winkler asked about a difficult section in the code and wasn’t happy about the
      landscaping. Finish ordinances in July, advised steering committee will be meeting monthly and
      encouraging committee.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 7:09 p.m.

Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – June 11, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                     Page 1 of 1
Chapter 19.79 - UTILITY AND FACILITY SYSTEM PLACEMENT REGULATIONS                                        Commented [CW85]: This chapter was created after the
                                                                                                         state legislature enacted laws regarding the trend of local
                                                                                                         jurisdictions to require burial of new and upgraded utility
                                                                                                         lines. The state law requires that local jurisdictions who
19.79.010 - Purpose.                                                                                     require burial of power lines must bear the differential cost
                                                                                                         between overhead lines and buried lines (which are much
                                                                                                         more expensive).
     The purpose of the utility and facility system replacement regulations codified in this chapter
is to promote the health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the countymetro township;
preserve and protect existing aesthetics, property values, and quality of life within residential and
other areas of the countymetro township; and provide notice to the countymetro township and
affected property owners of new or upgraded utility or facility systems to allow an opportunity to
determine if sufficient reason exists to require the systems to be installed underground and to
determine if funds are available to pay for underground installation.



19.79.020 - Definitions.                                                                                 Commented [CW86]: Based on industry standards and
                                                                                                         distinctions in the state law.
    As used in this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
     "Accessory equipment" means the portion of the system including equipment sites,
transformers, switchgear, pedestals, terminals, meters, buildings (substations), and other similar
equipment that is normally installed aboveground in accordance with accepted practices of
underground systems.
     "Distribution system" means the portion of the system located between: (1) the service drop
transformer and the distribution substation for electric service, (2) the service drop and the receive
site (headend) for cable television, or (3) the service drop and the transmission system for
telephone service.
    "Facility company" means a company not regulated by the public service commission that
provides a service including but not limited to cable television or telecommunications.
     "Service drop" means the portion of the system located between the distribution system and
wall of the building or structure occupied or intended to be occupied by a customer.
    "System" means all poles, towers, wires, lines, cables, conduits, pipes and accessory
equipment providing service such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas, water,
sewer, steam or petroleum including service drops, distribution system, transmission system, and
accessory equipment.
    "Transmission system" means the portion of the system which is used to carry the service
from points of generation or switching centers to distribution points such as electrical substations
and equipment sites. In the case of electrical service, a transmission system is defined as carrying
a voltage of forty-six KV or more.
    "Utility company" means a company regulated by the public service commission that provides
a service including but not limited to electricity, telephone, or gas.



19.79.030 - Systems required to be underground.




                                                                                             Page 291
    Unless exempted under Section 19.79.040 of this chapter, the following systems may be
required to be installed underground:
    A.    All new transmission systems installed after the effective date of the ordinance codified
         in this chapter.
    B.    All upgraded transmission systems which would increase the height of poles from less
         than sixty-five feet to more than sixty-five feet above existing grade.



19.79.040 - Exemptions.

    The following systems are exempt from the provisions of Section 19.79.030 of this chapter:
    A.    Except as provided in Section 19.79.030(B) of this chapter, this chapter does not require
         the burial of any existing aboveground systems, nor does it prohibit or restrict the repair,
         relocation, maintenance, or replacement of any existing systems.
    B.   Aboveground installation of the following systems is permitted, subject to compliance
         with all other applicable statutes, ordinances, and regulations:
         1.   New service drops and/or distribution lines where service is available from existing      Commented [CW87]: This provision is in conflict with the
              aboveground systems;                                                                      Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone, which requires burial of
                                                                                                        service drops “where possible.”
         2.    Temporary systems required for construction projects not to exceed a period of
              twelve months;
         3.   Street light poles, light rail overhead catenary, wireless telecommunications towers,
              and accessory equipment;
         4.   Transmission systems installed in the two main north-south transmission corridors,
              as identified on the map entitled "main north-south electrical transmission corridors"
              on file with the planning and development services division.
    C.    In cases where unusual topographical, aesthetic, or other exceptional conditions or
         circumstances exist such that the installation of a system would have minimal visual,
         health, or safety impact on the public, variations or exceptions to the requirements of this
         chapter may be approved by the county mayormetro township mayor or designee;
         provided, that the variations and exceptions are consistent with the purposes of this
         chapter.
    D.    In cases where the county mayormetro township mayor or designee determines that               Commented [CW88]: This section is in reference to the
         insufficient funds are available to pay for the incremental costs of underground               state law requiring the local jurisdiction to pay for the cost
         installation of a system or determines that the public benefit to be derived from              difference between overhead and buried lines.
         underground installation is not cost effective or is otherwise not in the public interest:
         1.    The county mayormetro township mayor or designee shall give notice to the utility
              or facility company that the countymetro township will not require the underground
              installation and will not pay the incremental costs of underground installation of the
              system:
              a.   Within ninety days after notice is given under Section 19.79.050 of this chapter
                   in the case of a new transmission system; and
              b.    Within sixty days after notice is given under Section 19.79.050 of this chapter
                   in the case of a new distribution system or an upgraded transmission system


                                                                                            Page 292
                   which would increase the height of poles from less than sixty-five feet to more
                   than sixty-five feet above existing grade.
         2.    If the county mayormetro township mayor or designee has not given notice to the
              utility or facility company regarding underground installation as provided in
              subsection (D)(1) of this section it shall be deemed that the county mayormetro
              township mayor has determined that insufficient funds are available to pay for the
              incremental costs of underground installation or has determined that the public
              benefit to be derived from underground installation is otherwise not in the public
              interest.



19.79.050 - Notification of affected property owners.                                                       Commented [CW89]: This places the responsibility to
                                                                                                            notify neighbors on the utility company rather than the
      Prior to beginning a project involving the installation or upgrading of four or more poles, a         government.
utility/facility company providing electrical power for general consumption shall send written
notification of the project to all adjacent property owners and the director of public works. The
purpose of such notification is to allow the countymetro township and potentially affected property
owners to determine whether there are reasons to require the underground installation of the
system, to determine whether sufficient funds are available to pay the incremental costs of
underground installation of the new or upgraded system, and provide the countymetro township
the opportunity to meet with the company to discuss the project. Such notification shall include a
full description of the project including, but not limited to: (1) the need for the project, (2) location
of the project, (3) height, width, type and general location of poles, and (4) amount of voltage.
Failure of property owners to receive notice of the project shall in no way affect the validity of
action taken. Failure to reach an agreement within the sixty-day period shall not be grounds for
the delay of the project. Notification is not required for emergency projects, relocations,
replacements and systems which are exempt under Section 19.79.040 of this chapter except for
an exemption resulting after notification under Section 19.79.040(D) of this chapter.



19.79.060 - Excavation permit required.

     All underground systems to be installed in the right-of-way of any countymetro township road
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 14.16 of this code, Excavations.



Chapter 19.80 - OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS

Article I. - General Provisions



19.80.010 - Purpose.

    The purpose of this chapter is to reduce street congestion and traffic hazards in the
countymetro township by incorporating efficient, attractive facilities for off-street parking, loading,
and internal automobile and pedestrian circulation as an integral part of every use of land.


                                                                                               Page 293
19.80.020 - Off-street parking required.

A.    At the time any building or structure is erected, enlarged, increased in capacity, or any use
     is established, off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the requirements in this
     chapter.
B.    Plans Required to Obtain Building Permit. All applications for a building permit shall be          Commented [CW90]: Parking is an issue that always
     accompanied by a site plan showing a parking layout that complies with the provisions of this       must be considered at the time a building is built and again
     chapter that shows ingress and egress, loading areas, internal automobile and pedestrian            anytime it is remodeled to change the use. As shown
     circulation, and landscaping. The plan shall be reviewed and approved by the planning and           below, the parking demand for a 3000 square foot
                                                                                                         restaurant is much higher than for a 3000 square foot
     development services division consistent with the provisions of this chapter. Parking
                                                                                                         bookstore.
     requirements may be calculated separately for each business or land use in a building.



19.80.030 - Specifications.

A.    Parking Stall Size. Each off-street parking space shall be at least nine feet by eighteen feet     Commented [CW91]: These parking stall sizes have
     for diagonal or ninety-degree spaces, or eight by twenty feet for parallel spaces, exclusive of     essentially not changed since the 1960s, originally being 160
     access drives or aisles. Parking stalls adjacent to a column or wall must have an additional        square feet, then being modified to 9’ x 18’.
     two feet of width to accommodate ingress/egress from the vehicle. Access to parking spaces
     shall be from private roadways and not from public streets.
B.    Parking Lot Policies. Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township may adopt policies                  Commented [CW92]: The County planning commission
     regarding aisle widths, angled parking, and turn-around areas for parking lots, and parking         adopted standards many years ago regarding aisle widths
     stall sizes for valet parking.                                                                      and specifications for angled parking that used to be
                                                                                                         published as part of the ordinance, but are no longer
C.    Surfacing. Except for "provisional parking areas" as allowed under Section 19.80.110 of this       included because they are only policies.
     chapter, any off-street parking area located in an R-, C-, M-, MD-, or O-R-D zone shall be
     surfaced with an asphaltic or portland cement or other binder pavement, so as to provide a
     durable and dustless surface, shall be so graded and drained as to dispose of all surface
     water accumulated within the area, and shall be so arranged and marked as to provide the
     orderly and safe loading or unloading and parking and storage of vehicles. Surfacing
     requirements for parking areas located in FR-, FM-, A-, FA-, and S-1-G zones shall take into
     account the proposed land use, location of the property, and impact of paved parking.
D.     Maintenance. Every parcel of land hereafter used as a public or private parking area,
     including commercial parking lots and automobile, farm equipment, or other open-air sales
     lots, shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the requirements set out in this
     chapter.
E.    Screening. The sides and rear of any off-street parking area for more than five vehicles which
     adjoins or faces an institutional use or residential building shall be effectively screened by a
     masonry wall or solid visual barrier fence unless otherwise provided for more specifically by
     the requirements of the zoning district in which such parking area is located. Such wall or
     fence shall be not less than six feet in height and shall be maintained in good condition without
     any advertising thereon.
F.   Landscaping. All parking areas shall contain landscaping in compliance with the provisions
     of Chapter 19.77 of this title.




                                                                                             Page 294
G.     Lighting. Lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be so arranged as to
     direct light away from adjoining premises and from street traffic. No light source (light bulb,    Commented [CW93]: This requires the light bulbs
     fluorescent tube, or other direct source of light used to illuminate a parking area) shall be      themselves to be recessed up into the light fixture itself.
     visible beyond the property line of any off-street parking area.
H.    Coverage. No off-street parking area shall occupy more than sixty-five percent of the
     property not occupied by buildings.



19.80.035 - Parking in R-1 and R-2 Residential Zones.                                                   Commented [CW94]: This section was first enacted in
                                                                                                        2012 in an effort to better regulate what kind of vehicles
A.    Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or right-of-way      could be parked where on residential lots.
     to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone. The driveway shall be
     constructed of a durable, hard surface such as: concrete (including permeable concrete),
     asphalt (including permeable asphalt), brick, pavers, stone, or block. The number, location,
     and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set forth in sections 14.12.110
     and 14.36.060 of the CountyMetro township Code of Ordinances. Driveways over one
     hundred fifty feet in length are subject to approval by the fire authority. The area within the
     front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a driveway or parking surface
     set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the applicable provisions of this title
     regulating landscaping.
B.   Private vehicles. Private vehicles parked on residential property in any R-1 or R-2 zone shall
     comply with the following:
     1.    If parked or stored on a paved surface in compliance with section 19.80.030.C or
          19.83.035.A, a private vehicle may be located in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of
          a dwelling.
     2.    If parked or stored on any other type of surface, private vehicles must be behind the
          front line of the dwelling and screened from view from public streets or neighboring
          properties with a six-foot, tall (minimum) opaque fence.
C.   Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any
     R-1 or R-2 zone shall comply with the following:
     1.    If parked or stored on a paved surface in compliance with section 19.80.030.C or
          19.83.035.A, a recreational vehicle may be located in the front yard, side yard, or rear
          yard of a dwelling. Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a
          parking pad which is constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be
          kept weed free.
     2.    If parked or stored on any other type of surface, recreational vehicles must be behind
          the front line of the dwelling and screened from view from public streets or neighboring
          properties with a six-foot tall (minimum) opaque fence.
D.    Commercial vehicles. Commercial vehicles shall not be parked or stored on residential
     property in an R-1 or R-2 zone, except in the following circumstances:
     1.   Commercial vehicles may be parked on a property in conjunction with lawfully- permitted
          construction, maintenance, or site development activities so long as said activities are
          diligently pursued.




                                                                                            Page 295
     2.    One commercial vehicle may be parked behind the front line of the dwelling and,
          screened from view from public streets or neighboring properties with a six-foot tall
          (minimum) opaque fence.
     3.    One commercial vehicle may be parked in the front yard or side yard of a dwelling, in         Commented [CW95]: This provision was designed to
          the R-1 or R-2 zones upon issuance of a permit by planning and development services,           allow vehicles like tow trucks to be parked on a residential
          as long as all of the following criteria are met:                                              lot provided it is within certain size limits and parked on a
                                                                                                         legal surface.
          a.   No other commercial vehicle is parked or stored on the property.
          b.   The operator of the vehicle is required to be on call 24 hours a day to use the vehicle
               in response to an emergency;
          c.   The commercial vehicle is parked on a paved surface in compliance with section
               19.80.030.C or 19.80.035.A;
          d.   The commercial vehicle is parked entirely on private property, not parked on or over
               the street or sidewalk; and
          e.    The commercial vehicle does not exceed Class 5 (two-axle, six tire single unit
               trucks) in Federal Highway Administration vehicle classification.



Article II. - Parking Requirements



19.80.040 - Number of spaces required.                                                                   Commented [CW96]: This used to be written as a
                                                                                                         “minimum” number of stalls provision, but in order to
A.    Except where variations and exceptions are allowed under Sections 19.80.070 through                prevent over-parking, it was changed to be a “no more, no
     19.80.100 of this chapter, a number of parking spaces equal to the sum of the required              less” number of stalls.
     number of parking spaces for all uses on a property, including multiple uses within the same
     building, shall be provided. Except in cases where a site-specific traffic study demonstrates
     a need for additional parking, no parking area for more than twenty stalls shall exceed the
     number of stalls required below unless the additional parking is installed as "provisional
     parking" under Section 19.80.110 of this chapter. The number of off-street parking spaces
     required shall be as follows:
     1.   Amusement center (arcade), one space per one hundred square feet of floor area;
     2.   Automobile or machinery sales and service garages, two spaces plus one space for
          each four hundred square feet of floor area;
     3.   Banks, post offices, business and professional offices, one space for each two hundred
          fifty square feet of gross floor area;
     4.   Bowling alleys, five for each alley;
     5.    Churches, one space for each six and one-half feet of linear pew or three and one-half
          seats in an auditorium; provided, however, that where a church building is designed or
          intended to be used by two congregations at the same time, one and one-half parking
          spaces shall be provided for each three and one-half seats in the auditorium. For
          buildings designed or intended to be used for conferences or other special meetings
          involving more than the regular congregations, additional parking shall be required as
          determined by the planning commission;


                                                                                             Page 296
6.     Dancehalls and assembly halls without fixed seats, exhibition halls, except church
      assembly rooms in conjunction with auditorium, three spaces for each one hundred
      square feet of floor area used by assembly or dancing;
7.    Day care center for children, four spaces plus one space per five hundred square feet
      of floor area;
8.    Dormitory building, one space for each tenant;
9.    Dwellings, multiple, two spaces for each dwelling unit. In multi-family developments and
      dwelling groups where private covered parking is utilized, additional parking for guests
      shall be required. The planning commission shall determine the amount of guest parking
      required to meet the parking needs of each development;
10.     Dwellings, single-family, two spaces for each dwelling unit. For single-family dwellings,
      the parking spaces may be arranged one behind the other;
11.     Funeral homes, mortuaries, reception centers, one space for each forty square feet of
      floor area in assembly room;
12.     Furniture and appliance stores, household equipment or furniture repair shop, one
      space for each six hundred square feet of gross leasable area;
13.     Hospitals and convalescent hospitals, two spaces per bed for the total capacity of
      building;
14.     Hotels, motels and motor hotels, one space for each living or sleeping unit, plus parking
      for all accessory uses as defined in this title;
15.    Indoor firearms and/or archery range, two spaces per shooting point;
16.    Manufacturing plants, research or testing laboratories, bottling plants, one space for
      each person employed on the highest employment shift;
17.    Medical or dental clinics, six spaces for each doctor's office;
18.    Nursing homes, four spaces plus one space per each five beds;
19.     Recreation, four spaces per court for tennis courts, three spaces per court for
      racquetball courts, two spaces per court for squash courts;
20.    Residential health care facility:
      a.   Four spaces for facilities with five or less residents, the parking spaces may be
           arranged one behind the other,
      b.   Four spaces plus one space per each five beds;
21.     Restaurants or private nonprofit clubs, one space for each two and one-half seats or
      three spaces per one hundred square feet of floor area, whichever is greater;                 Commented [CW97]: “floor area” is generally considered
                                                                                                    by the planning staff to be the restaurant’s seating area, not
22.     Retail stores, shops, etc., except as provided in this subsection, one space for each       the entire restaurant.
      two hundred fifty square feet of gross floor area;
23.    Rooming and lodging homes, one space for each tenant;
24.     Schools, one space for each three and one-half seats in an auditorium, plus one space
      for each administrator and faculty;
25.     Shopping centers and other multi-tenant retail buildings, five spaces for each one
      thousand square feet of gross leasable area;



                                                                                        Page 297
     26.     Sports arenas, auditoriums, theaters, assembly halls and meeting rooms, one space
           for each three and one-half seats of maximum seating capacity;
     27.     Trailer sales, five spaces minimum, or five percent of the total site area excluding the
           landscaped areas, whichever is greater;
     28.      Wholesale establishments, warehouses, service and maintenance centers and
           communication equipment buildings, one space for each person employed during the
           highest employment shift;
     29.    Bed and breakfast homestay, two spaces for each dwelling unit plus one space for
           each guestroom;
     30.     Short-term rental, two spaces per dwelling unit plus one additional space for each
           bedroom exceeding two bedrooms. For buildings with two dwelling units or less, the third
           and fourth spaces, when required, can be in tandem with the first two spaces required;
     31.     Bed and breakfast inn, one space for each person employed on the highest
           employment shift, plus one space for every guestroom, plus parking for all accessory
           uses defined in this title;
     32.     Residential facility for elderly persons, two spaces for the dwelling unit plus two spaces
           for visitors, the parking spaces may be arranged one behind the other;
     33.    Apartments for elderly persons, one space for each dwelling unit;
     34.    Outdoor display and sales, including garden centers, nurseries, lumber yards, building
           materials sales yards; one space for each one thousand square feet of display and sales
           area.
B.    Number of Parking Spaces for Uses Not Specified. For any use of buildings not specified in           Commented [CW98]: This section was amended to allow
     this section, or for uses of a seasonal or temporary nature, the off-street parking requirement       us to consult know industry standards to determine parking
     shall be determined by the division director being guided, where appropriate, by comparable           for unique uses. Prior to that, we had to find the most
     ordinances from other jurisdictions, accepted planning industry standards, or the                     similar use from the list above and use that ratio.
     requirements set forth in this section for uses or buildings which, in the opinion of the division
     director, are similar to the use or building under consideration.
C.    Accessible Parking Spaces. For nonresidential parking areas, the accessible parking spaces
     required to satisfy the Americans with Disabilities Act shall be provided within the total
     number of stalls required above. For multi-family residential developments, the accessible
     stalls shall be provided in addition to the number of stalls required above.
D.    Bicycle Parking. To encourage the use of bicycles for personal transportation as an                  Commented [CW99]: This was inserted in 2005 after
     alternative to motor vehicles, requirements are established herein to provide bicycle parking         much lobbying by the bicycle coalition.
     at regional, community, neighborhood, and other transportation and travel destinations.
     1.      Bicycle parking facilities shall be provided for any new commercial, office,
           manufacturing, industrial, multi-family residential, recreational, public and/or quasi-public
           use for which automobile parking is required; or for modification or change of any use
           listed above that results in the need for additional automobile parking facilities, as
           follows:
           a.   The number of bicycle parking spaces required shall be equal to five percent of the
                vehicular parking spaces required for such use, with a minimum requirement of two
                spaces, and a maximum requirement of twelve.
           b.   Bicycle parking spaces shall be:



                                                                                               Page 298
              i.     Located on the same lot as the principal use;
              ii.    Located and designed to prevent damage to bicycles by cars;
              iii.    Located so as not to interfere with pedestrian movements;
              iv.     Located in a highly visible, well-lighted area that is located near entrance(s) to
                     the building;
              v.     Located to provide safe access from the spaces to the public right-of-way or
                     bicycle lane;
              vi.     Designed to accommodate a range of bicycle shapes and sizes, and to allow
                     the frame and wheel(s) of each bicycle to be supported and secured against
                     theft without interfering with adjacent bicycles;
              vii.    Anchored to resist removal by vandalism and resistant to rust or corrosion.
     2.   Bicycle parking spaces which meet the above requirements may be located within the
          building.
     3.    The proposed bicycle parking spaces shall be clearly shown on the site plan indicating
          location and type.



19.80.050 - Off-street loading.                                                                            Commented [CW100]: This is outdated and probably can
                                                                                                           be removed. Loading docks are designed into buildings that
      For every building or part thereof not provided with docking facilities which has a gross floor      need them with or without this ordinance.
area of ten thousand square feet or more, and which is to be occupied by a commercial or
industrial use to or from which delivery of materials or merchandise is regularly made by motor
vehicle, there shall be provided and maintained on the same lot with such building at least one
off-street loading space, plus one additional space for each additional twenty thousand square
feet or major fraction thereof. Each loading space shall be not less than ten feet in width, twenty-
five feet in length, and fourteen feet in height. Such space may occupy any required yard or court
only if it is enclosed by a brick or stone wall not less than six feet in height.



19.80.060 - Gasoline pump requirements.

A.     Gasoline pumps shall be set back not less than twenty-four feet from any street property
     line, and not less than thirty feet from any residential zone boundary line. If the pump island
     is set at an angle on the property, it shall be so located that automobiles stopped for service
     will not extend over the property line.
B.    Canopies constructed to provide a weather shield over gasoline pump islands shall be set
     back not less than six feet from any street line and not less than ten feet from any residential
     zone boundary.



Article III. - Variations and Exceptions                                                                   Commented [CW101]: This section is designed to allow
                                                                                                           some flexibility for reducing or altering parking
                                                                                                           requirements.



                                                                                               Page 299
19.80.070 - Valet parking program.

A.   A valet parking program is defined as a parking plan which has personnel retained to assist
     parking at a drop-off area and exclusively controls the parking of vehicles into valet spaces
     until they are returned to a pick-up area. The plan shall identify the following
     1.   The location of parking spaces, pick-up areas, drop-off areas, and egress/ingress;
     2.   The involvement of personnel; and
     3.   General operating procedures.
B.    Eight percent of the required parking spaces shall be reserved as self-parking spaces and
     shall be indicated as such on the plan. Self-parking spaces shall meet the requirements of
     Section 19.80.030.



19.80.080 - Shared parking.                                                                             Commented [CW102]: The idea behind shared parking is
                                                                                                        to allow more than one business to share a parking area
A.   Notwithstanding any other parking requirements provided in this chapter, when different land       based on the fact that peak parking demand times are
     uses occupy the same or adjacent lot(s) in the R-M, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-V. M-1, M-2, MD-1,            different for different types of businesses.
     MD-3, or the O-R-D zones, the total number of off-street parking spaces required for each
     use (see Section 19.80.040 of this chapter) may be combined and shared upon approval as
     provided herein. A proposal for sharing of off-street parking shall be presented to the planning
     and development services division director for site plan review and approval. Conditional use
     applications which require planning commission approval, and for which shared parking is
     being proposed as part of the application, must have planning commission approval for the
     shared parking.
B.    In determining the total requirements for shared parking facilities, the division director or
     planning commission shall use Table 19.80.080(a), set out below, according to the following
     guidelines:
     1.   For each applicable general land use category, calculate the number of spaces required
          for a use as if it were the only use (refer to the schedule of minimum off-street parking
          requirements).
     2.    Use the figures for each individual land use to calculate the number of spaces required
          for that use for each time period specified in the table (six time periods per use).
     3.   For each time period, add the number of spaces required for all applicable land uses to
          obtain a grand total for each of the six time periods.
     4.   Select the time period with the highest total parking requirement and use that as the total
          number of parking spaces required for the site on a shared parking basis.
C.    For uses not listed in Table 19.80.080(a), the division director shall determine the required
     parking for the six time periods.
                                        Table 19.80.080(a)                                              Commented [CW103]: This table was kept pretty simple,
                                                                                                        but it has been suggested there are certain land use types
                                       Weekdays                             Weekends                    that aren’t very well accounted for.




                                                                                            Page 300
                             12:00        7:00      6:00      12:00             7:00      6:00
   General Land Use
                            a.m.—       a.m.—      p.m.—     a.m.—            a.m.—      p.m.—
      Category
                           7:00 a.m.   6:00 p.m. 12:00 a.m. 7:00 a.m.        6:00 p.m. 12:00 a.m.

   Office & Industrial        5%         100%          5%           0%          5%          0%

          Retail              5%         100%         80%           5%         100%         60%

       Restaurant             50%         70%         100%         70%         50%         100%

          Hotel              100%         65%         100%        100%         65%         100%

       Residential           100%         50%         80%         100%         75%          75%

 Theater/entertainment        5%          20%         100%          5%         50%         100%

    Place of worship          0%          30%         50%           0%         100%         75%




19.80.090 - Planning commission exceptions.                                                             Commented [CW104]: This was written to give the
                                                                                                        planning commission as much latitude as possible while still
     Upon a finding by the planning commission that a proposed site plan is in harmony with the         providing some criteria on which to base their decision.
general plan of the community in which it is located and that effective tools have been employed
in the creation of a transit oriented development, community re-development project, or walkable
community project, the planning commission may reduce the number of required parking stalls
for any proposed development. In approving any such reduction, the planning commission may
use such tools as: recommendations from the planning and development services staff a site-
specific traffic study conducted by a qualified engineering firm, American Planning Association
guidelines, Envision Utah guidelines, and/or Urban Land Institute guidelines.



19.80.100 - Community parking credits.                                                                  Commented [CW105]: On street parking and community
                                                                                                        parking lots are being used more and more often to reduce
     Upon a finding by the planning commission for conditional uses or the planning and                 the need for parking lots unique to each business.
development services division director for permitted uses, that parking is available either on public
property or on property leased by a public entity for community parking, which parking is
conveniently located to a particular land use, credits may be given toward the parking requirement
for said land use. In cases where multiple businesses or land uses qualify to use the same parking
spaces for community parking credits, the credits shall be pro-rated for each land use. In
calculating the pro-rated community parking credits, the planning commission or division director
shall consider such factors as: the amount of frontage a property has on the street, the total
number of parking stalls required for a given land use, and the potential for future development in
the immediate vicinity creating further demand for parking spaces. The planning commission or



                                                                                            Page 301
division director may also use Table 19.80.080(a) for land uses in different general categories to
consider shared community parking.



19.80.110 - Provisional parking.                                                                       Commented [CW106]: This was added as a way to
                                                                                                       reduce the amount of paved surface being required in cases
    "Provisional parking" is defined as an area or areas within a parking lot where parking spaces     where the number of stalls required by ordinance may not
which are shown on the approved parking plan are landscaped rather than paved. The following           be warranted for a given business. The area for parking is
conditions apply to provisional parking areas:                                                         accounted for on the site plan, but not all of it is paved
                                                                                                       unless the need for it is shown.
     1.   Provisional parking spaces must be shown on the site plan as complying with the parking
          stall size requirements of this chapter as well as the maneuverability and aisle
          requirements of planning commission policy.
     2.   Provisional parking spaces may be landscaped in such a way that they can be used for
          parking on a seasonal or temporary basis.
     3.    After one year's time from the issuance of the land use permit, a property owner may
          request a review of the provisional parking. Upon a finding by the planning commission
          for conditional uses or the division director of planning and development services for
          permitted uses that the additional parking is needed, approval shall be granted for the
          provisional parking to be paved.
     4.   The planning commission may set conditions of approval as part of any conditional use
          permit that utilizes provisional parking as allowed under Section 19.84.050 to provide for
          monitoring and future review of the parking plan.



Chapter 19.81 - HIGHWAY NOISE ABATEMENT MEASURES                                                       Commented [CW107]: This chapter doesn’t have
                                                                                                       applicability in Copperton. If, in the future, Copperton does
                                                                                                       have a highway in it’s boundaries, a chapter like this could
                                                                                                       be adopted in the future. However, there have been times
19.81.010 - Findings.                                                                                  when the installation of “sound walls” actually makes the
                                                                                                       sound problem worse rather than better.
A.    The Federal Highway Administration (FHWA) regulation entitled "Procedures for Abatement
     of Highway Traffic Noise and Construction Noise" (23 CFR 772) provides procedures for
     noise studies and noise abatement measures to help protect the public health and welfare,
     supplies noise abatement criteria, and establishes requirements for information to be given
     to local officials for use in the planning and design of federal-aid highways. The Utah
     Department of Transportation (UDOT) policy entitled "Noise Abatement" (Policy #08-111),
     adopted pursuant to 23 CFR 772, addresses highway noise impacts and sets forth conditions
     under which noise abatement projects may be approved and constructed in the state of Utah
     with the use of federal-aid highway participation funds.
B.    In order for UDOT to obtain participation funds from FHWA for proposed federal-aid highway
     projects for noise abatement measures on existing highways (known as "Type II Projects"),
     local authorities are required to take measures "...to exercise land use control over the
     remaining undeveloped lands adjacent to highways in the local jurisdiction to prevent further
     development of incompatible activities." 23 CFR 772.13(b).




                                                                                           Page 302
C.    In an effort to prevent future traffic noise impacts on currently undeveloped lands, 23 CFR
     772.15 requires that highway agencies shall inform local officials within whose jurisdiction the
     highway project is located of the following:
     1.    The best estimation of future noise levels (for various distances from the highway
          improvement) for both developed and undeveloped lands or properties in the immediate
          vicinity of the project;
     2.    Information that may be useful to local communities to protect future land development
          from becoming incompatible with anticipated highway noise levels; and
     3.    Eligibility for federal-aid participation for Type II Projects as described in 23 CFR
          772.13(b).
D.    In order for Salt Lake County residents to benefit from the development and implementation
     of Type II Projects for noise abatement along eligible highways within its boundaries, it is
     found to be in the county's best interests to comply with federal regulation and state policy
     by adopting this zoning ordinance codified in this chapter.



19.81.020 - Purpose of provisions.

     The ordinance codified in this chapter is enacted for the purpose of promoting the health,
safety and general welfare of the citizens of the county by minimizing the potential adverse effects
of highway traffic noise and by complying with state and federal requirements for highway traffic
noise abatement projects.



19.81.030 - Development of property adjacent to certain state highways.

      Consistent with the requirements of 23 CFR 772 and UDOT's Noise Abatement Policy #08-
111, no remaining undeveloped lands located in the unincorporated county adjacent to Type II
Projects (freeways and expressways) shall be developed for any use or activity which is
incompatible with highway traffic noise levels, unless the development of such lands shall include
appropriate noise abatement measures determined necessary and appropriate by the county and
UDOT. A use or activity shall be deemed incompatible with highway traffic noise levels when a
"traffic noise impact" occurs, as determined under the following formula:
                                     Noise Abatement Criteria
                           Hourly A-Weighted Sound Level—decibels (dBA)
                              Leq shown are maximum levels allowed:

  Activity
                Leq(h)                        Description of Activity Category
 Category


                 57          Lands on which serenity and quiet are of extraordinary significance
      A
              (exterior)     and serve an important public need and where the preservation of




                                                                                            Page 303
                              those qualities is essential if the area is to continue to serve its
                                                     intended purpose.


                           Picnic areas, fixed recreation areas, playgrounds, active sports areas,
                 67
     B                      parks, residences, motels, hotels, schools, churches, libraries, and
              (exterior)
                                                          hospitals.


                           Cemeteries, commercial areas, industrial areas, office buildings, and
                 72
     C                        other developed lands, properties or activities not included in
              (exterior)
                                               Categories A or B above.


                              Undeveloped lands (including roadside facilities and dispersed
     D           —
                                                      recreation).


                  52       Residences, motels, hotels, public meeting rooms, schools, churches,
     E
              (interior)                  libraries, hospitals, and auditoriums.




19.81.040 - Responsibility of owner or developer.

     The owner or developer of land to be subdivided, improved or developed adjacent to Type II
Projects shall be responsible to comply with any and all requirements for noise abatement
measures imposed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. Failure to so comply shall constitute
a violation of county ordinance and shall be punishable as a misdemeanor as provided in Chapter
1.12 of this title.



Chapter 19.82 - SIGNS                                                                                    Commented [CW108]: A chapter regulating signs was
                                                                                                         first adopted in 1981. Prior to that, “nameplates and signs”
                                                                                                         was listed as a permitted use in many zones, and the size
                                                                                                         allowed was determined by the definitions section.
19.82.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of this chapter is to eliminate excessive and confusing sign displays that create
potential hazards to motorists, pedestrians, property, and also to maintain a responsible
communication system by setting requirements for the location, size, height and lighting of signs
that will be compatible with adjoining land uses, architecture and landscape, and that will preserve
and improve the aesthetic values and visual qualities of Salt Lake Countymetro township.

                                                                                                         Commented [CW109]: A set of definitions was
                                                                                                         developed in response to the myriad of different types of
                                                                                                         signs and sign-related issues people have proposed over the
19.82.020 - Definitions.                                                                                 years.


                                                                                              Page 304
    As used in this chapter:
     "A-frame sign" means temporary and/or movable sign constructed with two sides attached at
the top so as to allow the sign to stand in an upright position.
    "Advertising sign." See "off-premises sign."
    "Alterations" means a change or rearrangement in the structural parts or design whether by
extending on a side, by increasing in area or height, or by relocating or change in position.
     "Animated sign" means a sign which induces motion or rotation of any part by mechanical,
or artificial means, or subdued color changes.
    "Animation" means simulated movement created by the display of a series of pictures or
images, creating the illusion of movement.
    "Awning sign" means a sign designed in awning form that is an illuminated or nonilluminated
space frame structure attached to a building or other permanent structure.
     "Balloon sign" means advertisement supported by a balloon anchored to the premises where
the advertised use is conducted, product or commodity sold, service performed, or business name
is located.
    "Beacon light" means:
    a.   Any light with one or more beams, capable of being directed in any direction or directions,
         or capable of being revolved automatically; or
    b.   A fixed or flashing high-intensity light, such as a spotlight, a floodlight, or a strobe light.
    c.   "Beacon light" shall not include searchlights.
    "Billboard bank" means an accounting system established by the countymetro township to
keep track of the number of billboard signs and the square footage of each billboard sign removed
pursuant to Section 19.82.185 of this chapter.
     "Billboard credit" means an entry into a billboard owner's billboard bank account that indicates
the number of billboard sign locations and the square footage of each billboard sign.
    "Billboard owner" means the owner of a billboard in unincorporated Salt Lake Countythe
metro township.
    "Billboard sign" means an off-premises advertising sign.
    "Business sign" means an on-premises sign.
    "Construction sign" means a sign identifying an existing or proposed development project
which may contain the name of the project, name and address of construction firms, architects,
engineers, developers, etc.
     "Dissolve" means an image transition effect accomplished by varying the image intensity or
pattern, where the first image gradually appears to dissipate and lose legibility simultaneously
with the gradual appearance and legibility of the subsequent image.
    "Electronic message center" or "EMC" means a mechanism or device which uses a
combination of lights, or lighted or unlighted panels which are controlled electrically and
electronically to produce words, symbols, pictures or messages which may change within a given
panel area.




                                                                                               Page 305
     "Embellishment, cut-out or extension" means an extension of the billboard resulting in
increased square footage as part of an artistic design to convey a specific message or
advertisement.
     "Existing billboard" means a billboard that is either constructed, or for which an application
for a land use permit was received and approved by the planning and development services
division and state authorities where necessary, prior to May 18, 2004. Billboards that have
received prior approval from the countymetro township at a particular location must be approved
by the state by June 2, 2005. If no state approval is given, the countymetro township approval
shall expire on said date and the permit shall become null and void.
    "Fade" means an image transition effect accomplished by varying the intensity of the image,
where the first image gradually reduces intensity to the point of not being legible and the
subsequent image gradually increases intensity to the point of legibility.
    "Flashing sign" means a sign which has or appears to have motion or rotation of the lighting
elements or displays flashing or intermittent light.
    "Flat sign" means a sign erected parallel to and attached to the outside wall of a building and
extending not more than twenty-four inches from such wall with messages or copy on the face
side only.
     "Floodlighted sign" means a sign made legible in the absence of daylight by devices which
reflect or project light upon it.
    "Footcandle" means the English unit of measurement for illuminance, which is equal to one
lumen, incident upon an area of one foot.
    "Ground sign" means a sign supported by a fixed permanent frame support in the ground.
     "Illuminance" means the photometric quantity most closely associated with the perception of
brightness and a measurement of the intensity of light falling on a surface at a given distance from
the light source.
     "Illuminated sign" means a sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs or outlines
illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes.
    "Image" means the display of text, numbers or the likeness of an object or living thing of any
type on an EMC.
    "Image display duration" means the period of time that an image remains static.
    "Image transition duration" means the period of time in which one image changes to another
on an electronic message center.
     "Interior sign" means a sign located within a building so as to be primarily visible only from
within the building in which the sign is located.
    "Mobile sign" means a sign mounted on trailer or frame, lighted or unlighted, which is not
permanently attached to a structure or the ground.
    "Monument sign" means a sign which is incorporated into the landscape or architectural
design scheme and displaying the name of uses or buildings.
    "Nameplate sign" means a sign indicating the name and/or occupation of a person legally
occupying the premises or indicating a legal home occupation thereon.
    "Nonconforming billboard" means an existing billboard that is located in a zoning district or
otherwise situated in a way that is not permitted by the provisions of this chapter.



                                                                                           Page 306
     "Nonconforming sign or sign structure" means a sign or sign structure or portion thereof
lawfully existing at the effective date of this chapter or any amendment hereto which does not
conform to all height, area, yard, spacing, animation, lighting, use or other regulations prescribed
in the zone in which it is located after the effective date of this chapter or any amendment hereto.
     "Off-premises sign" means a sign directing attention to a use, product, commodity or service
not related to the premises upon which the sign is located.
   "On-premises sign" means a sign directing attention to a use conducted, product or
commodity sold, service performed or business name upon the premises on which it is located.
     "Overhanging sign" means a sign which projects twelve inches or more over the roof of a
building.
    "Pedestal sign" means a temporary and/or movable sign supported by a column(s) and a
base so as to allow the sign to stand in an upright position.
     "Political sign" means a sign advertising a candidate or candidates for public elective office,
or a political party, or a sign urging a particular vote on a public issue decided by ballot.
     "Projecting sign" means a sign attached to a building or canopy and extending in whole or
part more than twenty-four inches beyond any wall of the building or canopy.
    "Promotional sign board" means a permanently attached changeable copy sign not
exceeding twenty square feet per face with one or two faces back to back for the display of
promotional items offered for sale on the premises.
    "Property sign" means a sign related to the property upon which it is located and offering
such information as address, name of occupant for residential uses, sale or lease of the property,
warning against trespassing, any hazard, or other danger on the property.
     "Roof sign" means a sign which is erected partly or wholly on the roof of the building.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a sign structure having main supports embedded in the ground
shall not be considered to be a roof sign even if the sign's supports pass through a roof, canopy
or parapet of a building.
     "Scintillate" or "scintillating" means light flashes, light sparkling, light starbursts, light
twinkling, light pulsating or any other image transition effect or animation in which an image
instantly and repeatedly changes for the purpose of attracting attention.
     "Service sign" means a sign that is incidental to a use lawfully occupying the property upon
which the sign is located and which sign is necessary to provide information to the public, such
as direction to parking lots, location of restrooms, entrance and exits, etc. A service sign shall
also include signs providing information about sale of agricultural products produced upon the
premises. A business trade mark or logo may appear on the sign provided it is secondary to the
information portion of the sign.
     "Sign" means and includes every advertising message, announcement, declaration,
demonstration, display, illustration, insignia surface or space erected or maintained in view of the
observer thereof for identification, advertisement or promotion of the interests of any person,
entity, product or service. "Sign" also includes the sign structure supports, lighting system and
any attachments, ornaments or other features used to draw the attention of observers.
     "Sign area" means the area of a sign that is used for display purposes, excluding the minimum
frame and supports. In computing sign area, only one side of a back-to-back or double-faced sign
shall be computed when signs are parallel or diverge from a common edge by an angle of not
more than forty-five degrees.


                                                                                           Page 307
     In relation to signs that do not have a frame or a separate background, sign area shall be
computed on the basis of the least rectilinear line with a maximum of eight sides, triangle or circle
large enough to frame the display.
    Sign areas in the shape of a sphere, prism, cylinder, cone, pyramid, square or other such
shapes shall be computed as one-half of the total surface area.
    "Sign maintenance" means that signs shall be maintained in a safe, presentable and good
condition, including the replacement of defective parts, repainting, cleaning and other acts
required for the maintenance of the sign.
     "Sign setback" means the minimum distance that any portion of a sign or sign structure shall
be from any street right-of-way line and yard line coterminous with a street.
    "Sign structure" means anything constructed or erected supporting a sign which requires
location on or below the ground or attached to something having location on or below the ground.
    "Snipe sign" means a sign which is attached to a public utility pole, fixture poles, canopy
supports, or the supports for another sign.
     "Static" means no motion of any type or form.
     "Temporary sign," as regulated by this title, shall include any sign, banner, pennant, valance
or advertising display constructed of paper, cloth, canvas, light fabric, cardboard, wallboard or
other light materials, with or without frames, intended to be displayed out of doors for a short
period of time.
    "Time and temperature device" means any mechanism that displays the time and/or
temperature but does not display any commercial advertising or identification.
      "Video" means simulated movement created by the display of a series of images creating the
illusion of continuous movement.
    "Wall sign" means a sign that is either painted on a wall or its facing by not having a sign
frame or separation from the wall or facing.
     "Window sign" means a sign permanently attached and located within a building so as to be
visible through a window or door outside of the building.



19.82.025 - Noncommercial signs.                                                                        Commented [CW110]: Free speech issue.

    Any sign authorized under this chapter is allowed to contain noncommercial copy in lieu of
any permissible copy.



19.82.030 - Interpretation.                                                                             Commented [CW111]: Probably due to various legal
                                                                                                        challenges over the years.
A.   Properties divided by public streets are not adjacent.
B.   The sign requirements contained in this chapter are declared to be the maximum allowable.
C.   Sign types not specifically allowed as set forth within this chapter shall be prohibited.




                                                                                            Page 308
D.   Where other ordinances are in conflict with the provisions of this chapter, the most restrictive
     ordinance shall apply.



19.82.040 - Conformity required.

A.    Except as provided in this title, a sign shall not be erected, raised, moved, placed,
     reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered, unless in conformity with the regulations
     specified in this chapter.
B.    A nonconforming sign shall not be reconstructed, raised, moved, placed, extended or                Commented [CW112]: This provision is different from
     enlarged unless the sign is changed so as to conform to all provisions of this title. Alterations   the “nonconforming uses and noncomplying structures”
     shall also mean the changing of the text or message that the sign is conveying from one use         chapter found later in the ordinance. Not really sure why
     of the premises to another use of the premises and the changing of the ownership of the sign        non-conforming signs are not allowed to be altered in any
                                                                                                         way, particularly when those signs are sometimes viewed as
     when that ownership necessitates a change in the text or message of the sign. Alterations
                                                                                                         iconic landmarks by locals.
     shall not be interpreted to include changing the text or copy of electronic message centers,
     off-premises advertising signs, theater signs, outdoor bulletin or other similar signs which are
     designed to accommodate changeable copy.



19.82.050 - Exceptions.

A.    When a parcel of land is five acres or larger, the planning commission may consider an on-         Commented [CW113]: This provision has been used to
     premises sign proposal for a development on such parcel that is less restrictive than the           allow multiple businesses in a shopping center to share
     regulations set forth in this chapter, as a conditional use providing there is a determination      space on one over-sized sign; but also to allow special uses
     that the proposed sign exceptions are:                                                              like the Olympic speed skating oval in Kearns to have
                                                                                                         signage that otherwise would not have been allowed.
     1.   Not in conflict with the purpose of this chapter;
     2.   In architectural harmony with the development and other buildings and uses adjacent to
          the development.
B.   Signs not regulated by this chapter:                                                                Commented [CW114]: This section may need to be
                                                                                                         changed in light of a landmark supreme court decision
     1.   On-premises advertising signs that are attached to windows or walls and are clearly of         regarding non-commercial signs.
          a temporary nature, which promote specific sales;
     2.   Signs which are associated with school or church events and functions, which are clearly
          of a temporary nature;
     3.   Interior signs;
     4.   Time and temperature devices;
     5.   Searchlights.



19.82.060 - Comprehensive sign plan.                                                                     Commented [CW115]: Most developers just do this
                                                                                                         anyway.
    When an application for the first permit (building permit or conditional use permit) on a parcel
of ground is submitted to the countymetro township, it shall be accompanied by a complete
comprehensive sign plan for all existing, proposed or future signs on the parcel of ground.


                                                                                             Page 309
19.82.070 - Building permit exceptions.

   Building permits are required for signs except for property signs, political signs and
nameplates conforming to the provisions of this chapter. (See Section 19.82.050(B).)



19.82.080 - Size computation.

A.   The following shall be used when calculating sign sizes: When more than one use occupies
     a lot, the frontage may be used to calculate the sign size for one total ground or projecting
     sign, not for each use. The total may then be divided between the uses. There may be any
     number of flat or wall signs, provided their total does not exceed the percentage of wall area
     coverage allowed.
B.    A property line which abuts a nonaccess freeway, road, street or right-of-way may not be
     used in computing sign area.



19.82.085 - Height of ground signs.

     The height of ground signs, except as otherwise specified in this chapter, shall be measured
from the grade at the property line of the yard in which the sign is located, but shall not exceed
the height allowed in the zone.



19.82.090 - Imprint of ownership required.

     The imprint of the sign owner and sign erector of all signs shall be in plain and public view.



19.82.100 - Off-premises sign requirements.

     Off-premises signs erected along the interstate or the primary highway system as defined by
the state shall conform with the provisions of the Utah Outdoor Advertising Act.



19.82.110 - Visibility at intersections.                                                                  Commented [CW116]: Safety issue.

A.    There shall be a minimum clearance of ten feet between the ground and any part of a
     projecting sign or ground sign, as measured from the grade of the intersecting streets and
     located within the clear view of an intersection, which is a triangular area formed by the street
     property lines and a line connecting them at points forty feet from the intersection of the street



                                                                                              Page 310
     lines. Any portion of a sign structure within the clear view of an intersection and nearer the
     ground than ten feet may not exceed ten inches in width, thickness or diameter.
B.    A service sign located within the clear view of an intersection shall not exceed two feet in
     height.



19.82.120 - Signs on public property.                                                                  Commented [CW117]: This can be a constant
                                                                                                       enforcement issue in some areas.
     No sign shall be located on publicly owned land or inside street rights-of-way except signs
required and erected by permission of an authorized public agency. Signs shall include, but not
be limited to, handbills, posters, advertisements or notices that are fastened, placed, posted,
painted or attached in any way upon any curbstone, lamppost, telephone pole, telegraph pole,
electric light or power pole, hydrant, bridge, tree, rock, sidewalk or street.



19.82.130 - Lighted signs.                                                                             Commented [CW118]: These are signed with lights that
                                                                                                       shine up or down on them, like many billboards, but not
A.    A lighted sign shall not be installed which permits the light to penetrate beyond the property   signs that are illuminated from the inside (which are defined
     in such a manner as to annoy or interfere with the use of adjacent properties.                    as “illuminated signs” rather than “lighted signs.”

B.    Such lights alleged to violate subsection A of this section by the adjacent property owners
     or development services division director shall be subject to a public hearing before the
     planning commission as to the validity of the alleged violation. If such light is determined to
     be in violation, the owner of the light shall take appropriate, corrective action as directed.



19.82.135 - Electronic message center requirements for on-premises signs.                              Commented [CW119]: This section was adopted in 2012
                                                                                                       after very long discussion and negotiation with the sign
A.   An electronic message center shall only display static images. An electronic message center       industry.
     shall not display scrolling text, video images, or scintillating images.
B.   The minimum image display duration shall be four seconds.
C.    The maximum image transition duration shall be three seconds. Transitions from one static
     image shall fade out and fade or dissolve in to the next static image without the use of
     flashing, animation, or movement.
D.    All electronic message centers shall be equipped with a sensor or other device that
     automatically determines the ambient illumination and must be programmed to automatically
     dim according to ambient light conditions. The nighttime illuminance of an electronic message
     center shall not increase ambient lighting conditions by more than three-tenths footcandles
     when measured perpendicular to the electronic message center face at a distance
     determined by the following formula:
     Measurement Distance (in feet) = The square root of [Area of electronic message center face
     in square feet) × 100]

E.    Where allowed as a conditional use, conditions may be imposed by the planning commission
     regarding hours of sign operation, sign height, sign size, and/or setbacks from property lines



                                                                                           Page 311
      to mitigate impacts on nearby residential properties, to protect critical viewsheds as
      established in the general plan, or to prevent potential traffic hazards.
F.    Electronic message center conditional use requirements, allowed sign types, and allowable
      sizes by zone are set forth in Table 19.82.135.
                            Table 19.82.135
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE CENTER CONDITIONAL USE REQUIREMENTS, ALLOWED SIGN
                 TYPES, AND ALLOWABLE SIZES BY ZONE

                                                                    Allowable EMC Size as a
           Allowed Sign      Conditional or Permitted Use
                                                                  Percentage of Total Allowable
               Types                  Approval
                                                                 Sign Size Per Table 19.82.190 1

             Monument                  Permitted                              50%

 MD-1,
                           Conditional use permit required if
 MD-3
              Ground       within 300 linear feet or less of a                50%
                            residence; otherwise, permitted

             Monument                  Permitted                              70%

     C-2                   Conditional use permit required if
              Ground       within 300 linear feet or less of a                50%
                           residence; otherwise, permitted.

             Monument                  Permitted                              80%

     C-3                   Conditional use permit required if
              Ground       within 300 linear feet or less of a                50%
                           residence; otherwise, permitted.

             Monument                  Permitted                             100%

     M-1                   Conditional use permit required if
              Ground       within 300 linear feet or less of a                75%
                           residence; otherwise, permitted.

             Monument                  Permitted                             100%

     M-2                   Conditional use permit required if
              Ground       within 300 linear feet or less of a                75%
                           residence; otherwise, permitted.




                                                                                         Page 312
All other
               None                        NA                                    NA
 zones




Table 19.82.135 footnotes:

     1.    The planning commission may approve an increase in the allowable EMC sign size
          through the conditional use process as described in Section 19.82.135E.



19.82.140 - Mobile sign.                                                                                Commented [CW120]: See “mobile sign” definition.

    One mobile sign may be used for each use for a period of sixty days following the issuance
of a permit to construct a permanent sign for that use. Upon inspection and approval of the
permanent sign, or upon expiration of the sixty-day period, whichever first occurs, the mobile sign
must be removed. Mobile signs may not employ animation, flashing lights or intermittent lights.



19.82.150 - Traffic hazard prohibited.                                                                  Commented [CW121]: Safety issue.

     Signs or other advertising structures shall not be erected at the intersection of any streets or
driveways in such manner as to obstruct free and clear vision, or at any location where by reason
of the position, shape or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of or be confused with any
authorized traffic sign, signal device, or make use of the words "Stop," "Drive-in," "Danger," or
any other words, phrases, symbols or characters in such manner as to interfere with, mislead or
confuse vehicle operators.



19.82.160 - Maintenance—Removal of sign.                                                                Commented [CW122]: This provision can be difficult to
                                                                                                        follow up on and enforce, and hasn’t been used very much
A.   All signs and advertising structures shall be maintained in good condition.                        in the past.

B.    Signs relating to a product no longer available for purchase, or to a business which has
     closed or moved, shall be removed or the advertising copy removed within thirty days of such
     unavailability, closure or relocation.
C.    Owners of signs or advertising copy not removed within the required thirty days shall be
     given written notice sent by certified mail. If not removed by the owner within the thirty-day
     period, the sign or copy will be removed by the countymetro township at the expense of the
     owner.



19.82.170 - Prohibited signs.



                                                                                            Page 313
    Signs not specifically allowed by this chapter are prohibited. Without restricting or limiting the
provisions of this section, the following signs are specifically prohibited: A-frame, snipe and
pedestal signs.



19.82.180 - Action to remove or abate violation.                                                         Commented [CW123]: As with 19.82.160 above, this
                                                                                                         provision is rarely used.
A.   The mayormetro township mayor or attorney shall be empowered to institute any appropriate
     action or proceeding in any case where any sign is erected, constructed, reconstructed,
     altered, repaired, converted or maintained, or in any case where any sign is used in violation
     of any county metro township ordinance, to accomplish the following purposes:
     1.    To prevent such unlawful erection, construction, reconstruction, alteration, repair,
          conversion, maintenance or use;
     2.   To restrain, to correct or abate such violation;
     3.   To abate and remove unsafe or dangerous signs. If an unsafe or dangerous sign is not
          repaired or made safe within ten working days after giving notice as provided in
          subsection B of this section, the building inspector or development services division
          director may at once abate and remove the sign, and the person having charge, control
          or benefit of any such sign shall pay to the county metro township costs incurred in such
          removal within thirty calendar days after written notice of the costs is mailed to such
          person.
B.    Notice by the county metro township shall mean written notice sent by certified mail to
     persons having charge or control or benefit of any sign found by the development services
     division director to be unsafe.



19.82.185 - Off-premises signs—Billboards.                                                               Commented [CW124]: This section was adopted in 2004
                                                                                                         as a “cap and replace” measure regarding billboards. In
A.    Purpose. This section provides for the reasonable regulation of off-premises signs with the        other words, the total number of billboards allowed in the
     intent of enhancing the aesthetics of existing and future billboards, mitigating negative           County was restricted to the number that existed or had
     impacts, promoting safety and protecting property values that further the goals and planning        been approved but not built as of the date of enactment.
                                                                                                         Now each Metro is tracked separately.
     policies of Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township.
B.    Cap on Number of Off-Premises Signs. The number of off-premises signs allowed in
     unincorporated the Salt Lake Countymetro township and established or future townships
     shall be limited to the number of off-premises signs that are existing as defined herein as of
     May 18, 2004January 1, 2017. This cap shall automatically decrease as off-premises signs
     are annexed into a municipal jurisdiction or removed and not relocated.
C.    Location. Off-premises signs shall be allowed in the C-1 zone as a conditional use. Off-
     premises signs shall be allowed in the C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zones as a permitted use.
D.    Size. Off-premises signs shall not exceed six hundred seventy-two square feet in the C-2,
     C-3, M-1 and M-2 zones. Off-premises signs located in a C-1 zone shall not exceed three
     hundred square feet in size.
E.   Height. The maximum height of an off-premises sign shall be thirty-five feet in a C-1 zone.
     The maximum height of an off-premises sign shall be forty-five feet above the grade level of



                                                                                             Page 314
     the road in the C-2, C-3, M-1 and M-2 zones or, when oriented for freeway viewing only and
     located within three hundred feet of the nearest freeway lane, twenty-five feet above freeway
     grade level or fifty feet overall, whichever is greater.
F.    Separation. The minimum distance between off-premises signs larger than three hundred
     square feet shall be five hundred lineal feet as measured along the same side of the street
     including intersections. The minimum distance between off-premises signs three hundred
     square feet or less in size shall be three hundred lineal feet as measured along the same
     side of the street including intersections. All off-premises signs must be at least one hundred
     fifty radial feet from any other off-premises sign.
G.    Setbacks. The minimum setback shall be eighteen inches for off-premises signs. The sign's
     front-yard setback shall be measured from the future right-of-way line (see Transportation
     Improvement Plan). The closest edge of an off-premises sign shall not project into any
     required setback area. The minimum setback between an off-premises sign and any
     residential zone boundary shall be one hundred fifty feet.
H.    Lighting. Lighting shall be confined to the sign face, and the lighting source shall not be
     directly visible.
I.   Design. Off-premises signs shall utilize either the "mono-pole" or the "bi-pole" design and
     shall be continually maintained structurally and on the copy face. The back of the sign and
     the structure behind the sign shall be painted a dark color. Tri-vision sign faces shall be
     permitted and, if illuminated, must be externally illuminated. Internally illuminated off-
     premises signs, electronic display (outdoor video advertising) and electronic message
     centers are only allowed adjacent to the interstate freeway system and limited to no more
     than one change to the copy face in a twenty-four hour period. Two-decked off-premises
     signs are prohibited in all zones.
J.   Credits for Removal. Prior to the removal of any off-premises sign, the owner shall obtain a
     permit for the demolition of the off-premises sign. Permits may be provided following
     application to the Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Division. The Salt
     Lake County Planning and Development Services Division shall by letter inform the affected
     community council chairmayorman and affected planning commission chairman that a permit
     for demolition of an off-premises sign has been issued. After any off-premises sign is
     demolished, the Salt Lake County Planning and Development Services Division shall create
     a "billboard bank account" for the sign owner. The account shall reflect credits for the off-
     premises sign square footage as well as the date of removal. Any off-premises sign credits
     not used within thirty-six months of their creation shall expire and be of no further value or
     use. An off-premises sign owner may sell or otherwise transfer off-premises signs and/or            Commented [CW125]: Billboard companies have a
     billboard bank account credits. The transfer of any billboard bank account credits does not         limited time frame in which to use the “credits” earned by
     extend their thirty-six-month life as provided in this section. Demolition of an off-premises       tearing down an existing sign to build a new one.
     sign that has two advertising faces shall receive billboard bank account credits for the square
     footage of each sign face.
K.   Relocation. The owner of an existing off-premises sign may remove an existing off-premises
     sign from any site to an approved location only after a permit for relocation is obtained upon
     substantiation of compliance with this chapter. Prior to approval of a permit for relocation, the
     sign owner (applicant) shall submit to the countymetro township a notarized affidavit signed
     by the property owner, a copy of the lease agreement or other document to be signed by the
     property owner, indicating at a minimum the duration of the lease and renewal provisions.
     Additionally, prior to approval of a permit for relocation, Salt Lake County Planning and
     Development Services Division shall by letter inform the affected community council



                                                                                             Page 315
     chairmayorman and affected planning commission chairman that application for an off-
     premises sign permit has been received. Off-premises signs moved to approved locations
     shall conform to all off-premises sign requirements of the new location. Off-premises signs
     moved from one location to another must be installed in the new approved location within the
     period allotted by the International Building Code (IBC). A new off-premises sign permit shall
     only be issued if the applicant has billboard bank account credits of a sufficient number of
     square feet. When the permit for construction of a new off-premises sign is issued, the Salt
     Lake County Planning and Development Services Division shall deduct from the sign owner's
     billboard bank account the square footage of the new off-premises sign. If the new off-
     premises sign uses less than the entire available square footage credits, any remaining
     square footage credits shall remain in the sign owner's billboard bank account.
L.   County Metro Township Council Review and Monitoring. The metro townshipcounty council
     shall, on a regular six-month schedule be updated at a regular public meeting to changes in
     status and effectiveness of the provisions related to off-premises signs in unincorporated Salt
     Lake Countythe metro township.
M.    Severability and Conflict. This section and its various parts are hereby declared to be
     severable if a court of competent jurisdiction declares any subsection, clause, provision or
     portion of this section invalid or unconstitutional. No court decision will affect the validity of
     either this section as a whole or any parts not declared invalid or unconstitutional by that
     decision. If any part of this section is found to be in conflict with any other provision of the
     countymetro township, the most restrictive or highest standard will apply, prevail and govern.



19.82.190 - On-premises signs allowed in zoning districts.                                                Commented [CW126]: This table shows what types of
                                                                                                          signs are allowed in which zones, and also specifies how tall,
     On-premises signs allowed, by zones, shall be as set out in Table 19.82.190.                         how close to property line, and how large signs can be.




                                          Table 19.82.190

                                  SIGNS ALLOWED, BY ZONES


ZONE          SIGN                 SIZE             HEIGHT      LOCATION              OTHER


                                                                                   Sign must be
                            32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.                               removed 6 months
                            ft. for each 10 ft. of                             from final building or
 (1) All                                                         On private       conditional use
           Construction     frontage over 30 to 12 ft. max.
 zones                                                            property        inspection that
                             a maximum of 96
                                 sq. ft. per lot                               allows occupancy or
                                                                                 when 100% of the
                                                                                    facilities are




                                                                                              Page 316
                                                  occupied, whichever
                                                      occurs first


Construction signs
    located on the
  development for
  subdivisions of 5
                                                     Signs must be
 lots or more, may
                                     On private    removed within 30
be 32 sq. ft. plus 2 12 ft. max.
                                      property    days after the last lot
   sq. ft. for each
                                                         is sold
additional lot over 5
  to a maximum of
128 sq. ft. total per
      subdivision


                                                    All signs must be
       Signs for                                     approved by the
  subdivisions of 5                               planning commission
lots or more and not                                for a period not to
    located on the                                   exceed one year
 development may                     On private        which may be
                       12 ft. max.
 be 32 sq. ft. plus 1                 property        renewed upon
  sq. ft. for each lot                            application received
      over 5 to a                                 at least 30 days prior
 maximum of 64 sq.                                    to the previous
      ft. per sign                                 approval expiration
                                                            date


Construction signs
   for multifamily                                  All signs must be
 developments of                                     approved by the
more than 20 units                                planning commission
and not located on                   On private     for a period not to
                       12 ft. max.
 the development                      property      exceed one year.
shall not exceed a                                   Approval may be
maximum of 10 ft.                                     renewed by the
 vertical and 20 ft.                              planning commission
     horizontal




                                                                Page 317
                                                        Attached to
Nameplate on       3 sq. ft. maximum
                                                           main
  premises              per use
                                                         structure


                                                         On private
                                                        property and Shall be removed 15
   Political      16 sq. ft. maximum       6 ft. max.     not closer   days following the
                                                        than 10 ft. to  final voting day
                                                         a driveway


 Property on-                                            On private
                   6 sq. ft. maximum       6 ft. max.
  premises                                                property


                                           3 ft. when
  Service on                                             On private
                   6 sq. ft. maximum          free-
  premises                                                property
                                           standing


                                                                        One sign per street
                                                                            frontage and
                                                                             landscaped
                                                                       appropriately for the
                                                                         site. Allowed with
 Monument on
                                                                           public or quasi-
premises (see
                 One per lot, 32 sq.                     On private     public buildings or
other zones for
                  ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for                property and uses, planned unit
    specific
                     every 10 ft. of                    set back 6 ft. developments, golf
 requirements                              6 ft. max.
                 frontage over 30 ft.                       from       courses, cemeteries,
     which
                to a maximum of 64                        property     dwelling groups, day
  supersede
                          sq. ft.                           lines          care/preschool
     these
                                                                          centers, or other
requirements)
                                                                       uses permitted in the
                                                                       zone or as approved
                                                                       in conjunction with a
                                                                         conditional permit
                                                                               approval


    Flat on-                                                            Allowed with public
premises (see                                           Attached to a     or quasi-public
other zones for    5% of a wall area                                    buildings, planned
                                                           building
    specific                                                            unit developments,
 requirements                                                              golf courses,


                                                                                    Page 318
             which                                                             cemeteries, dwelling
           supersede                                                              groups, or other
             these                                                             uses permitted in the
         requirements)                                                         zone or as approved
                                                                               in conjunction with a
                                                                                 conditional permit
                                                                                     approval

          Illumination may be built into or attached onto the signs listed above when:
                          (1) Lighting is allowed in the specific zone; or
(2) The development occupies more than 500 feet continuous frontage on the street the sign
will face and the sign is not closer than 200 feet to a property not allowed an illuminated sign;
 (3) Flat signs that are exposed to dwellings on adjacent properties shall not be illuminated
                      (property divided by public streets are not adjacent).


                                                                                Illumination may be
                                                                                built into or attached
                                                                                   onto a sign if the
(2) S-                    One per lot, 32 sq.
                                                                                    development
 1-G,                     ft., plus 1 sq. ft. for
           Ground or                              20 ft. max.                   occupies more than
 R-4-                         each 10 ft. of                        15 ft.
         projecting on-                            ground                        500 ft. continuous
 8.5,                     frontage over 30 ft.                     setback
           premises                                  sign                       frontage on a street
 R-M,                      on a street but not
                                                                               that the sign will face
RMH                       to exceed 64 sq. ft.
                                                                                unless exposed to a
                                                                               dwelling on adjacent
                                                                                        property


                                                                                  Signs that are
                                                                               exposed to dwellings
            Flat on-                                             Attached to a
                          15% of a wall area                                       on adjacent
           premises                                                 building
                                                                                properties shall not
                                                                                  be illuminated


          Window on-      8 sq. ft. maximum                                     Signs shall not be
           premises            per use                                             illuminated


                          One per lot, 32 sq.                      18-inch
         Monument on-                                                           A monument sign
                           ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for   6 ft. max.     minimum
           premises                                                            can only be utilized if
                              every 10 ft. of                      setback         no ground or
                          frontage over 30 to




                                                                                             Page 319
                            a maximum of 64                                    projecting sign is
                                 sq. ft.                                             used


                                                                             Illumination may be
                                                                             built into or attached
                                                                                 to signs unless
                            One per lot, 48 sq.                                   exposed to a
(3) C-                      ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for                           dwelling on adjacent
           Ground or
 1, C-                          each 4 ft. of                       15 ft.        property or a
         projecting on-                              25 ft. max.
 1-L,                        frontage over 30,                     setback      residential zone
           premises
 C-V                        but not to exceed                                 boundary in which
                                  128 sq. ft.                                    case it may be
                                                                                   allowed with
                                                                                 conditional use
                                                                                     approval


          Window on-        12 sq. ft. maximum
           premises              per use


                                                                              Illumination may be
                                                                             built into or attached
                                                                                  to signs unless
                                                                                   exposed to a
                                                                             dwelling on adjacent
                                                                                   property or a
                                                                                 residential zone
         Flat or wall on-
                            15% of a wall area                                 boundary in which
            premises
                                                                                  case it may be
                                                                                    allowed with
                                                                                  conditional use
                                                                                approval. A flat or
                                                                               wall sign may only
                                                                             be used if an awning
                                                                                 sign is not used


         Temporary on-                                                           See Section
           premises                                                               19.82.140




                                                                                           Page 320
                         One per lot, 32 sq.
                                                                           A monument sign
                          ft. plus 1 sq. ft. for
                                                                18-inch   can only be utilized if
        Monument on-          every 4 ft. of
                                                   6 ft. max.   minimum       no ground or
          premises       frontage over 30 to
                                                                setback     projecting sign is
                          a maximum of 64
                                                                                  used
                                  sq. ft.


                                                            8 ft.     Attached to building.
                        25% of a wall area
                                            8 ft. min.   maximum      Primary graphics on
                          may be covered
                                            above the    projection face or street side of
         Awning on-     with an awning, and
                                            ground 0     from bldg. structure. An awning
          premises       50% of an awning
                                             ft. above   May be on     sign may only be
                          may be covered
                                            bldg. wall three walls of used if a flat or wall
                            with graphics
                                                         a building     sign is not used


All regulated signs in C-V zones located in canyon areas of the countymetro township require
                                   conditional use approval.


                       48 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                        ft. for each foot of
                      frontage over 30 on
                             a street to a                             Illumination may be
                      maximum of 256 sq.                               built into or attached
                      ft. Property abutting                                to signs unless
                        a freeway with no                                   exposed to a
                           frontage on a                               dwelling on adjacent
                         dedicated street                                   property or a
                       may have one sign                    18-inch
                                                                          residential zone
                                                         setback, 1
       C-2 Ground or as a conditional use                               boundary in which
(4) C-                                                  sign   per 300
       projecting on- located within 30 ft. 30 ft. max.                    case it may be
2, C-3                of the freeway not to              ft. frontage
         premises                                                            allowed with
                       exceed 256 sq. ft.                   or part
                                                                           conditional use
                      and the height shall                  thereof
                                                                        approval. Rotation
                         not exceed 25 ft.                              and subdued light
                          above freeway                                   change may be
                        grade. A property                                    allowed with
                       having frontage on                                  conditional use
                       a dedicated street                                     approval.
                          which connects
                       directly to an on or
                      off ramp of I-15 and
                        is within 600 ft. of


                                                                                        Page 321
                 the main traveled
                  way of I-15 may
                have one sign up to
                 60 ft. high, but not
                  to exceed 25 ft.
                   above freeway
                grade level and 400
                         sq. ft.


                48 sq. ft. plus 11/2
                sq. ft. for each foot
                of frontage over 30
                   on a street to a
               maximum of 300 sq.
               ft. Property abutting
                 a freeway with no
                     frontage on a
                                                                Illumination may be
                  dedicated street
                                                                built into or attached
                may have one sign
                                                                    to signs unless
               as a conditional use
                                                                     exposed to a
               located within 30 ft.
                                                                dwelling on adjacent
               of the freeway not to
                                                                     property or a
                exceed 300 sq. ft.                 No setback
                                                                   residential zone
               and the height shall                required, 1
C-3 Ground or                                                    boundary in which
                  not exceed 25 ft.               sign per 300
projecting on-                        30 ft. max.                   case it may be
                    above freeway                  ft. frontage
  premises                                                            allowed with
                 grade. A property                    or part
                                                                    conditional use
                having frontage on                    thereof
                                                                 approval. Rotation
                a dedicated street
                                                                 and subdued light
                   which connects
                                                                   change may be
                directly to an on or
                                                                      allowed with
               off ramp of I-15 and
                                                                    conditional use
                 is within 600 ft. of
                                                                       approval.
                 the main traveled
                  way of I-15 may
               have one sign up to
                60 ft. high, but not
                   to exceed 25 ft.
                    above freeway
               grade level and 400
                         sq. ft.




                                                                              Page 322
                                                      Balloon signs are
  Balloon on-
                                                    subject to conditional
   premises
                                                        use approval


                                                        Roof sign may
                                                        substitute for a
                                                    ground or projecting
                                                    sign but is subject to
                                                        conditional use
                                                         approval. The
                                     10 ft.
   Roof on-      Same as ground or                  planning commission
                                   above roof
   premises        projecting sign                   may deny a sign or
                                     max.
                                                     set more restrictive
                                                      conditions. Signs
                                                     shall be installed so
                                                       that the support
                                                        structure is not
                                                             visible


 Window on-      16 sq. ft. maximum
  premises            per use


                                                     Maximum of 1 sign
                                                       per street front,
                                                          permanently
                                                       anchored to the
                                                    ground, and subject
                                                      to conditional use
                                       Maximum             approval.
                                       ht. equals   Illumination may be
                  1 sq. ft. for each
  Promotional                           the sign    built into or attached
                linear ft. of frontage
sign boards on-                         setback,        to signs unless
                to a maximum of 20
   premises                              but not         exposed to a
                   sq. ft. per sign
                                       more than    dwelling on adjacent
                                          10 ft.         property or a
                                                       residential zone
                                                     boundary in which
                                                        case it may be
                                                          allowed with
                                                        conditional use
                                                            approval




                                                                  Page 323
                                                                          Illumination may be
                                                                         built into or attached
                                                                              to signs unless
                                                                               exposed to a
                                                                         dwelling on adjacent
                                                                               property or a
                                                                             residential zone
Flat or wall on-
                   20% of a wall area                                      boundary in which
   premises
                                                                              case it may be
                                                                                allowed with
                                                                              conditional use
                                                                            approval. A flat or
                                                                           wall sign may only
                                                                         be used if an awning
                                                                             sign is not used


Temporary on-                                                                See Section
  premises                                                                    19.82.140


                                                              18-inch
                   32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                                                            minimum
                    ft. for every 4 ft. of                               A monument sign
                                                           setback, 1
Monument on-       frontage over 30 on                                  can be utilized in lieu
                                             6 ft. max.   sign per 300
  premises               a street to a                                     of a ground or
                                                           ft. frontage
                   maximum of 64 sq.                                       projecting sign
                                                              or part
                               ft.
                                                              thereof


                                                       8 ft.
                                                    maximum
                                                                 Attached to building.
                   25% of a wall area               projection
                                       8 ft. min.                Primary graphics on
                     may be covered                 from bldg.
                                       above the                 face or street side of
 Awning on-        with an awning, and             Must be on
                                       ground 0                  structure. An awning
  premises          50% of an awning                  private
                                        ft. above                  sign may only be
                     may be covered                  property.
                                       bldg. wall                 used if a flat or wall
                       with graphics                May be on
                                                                    sign is not used
                                                  three walls of
                                                    a building




                                                                                       Page 324
                           48 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                            ft. for each foot of
                          frontage over 30 on
                                 a street to a
                          maximum of 256 sq.
                          ft. A property having
                                frontage on a
                             dedicated street                      15 ft.
                              which connects                  setback, 1
           Ground or                                                       Illumination may be
(5) M-                     directly to an on or    35. ft.   sign per 300
         projecting on-                                                    built into or attached
1, M-2                    off ramp of I-15 and     max.       ft. frontage
           premises                                                                to sign.
                            is within 600 ft. of                 or part
                            the main traveled                    thereof
                             way of I-15 may
                          have one sign up to
                            60 ft. high, but not
                              to exceed 25 ft.
                               above freeway
                          grade level and 400
                                    sq. ft.


                                                                             Balloon signs are
          Balloon on-
                                                                           subject to conditional
           premises
                                                                               use approval


                                                                               Roof sign may
                                                                               substitute for a
                                                                           ground or projecting
                                                                           sign but is subject to
                                                                               conditional use
                                                                                approval. The
                                              10 ft.
           Roof on-       Same as ground or                                planning commission
                                            above roof
           premises         projecting sign                                 may deny a sign or
                                              max.
                                                                            set more restrictive
                                                                             conditions. Signs
                                                                            shall be installed so
                                                                              that the support
                                                                               structure is not
                                                                                    visible




                                                                                         Page 325
          Window on-        16. sq. ft. maximum
           premises               per use


                                                                                   A flat or wall sign
         Flat or wall on-                                                         may only be used if
                            20% of a wall area
            premises                                                             an awning sign is not
                                                                                          used


         Temporary on-                                                                See Section
           premises                                                                    19.82.140


                                                                       18-inch
                            32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                                                                     minimum
                             ft. for every 4 ft. of                               A monument sign
                                                                    setback, 1
         Monument on-       frontage over 30 on                                  can be utilized in lieu
                                                      6 ft. max.   sign per 300
           premises               a street to a                                     of a ground or
                                                                    ft. frontage
                            maximum of 64 sq.                                       projecting sign
                                                                       or part
                                        ft.
                                                                       thereof


                                                                8 ft.     Attached to building.
                            25% of a wall area
                                                8 ft. min.   maximum      Primary graphics on
                              may be covered
                                                above the    projection face or street side of
          Awning on-        with an awning, and
                                                ground 0     from bldg. structure. An awning
           premises          50% of an awning
                                                 ft. above   May be on     sign may only be
                              may be covered
                                                bldg. wall three walls of used if a flat or wall
                                with graphics
                                                             a building     sign is not used


           Same as
(6) F-                                                                             All regulated signs
        Section (3) of
R, F-                                                                              require conditional
       this table for C-
  M                                                                                   use approval
          1 and CV


                                                                                       Illumination
                                                                                  excluding luminous
 (7)                                                                               tubes may be built
MD-1,        Flat on-                                                              into or attached to
                             5% of a wall area
(7 (7)      premises                                                              signs. Sign design
MD-3                                                                                 shall reflect the
                                                                                  architectural design
                                                                                     scheme of the



                                                                                                Page 326
                                                                                project. All signs
                                                                               require conditional
                                                                                  use approval


                                                                                    Illumination
                                                                               excluding luminous
                                                                   18 inch      tubes may be built
                         32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                                                                 minimum        into or attached to
                         ft. for every 4 ft. of
                                                                setback, 1     signs. Sign design
         Monument on-   frontage over 30 on
                                                  6 ft. max.   sign per 300       shall reflect the
           premises           a street to a
                                                                ft. frontage   architectural design
                        maximum of 64 sq.
                                                                   or part        scheme of the
                                    ft.
                                                                   thereof       project. All signs
                                                                               require conditional
                                                                                   use approval


                                                                                    Illumination
                                                                               excluding exposed
                                                                                 neon or lighted
                                                                     25 ft.    accent stripes may
                        32 sq. ft. plus 1 sq.
                                                                 minimum          be built into or
                         ft. for every 4 ft. of
                                                                setback, 1      attached to signs.
(8) O-   Monument on-   frontage over 30 on
                                                  6 ft. max.   sign per 300     Sign design shall
 R-D       premises           a street to a
                                                                ft. frontage         reflect the
                        maximum of 64 sq.
                                                                   or part     architectural design
                                    ft.
                                                                   thereof        scheme of the
                                                                                project. All signs
                                                                               require conditional
                                                                                   use approval


                                                                          Illumination
                                                                      excluding exposed
                                             Not higher                 neon or lighted
                                             than 15 ft. Attached to accent stripes may
                                             above the the wall of a     be built into or
            Flat on-     5% of a wall area                             attached to signs.
                                              finished    building
           premises     which faces a street                             Signs that are
                                              grade of which faces
                                                 the       a street  exposed to dwellings
                                              building                    on adjacent
                                                                      properties shall not
                                                                     be illuminated. Sign
                                                                      design shall reflect


                                                                                            Page 327
                                                                                     the architectural
                                                                                    design scheme of
                                                                                  the project. All signs
                                                                                   require conditional
                                                                                       use approval




Chapter 19.83 - WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES                                                       Commented [CW127]: This chapter was designed for
                                                                                                             cellular and mobile phone towers and antennas.



19.83.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of this chapter is to establish general requirements for the siting of wireless
telecommunications facilities. The intent of this chapter is to:
    A.    Encourage the location of facilities in nonresidential areas;
    B.    Minimize the total number of monopole facilities throughout the community;
    C.    Encourage the joint use of new and existing communication sites;
    D.    Encourage providers of facilities to locate them where the adverse impact on the
         community is minimal;
    E.    Encourage providers of facilities to use innovative design to minimize adverse visual
         impact;
    F.    Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunication services to provide such
         services to the community quickly, effectively, and efficiently.



19.83.020 - Definitions.

    As used in this chapter:
     "Antenna" means a transmitting or receiving device used in telecommunications that radiates
or captures radio signals.
    "Lattice tower" means a self-supporting multiple sided, open steel frame structure used to
support telecommunications equipment.
     "Monopole facility" means an antenna or series of individual antennas mounted on a single
cylindrical pole. Also includes associated equipment. For the purposes of this chapter, if a facility
does not fit the definition of a roof or wall mounted facility it shall be considered a monopole facility.   Commented [CW128]: This is a catch-all to cover the
                                                                                                             various types of “unique” applications that may come in.
     "Roof mounted facility" means an antenna or series of individual antennas mounted on a flat
or pitched roof, mechanical room or penthouse of a building or structure. Also includes associated
equipment.




                                                                                                Page 328
     "Stealth facility" means a wall, roof, or monopole facility which is disguised as another object
or otherwise concealed from view. Examples of stealth facilities include, but are not limited to,
trees, synthetic rocks, or architectural elements such as dormers, steeples, and chimneys.
     "Wall mounted facility" means an antenna or series of individual antennas mounted against
the vertical wall of a building or structure. Also includes associated equipment.
    "Wireless telecommunications facility" means an unmanned structure which consists of
equipment used primarily for the transmission, reception or transfer of voice or data through radio
wave or wireless transmissions. Such sites typically require the construction of transmission
support structures to which antenna equipment is attached.



19.83.030 - Applicability.

     The requirements of this chapter apply to both commercial and private wireless
telecommunications services such as "cellular" or "PCS" (personal communications services)
communications and paging systems. All facilities shall comply with the following regulations and
all other ordinances of the countymetro township and any pertinent regulations of the Federal
Communications Commission and the Federal Aviation Administration.



19.83.040 - General plan required.                                                                      Commented [CW129]: This was important when the
                                                                                                        ordinance was first adopted because the technology was
     A site location general plan shall be submitted by each company desiring placement of              still relatively new, and the planning commission and
wireless telecommunication facilities. The general plan shall be submitted to the planning              County staff wanted to get a feeling for how many of these
commission and development services division prior to processing any permits for permitted or           things might be built. Since most networks are in place
                                                                                                        now, and people have grown accustomed to the towers,
conditional use locations. The general plan shall include inventory of existing and anticipated sites   this section has not been looked at as much.
for the unincorporated countymetro township and within one-half mile of the unincorporated
countymetro township boundary. The plan shall indicate area coverage, if known, location,
antenna height above existing grade, and antenna type for each site and be updated upon request
from the planning commission. Every general plan shall be considered proprietary information
and not be part of the public record.



19.83.050 - Allowable uses.

    The uses specified in Table 19.83.050 are allowed provided that they comply with all
requirements of this chapter.




                                         TABLE 19.83.050

    P—Permitted Use                       C—Conditional Use                      N- Not allowed




                                                                                            Page 329
         Zones             Wall Mount       Roof Mount      Monopole        Lattice Tower

          F-1                P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

        All FMs              P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

         All FRs             P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

        All R-1s             P3, CS           P3, CS          C3, CS              N

        All R-2s             P3, CS           P3, CS          C3, CS              N

        R-4-8.5              P3, CS           P3, CS          C3, CS              N

         S-1-G               P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

          R-M                   P                P              C                 N

         O-R-D                  P                P              C                 N

          RMH                   N                N              N                 N

         All As              P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

         All FAs             P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

        All MDs              P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

      C-1, C-2, C-3             P                P              C                 N

          C-V                P1, C2           P1, C2            C                 N

         All Ms                 P                P            P4, C               N




1—Permitted use only on nonresidential buildings.
2—Conditional use on residential buildings.
3—Allowed only in conjunction with public or quasi-public uses (see Sections 19.04.440 and
19.04.445).
4—Permitted use if not within 300 feet of a residential zone boundary.



                                                                                      Page 330
S—Stealth facilities are conditional uses and not required to be located with public or quasi-          Commented [CW130]: The ordinance encourages using
public uses.                                                                                            stealth facilities (cell sites disguised as something else) by
                                                                                                        allowing them in areas where towers would otherwise not
19.83.060 - Facility types and standards.                                                               be allowed.

    Wireless telecommunications facilities are characterized by the type and location of the
antenna structure. There are four general types of antenna structures: wall mounted; roof
mounted; monopoles; and lattice towers. Standards for the installation of each type of antenna
are as follows:
    A.   Wall Mounted Antenna. The following provisions apply to wall mounted antennas: (see
         Figure 1)
         1.    Wall mounted antennas shall not extend above the wall line of the building or
              structure or extend more than four feet horizontally from the face of the building or
              structure.
         2.    Antennas, equipment and the supporting structure shall be painted to match the
              color of the building or structure or the background against which they are most
              commonly seen. Antennas and the supporting structures on buildings should be
              architecturally compatible with the building.
         3.   Antennas mounted directly on existing parapet walls, penthouses, or mechanical
              equipment rooms, with no portion of the antenna extending above the roofline of
              such structures, shall be considered a wall mounted antenna.
         4.    Stealth wall mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary from           Commented [CW131]: Again, stealth facilities are
              the provisions of this section as determined by development services for permitted        encouraged by being given some latitude with regard to
              uses and the planning commission for conditional uses. Stealth wall mounted               height, size, etc.
              antennas are not required to be located with public or quasi-public uses in all R-l, R-
              2, and R-4-8.5 zones (see Table 19.83.050).
    B.   Roof Mounted Antenna. The following provisions apply to roof mounted antennas: (see            Commented [CW132]: We generally see more wall
         Figures 2 and 3)                                                                               mount than roof mount facilities.

         1.    Roof mounted antennas shall be allowed on top of existing penthouses or
              mechanical equipment rooms provided the antennas and antenna mounting
              structures shall not extend more than eight feet above the existing roofline of the
              penthouse or mechanical equipment room.
         2.   For antennas not mounted on a penthouse or mechanical equipment room and on
              a flat roof:
              a.   Setback. The antennas shall be mounted at least five feet from the exterior wall
                   or parapet wall of a building or structure.
              b.   Height. The height shall be measured from the top of the antenna to the roofline
                   of the building or structure, or to the top of the parapet wall if a parapet wall
                   exists. For antennas mounted between five and fourteen feet from the exterior
                   wall or parapet wall, the maximum height of the antenna is equal to the distance
                   the antenna is set back from the exterior wall or parapet wall. For antennas
                   setback more than fourteen feet the maximum height shall be fourteen feet.
                   Antennas extending more than nineteen feet above the roofline require
                   conditional use approval (see Figure 2).




                                                                                            Page 331
              c.   Roof-mounted antennas extending above the roofline of any penthouse or
                   mechanical equipment room require conditional use approval.
         3.   Roof mounted antennas on a pitched roof shall be allowed provided the antennas
              and antenna support structures do not extend higher than the peak of the roof
              measured by a horizontal line from the peak extending over the roof (see Figure 3).
         4.    Roof mounted antennas shall be constructed and/or colored to match the
              surroundings in which they are located.
         5.    Stealth roof mounted antennas are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary from
              the provisions of this section as determined by development services division for
              permitted uses and the planning commission for conditional uses. Stealth roof
              mounted antennas are not required to be located with public or quasi-public uses in
              all R-1, R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones (see Table 19.83.050).
    C.   Monopole. The following provisions apply to monopoles:
         1.    The height limit for monopoles is sixty feet except the planning commission may
              allow a monopole up to eighty feet in the C-2, C-3, M-1, and M-2 zones if it finds: (1)
              that the monopole will blend in with surrounding structures, poles, or trees and is
              compatible with surrounding uses, (2) the monopole will be available for co-location
              with other companies, and (3) the monopole will be setback at least three hundred
              feet from any residential zone boundary. The height shall be measured from the top
              of the structure including antennas, to the original grade directly adjacent to the
              monopole.
         2.    In all R-1, R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones, monopoles will only be allowed in conjunction
              with an existing public or quasi-public use. Public and quasi-public uses, as defined
              in Sections 19.04.440 and 19.04.450, include but are not limited to churches,
              schools, utilities, and parks.
         3.   No monopoles shall be allowed in the front yard setback of any lot.
         4.   Monopoles shall be setback from any residential structure a distance equal to its
              height.
         5.   Stealth monopole facilities are encouraged and shall be allowed to vary from the
              provisions of this section as determined by development services division for
              permitted uses and the planning commission for conditional uses. Stealth
              monopoles are not required to be located with public or quasi-public uses in all R-1,
              R-2, and R-4-8.5 zones (see Table 19.83.050).
    D.   Lattice Tower. Lattice towers are not allowed.



19.83.070 - Color.

     Monopoles, antennas, and any associated buildings or equipment shall be painted to blend
with the surroundings which they are most commonly seen. The color shall be determined on a
case-by-case basis by the planning commission for conditional uses and development services
division for permitted uses. Within six months after the facility has been constructed, the planning
commission or the development services division may require the color be changed if it is               Commented [CW133]: This provision can be subjective,
determined that the original color does not blend with the surroundings.                                and for the most part is used to ensure that the poles are
                                                                                                        painted a dull, neutral color.


                                                                                            Page 332
19.83.080 - Sites in the foothills and canyons.

    For the purpose of this chapter the foothills and canyons are defined as the areas shown on
the maps in the document entitled "Salt LakeCopperton CountyMetro township Foothill and
Canyon Development Standards."
    A.    Any grading for telecommunication facilities, including access roads and trenching for
         utilities, shall comply with the Uniform Building Code. Telecommunication facilities in the
         foothills and canyons shall comply with the FR zone requirements for grading (Section
         19.12.100), natural vegetation (Section 19.12.110) and utilities (Section 19.12.120).
         Everything possible should be done to minimize disturbance of the natural environment.
    B.    A computer-generated visual simulation of the proposed structures is required for all           Commented [CW134]: This is typical for most applicants
         sites in the foothills and canyons. The simulation shall show all structures including but       to provide on all applications, but is especially helpful with
         not limited to monopoles, antennas, and equipment buildings.                                     canyon properties.

    C.    Everything possible should be done to minimize disturbance of the visual environment.
         Site placement and color should be carefully considered to blend in with the
         surroundings.
    D.    Continuous outside lighting is prohibited unless required by the FAA for the monopole.



19.83.090 - Additional requirements.

    The following shall be considered by the planning commission for conditional uses:
    A.    Compatibility of the proposed structure with the height and mass of existing buildings
         and utility structures.
    B.    Location of the antenna on other existing structures in the same vicinity such as other
         monopoles, buildings, water towers, utility poles, athletic field lights, parking lot lights,
         etc. where possible without significantly impacting antenna transmission or reception.
    C.     Location of the antenna in relation to existing vegetation, topography including ridge
         lines, and buildings to obtain the best visual screening.
    D.    Spacing between monopoles which creates detrimental impacts to adjoining properties.
    E.   Installation of, but not limited to, curb, gutter, sidewalk, landscaping, and fencing as per
         Sections 19.76.210 and 19.84.050.



19.83.100 - Accessory buildings.

    Accessory buildings to antenna structures must comply with the required setback, height and
landscaping requirements of the zoning district in which they are located. All utility lines on the lot
leading to the accessory building and antenna structure shall be underground.




                                                                                              Page 333
19.83.110 - Non-maintained or abandoned facilities.                                                  Commented [CW135]: This provision is difficult to
                                                                                                     enforce for two reasons: first, it is difficult to know when a
      The building official may require each non-maintained or abandoned telecommunications          site is no longer in use, and second, bonds posted by law
facility to be removed from the building or premise when such a facility has not been repaired or    only have a two-year shelf life, and this provision is designed
put into use by the owner or agent within ninety calendar days after notice of non-maintenance or    for long-term guarantee.
abandonment is given to the owner or agent. The applicant shall post a site specific bond when
a permit is issued to guarantee removal of the facility and site restoration. The type of bond and
amount shall be determined upon review by countymetro township staff. No bond shall be
required for roof or wall mounted facilities.



19.83.120 - Building permit required.

     A building permit from the development services division is required for all wireless
telecommunication facilities including, but not limited to, monopoles, and roof and wall mounted
antennas.



19.83.130 - Illustrations.

     The illustrations, Figures 1, 2, and 3, are intended to demonstrate graphically the intent of
this chapter.




                                                                                         Page 334
Page 335
Page 336
Page 337
Chapter 19.84 - CONDITIONAL USES                                                                         Commented [CW136]: This entire chapter is based on
                                                                                                         the specific requirements of the State Land Use and
                                                                                                         Development Management Act.

19.84.010 - Purpose.

     The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a reasonable application, review, and approval
process for land uses that are specified as "conditional," such that proposed new land uses meet
countymetro township standards and are properly integrated into the community and that those
that appear to violate countymetro township standards are effectively mitigated or prohibited.
Conditional uses shall be approved on a case-by-case basis provided the applicant adequately
demonstrates that negative impacts of the use can be mitigated through the imposition of
reasonable conditions of approval.



19.84.020 - Conditional use permit required when.

    A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional uses in the district
regulations or elsewhere in this title.



19.84.030 - Application requirements—Fee.                                                                Commented [CW137]: State law places an emphasis on
                                                                                                         “complete” applications and obligates the municipality to
   Only when the following elements are satisfied is a conditional use application deemed                render decisions in a timely manner once a “complete”
complete:                                                                                                application has been received.

     A.   Application for a conditional use permit shall be made by the property owner or certified
          agent thereof in writing upon the form(s) designated by the director or director's
          designee.
     B.   Accompanying Documents. Detailed site plans and specifications drawn to scale, unless
          waived by the director or director's designee, shall be submitted with the application.
     C.    Fee. The initial application fee for any conditional use permit, as provided for in Section
          3.52.040 of this code, shall be paid. The payment of a partial application fee, or the
          submittal of plans for a pre-submittal review, does not constitute a complete application.



19.84.040 - Application review.                                                                          Commented [CW138]: This section is intended to
                                                                                                         provide an outline of the steps involved, but not an
A.    The director or the director's designee shall administer an application review procedure in        exhaustive list of every agency to which an application may
     which the proposed use and the proposed site development plan are evaluated for                     be referred.
     compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes and for anticipated detrimental effects.
B.   The application review procedure shall contain the following components:
     1.   Referral of the application to all affected entities;
     2.   A review of the proposed site plan for compliance with applicable sections of the zoning
          ordinance;



                                                                                             Page 338
     3.   A review of the proposed use and site plan to ascertain potential negative impacts and
          whether reasonable conditions can be imposed to mitigate those impacts.
C.   The application review procedure may include the following:
     1.   Referral of the application to government or regulating entities for recommendations;
     2.   A pre-application meeting, in which preliminary site plans are reviewed and discussed
          prior to finished plans being submitted for review;
     3.   An on-site review of the proposal by the director, director's designee or staff;
     4.    A requirement that the applicant submit impact studies or other technical studies
          regarding grading, drainage, traffic, geologic hazards, etc.
D.     The director, director's designee or staff shall present a review, summary and
     recommendation to the planning commission after having provided the applicant with a copy
     as required by state law. The recommendation shall remain part of the public record.



19.84.050 - Approval/denial authority.                                                                  Commented [CW139]: This section specifies that the
                                                                                                        planning commission is the approval authority for
    The planning commission has the authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions              conditional uses, and delegates to the planning staff the
conditional use applications.                                                                           responsibility to ensure that the conditions of approval are
                                                                                                        incorporated into the final site plan and conditional use
     A.   Planning Commission Approval.                                                                 permit letter.
          1.   The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each application during
               a public meeting.
          2.    The planning commission's decision shall be based on information presented
               through the public meeting process, including: the materials submitted by the
               applicant, the recommendation of the director or director's designee, and input from
               interested parties and affected entities.
          3.    If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a final
               approval letter upon satisfaction of the planning commission's conditions of
               approval.
          4.   If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months of the
               planning commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A twelve-month
               extension may be granted upon the payment of an additional filing fee equal to the
               original filing fee.
          5.    A planning commission decision shall be made on a complete conditional use
               application within a reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days. The planning
               commission is authorized to review and take action on an application as outlined in
               Section 19.84.040 after having notified the applicant of the meeting date.
          6.    Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by the
               planning commission, the director or director's designee to resolve conflicts with the
               standards in Section 19.84.060 (above) may result in an application being denied.
     B.   Decision. Each conditional use application shall be:                                          Commented [CW140]: These three possible courses of
                                                                                                        action match those found in the state code.




                                                                                             Page 339
          1.    Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a property
               is proposed for development, complies with the standards for approval outlined in
               Section 19.84.060; or
          2.    Approved with conditions if the anticipated detrimental effects of the use, including
               the manner and design in which the property is proposed for development, can be
               mitigated with the imposition of reasonable conditions to bring about compliance
               with the standards outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
          3.   Denied if the anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use cannot be mitigated
               with the imposition of reasonable conditions of approval to bring about compliance
               with the standards outlined in Section 19.84.060.



19.84.060 - Standards for approval.                                                                        Commented [CW141]: These standards were put in place
                                                                                                           at the time the state law was changed to require all
    Prior to approval, all conditional uses and accompanying site development plans must be                conditions of approval be based on standards found in the
found to conform to the following standards:                                                               ordinance. In the ideal ordinance, these “general”
                                                                                                           standards would be replaced with a more robust set of
     A.    The proposed site development plan shall comply with all applicable provisions of the           standards upon which conditions of approval could be
          zoning ordinance, including parking, building setbacks, and building height.                     based.

     B.   The proposed use and site development plan shall comply with all other applicable laws
          and ordinances.
     C.    The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic hazard
          due to poor site design or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby road system
          which exceed the amounts called for under the countymetro township transportation
          master plan.
     D.     The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to the
          safety of persons who will work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose a serious
          threat to the safety of residents or properties in the vicinity by failure to adequately
          address the following issues: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil or slope conditions,
          liquifaction potential, site grading/topography, storm drainage/flood control, high ground
          water, environmental health hazards, or wetlands.
     E.    The proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact properties in
          the vicinity of the site through lack of compatibility with nearby buildings in terms of size,
          scale, height, or noncompliance with community general plan standards.



19.84.075 - Graffiti preventative materials or design.                                                     Commented [CW142]: This is rarely specifically stated in
                                                                                                           most planning commission approvals because it is generally
A.    Whenever the planning commission determines that there is a reasonable likelihood that               a given that builders design with graffiti prevention in mind.
     graffiti will be placed on the surfaces of proposed improvements it shall require, as part of the
     conditional use approval, that the applicant apply an anti-graffiti material, approved by the
     development services division, to each of the surfaces to be constructed. The anti-graffiti
     material shall be used on surfaces from ground level to a height of nine feet. The planning
     commission may approve dense planting or appropriate design measures in place of anti-
     graffiti materials.



                                                                                              Page 340
B.    Whenever the planning commission becomes aware of graffiti having been placed on any
     surfaces constructed as part of development approved as a conditional use, it may require
     that the applicant or his/her successor in interest apply an anti-graffiti material to such
     surfaces where no such material was previously required.



19.84.080 - Appeals.                                                                                   Commented [CW143]: Establishes the appeal authority
                                                                                                       and process.
     Any adversely affected person shall have the right to appeal to the land use hearing officer
any decision rendered by the planning commission, the director or director's designee by filing in
writing, stating the reasons for the appeal with the land use hearing officer, within ten days
following the date upon which the decision is made. Appeals to the land use hearing officer shall
comply with the following procedures:
     A.    Upon scheduling a hearing date, the land use hearing officer shall notify the planning
          commission coordinator at least two weeks prior to the hearing to allow preparation of
          the record.
     B.    The planning commission coordinator shall prepare a copy of the record of the
          proceedings and decision being appealed for presentation to the land use hearing officer.
     C.    The hearing officer shall review the record, and may not accept or consider any evidence
          outside the record unless the evidence was offered to and was excluded by the planning
          commission, the director or director's designee and the hearing officer determines that it
          was improperly excluded.                                                                     Commented [CW144]: It is not the hearing officer’s job
                                                                                                       to hold another conditional use hearing, but rather to
     D.    The land use hearing officer shall review the planning commission's or the development      review the record to see if the planning commission acted
          services division's actions to determine whether the decision was arbitrary, capricious,     appropriately or erred.
          or illegal.
     E.   The filing of an appeal does not automatically stay the decision; however, the land use
          hearing officer has the authority to stay the decision while the appeal is pending.
     F.    After review of the record and written and oral argument on both sides, the hearing
          officer may affirm, reverse, alter, or remand to the planning commission, the director or
          director's designee for further review and consideration the action taken by the planning
          commission, the director or director's designee.



19.84.095 - Preliminary and final approval of conditional use applications.                            Commented [CW145]: This clarifies a second time the
                                                                                                       role of the planning commission in approving the land use
A.    Unless otherwise designated, a decision approving a conditional use application shall be a       and the role of planning staff finalizing that approval by
     preliminary approval of the application.                                                          assuring compliance.

B.    Except as specified in subsection C of this section, the planning and development services
     director is authorized to grant final approval of conditional use applications after all of the
     conditions and requirements of the preliminary approval which are necessary for the final
     approval have been met. Final approval of a conditional use application shall be in the form
     of a letter to the applicant which, together with the approved site plan if required, shall
     constitute the conditional use permit.




                                                                                           Page 341
C.     The planning commission may require as a condition of preliminary approval that a
     conditional use application be brought before the planning commission for consideration of
     final approval.



19.84.100 - Revocation of conditional use permits.                                                        Commented [CW146]: These next two sections deal with
                                                                                                          the potential to revoke an approval for non-compliance.
     A conditional use permit may be revoked by the planning commission upon a finding of failure
to comply with the terms and conditions of the original permit or for any violation of this title
occurring on the site for which the permit was approved. Prior to taking action concerning
revocation of a conditional use permit, a hearing shall be held by the planning commission. Notice
of the hearing and the grounds for consideration of revocation shall be mailed to the permittee at
least ten days prior to the hearing.



19.84.110 - Hearing officer.

     The planning commission may appoint, with the concurrence of the county mayormetro
township mayor, a hearing officer or officers to make recommendations to the planning
commission as to whether cause exists for the planning commission to consider revoking any
conditional use permit. Prior to making any recommendation to the planning commission, an
evidentiary hearing shall be conducted by the hearing officer to determine whether the permittee
has failed to comply with the terms and conditions of the original permit or has otherwise violated
any provision of the zoning ordinance occurring on the site for which the permit was approved.
The hearing officer shall notify the planning commission if any violations have been corrected by
the permittee prior to the issuance of the hearing officer's recommendations.



19.84.120 - Inspection.

      Following the issuance of a conditional use permit by the planning commission the building
official shall approve an application for a building permit pursuant to Chapter 19.94 of this title and
shall ensure that development is undertaken and completed in compliance with the permits.



Chapter 19.85 - HOME BUSINESS                                                                             Commented [CW147]: This chapter was enacted in 2004
                                                                                                          to replace “home occupations” with “home businesses.”
                                                                                                          Home occupations were conditional uses, which included
                                                                                                          notifications to neighbors. The County ultimately decided it
19.85.010 - Subject and definition.                                                                       was better to simply have a set of standards in the
                                                                                                          ordinance upon which to base approval of home businesses
                                                                                                          as permitted uses in residential zones.
A.    "Home business" shall mean any business activity, other than those listed below, which is
     conducted entirely within a dwelling or attached garage and is clearly incidental, secondary
     and in addition to the use of the structure for dwelling purposes. The purpose of the home
     business chapter is to allow the use of a portion of a home by one of its residents for business
     purposes, while establishing standards to ensure that the business use of the home will not


                                                                                              Page 342
     adversely impact the residential character of the neighborhood in which the home business
     is located.
B.   "Home business" shall not include the following business activities taking place at the home:         Commented [CW148]: A list of more intensive uses or
                                                                                                           uses that tend to cause problems in residential areas and
     1.    Motor vehicle, trailer or boat repair;                                                          are therefore not allowed as home businesses.
     2.    Any use involving the storage or sale of inflammable, explosive or hazardous materials;
     3.    Junkyards;
     4.    Mortuaries or crematoriums;
     5.    Sexually oriented businesses;
     6.    Lawn mower or small engine repair;
     7.    Auto body and/or fender work;
     8.    Towing operations;
     9.    Vehicle sales or rentals;
     10.    Welding, iron works, foundries;
     11.    Major appliance repair (washers, dryers, refrigerators, etc.).
C.    Uses that are listed as permitted or conditional uses in residential zones and are specifically      Commented [CW149]: This is to point out that there are
     defined under Chapter 19.04 are subject to a conditional or permitted use approval process,           specific uses allowed in some residential zones that have
     but are not subject to regulation under this chapter. Such uses include, but are not limited to,      their own separate approval process which must be
     short-term rentals, home daycare, home preschools, uses involving the raising, breeding,              considered outside the confines of this chapter.
     training, housing, keeping or care of animals, residential health care, residential facilities for
     elderly or disabled persons, bed and breakfast inn or homestay, boarding houses, etc.
D.   The following activities are exempted from regulation under this chapter:
     1.    Garage or yard sales; provided the sale is held for not more than three consecutive days,
           and no more than two times per year at the same location, and no consignment goods
           are offered for sale;
     2.    Temporary social gathering sales that do not exceed one day, such as candle parties,
           book parties, etc. not to exceed four occurrences per year.



19.85.020 - Standards.

     The following standards shall apply to home businesses:                                               Commented [CW150]: These standards were created in
                                                                                                           an effort to allow home businesses to the extent that they
     A.    The primary use of the dwelling must be residential.                                            have minimal impact on the neighborhood.
     B.     The person operating the business must reside in the dwelling on a full-time basis (at
           least nine months per year).
     C.     For lots which front on a right of way less than eighty feet wide, only the business
           operator and his/her immediate family members who reside in the home shall be
           employed or do any work, whether compensated or not, in conjunction with the business.
           For lots which front on a right of way of eighty feet or greater, one additional non-resident
           employee is allowed.




                                                                                               Page 343
     D.    Customers shall be allowed at the residence only if scheduled on an appointment basis,
          and are only allowed between the hours of seven a.m. and ten p.m. Group lessons or
          sessions shall not exceed six people at a time.
     E.    No exterior remodeling shall take place that would change the residential appearance
          of the home.
     F.   Interior structural alterations made to the home are allowed only if they are consistent
          with its primary use as a dwelling.
     G.    All business activities must take place within the dwelling and/or attached garage and
          shall not occupy more than twenty-five percent or more than five hundred square feet
          (whichever is less) of the floor area of the home.
     H.    The storage or display of supplies, inventory, equipment or materials in any portion of
          the yard or within a detached accessory building is prohibited.
     I.    Only those tools, equipment, or electric apparatus that are commonly used as
          accessories to or in conjunction with residential uses are allowed to be used as part of
          the home business.
     J.    Home businesses must be conducted in such a manner as not to emit or create
          excessive odors, smoke, dust, heat, fumes, light, glare, sounds, noises, vibrations or
          interference with radio and/or television reception.
     K.    In addition to the parking spaces required for the residents of the dwelling, parking for
          customers and for an employee, if allowed under subsection (D) above, must be provided
          in the driveway or garage.
     L.   Only a three square foot, non-illuminated nameplate sign is allowed. The nameplate sign
          must be attached to a wall or window of the dwelling.
     M.    No vehicle larger than a passenger car or van or one ton pickup truck is allowed to be
          brought to, parked on, or stored on the property in conjunction with a home business.
     N.   If the applicant for a home business is not the property owner, the applicant must obtain
          written authorization of the property owner or manager to apply.
     O.    The property address (house number) must be clearly posted on the home using letters
          at least four inches in height in a contrasting color to the building.
     P.   The condition of the dwelling and landscaped areas shall be well maintained.



19.85.030 - Regulations and enforcement.

A.    An application for home business must be submitted to the planning and development
     services division of Salt Lake County for review, and must be accompanied by the application
     fee listed in Section 3.52.080. Upon finding that the applicant understands and agrees to            Commented [CW151]: This should probably be amended
     comply with the standards set forth in Section 19.85.020, the application shall be approved.         because section 3.52.080 was replaced with a schedule of
                                                                                                          fees to be adopted each year with the budget (rather than
B.    All home businesses are required to obtain a Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township               having them set in ordinance).
     business license. The business license must be renewed each year that the home business              Commented [CW152]: This will need to change for
     is in operation.                                                                                     Copperton, because business licenses are no longer
C.   Violations of the standards set forth in Section 19.85.020 shall be subject to the civil penalties   required in Copperton.
     outlined in Section 19.94.070. In addition, a business license revocation hearing may be             Commented [CW153]: See above.


                                                                                              Page 344
      scheduled at the discretion of the division director of planning and development services for
      any business found to be in violation of the home business standards or of any other
      countymetro township ordinance.
D.     The business owner is responsible for complying with all applicable health, fire, building and
      safety codes.
E.    All home businesses shall be reviewed for compliance with the provisions of this chapter and
      approved under the application process mentioned above. For the purposes of this chapter,
      a change of business ownership and/or relocation to a new address is considered a new
      business, and requires separate approval.



Chapter 19.86 - HISTORIC PRESERVATION



19.86.010 - Purpose.                                                                                    Commented [CW154]: This chapter is intended to
                                                                                                        incentivize the preservation of historically significant sites.
    This chapter is enacted to preserve sites with special historical, architectural or aesthetic       Once a site is added to the list, planning commission
value which are unique and irreplaceable assets. To accomplish this purpose, planning                   approval is required for modifications. However, revenue
commission approval is required for all modifications to historical sites.                              generating land uses may be allowed to help provide
                                                                                                        funding for maintenance.




19.86.020 - Historic sites designated.

A.     Existing Sites. Each of the following structures and sites in the unincorporated area of the
      county is a historic site:
1.    Little Dell Station, Mountain Dell Canyon.
2.    Granite Paper Mill, 6900 South Big Cottonwood Canyon Road, Salt Lake City.
3.    Henry J. Wheeler Farm, 6343 South 900 East, Salt Lake City.
4.    David Bronson Brinton Home, 1981 East 4900 South, Holladay.
5.    Santa Anna Casto Home, 2731 Casto Lane, Salt Lake City.
6.    Gardner Home and Mill Site, 1475 Murphy's Lane, Salt Lake City.
7.    Edward Pugh Home, 1299 East 4500 South, Salt Lake City.
8.    Butler House, 1045 East 4500 South, Salt Lake City, Eff. 9-28-79.
9.    William J. Bowthorpe Home, 4910 Holladay Boulevard, Salt Lake City.
10.    William H. Walter Home, 2683 Hillsden Drive, Salt Lake City.
11.    George Boyes Home, 4766 Holladay Boulevard, Salt Lake City.
12.    Frank Dilworth Brinton Home, 4880 Highland Circle, Salt Lake City.
13.    Mountain View Train Station, 6211 Emigration Canyon Road, Salt Lake City.
14.    Butler School Teachers Dormitory, 2680 East Fort Union Boulevard, Salt Lake City.



                                                                                            Page 345
15.     Fabian/Tyler Home, 1130 East Vine Street, Salt Lake City.
16.     Jacob Heber Griffiths Farmstead, 525 East Fort Union Boulevard, Salt Lake City.
17.     Mill Creek Farm House, 1106 East 4500 South, Millcreek Township.
      The metro township council may designate historic sites and structures after receiving a
      recommendation from the Historic Preservation Commission/Planning Commission in
      accordance with section 2.88.030 and Chapter 19.90 of this codeB. Amendments. The
      county council may amend the above list of historic sites and structures, including designating
      additional historic sites subject to the amendment procedures in Chapter 19.90 of this code.



19.86.030 - Conditional use permit required.

A.     A conditional use permit is required for any modifications to a historic site or structure,
      including modifications to the landscaping, fencing or appearance of any lot, or demolition,
      construction, alteration, relocation, improvement or conversion of a historic site.
B.     Applications for a conditional use permit on a historic site shall be made in the manner and
      subject to the procedures and requirements set forth in Chapters 19.78 and 19.84 of this title.
      To the extent that the requirements of this chapter and Chapters 19.78 and 19.84 are
      inconsistent, the requirements of this chapter shall prevail.



19.86.040 - Noncomplying conditional uses.

     The planning commission shall not approve a conditional use for a historic site which would
be contrary to the purposes of this chapter by adversely affecting the architectural significance,
the historical appearance, or the educational and historical value of the site unless all the following
conditions have been met:
      A.   The application meets the requirements for a conditional use permit set forth in Chapters
           19.78 and 19.84;
      B.    The application meets all the requirements of the base zone in which the property is
           located;
      C.    The application has been pending before the planning commission for a period of at
           least one year.                                                                                Commented [CW155]: This section is designed in such a
                                                                                                          way as to not absolutely prevent someone from changing
                                                                                                          the nature of the property, but there is a one year waiting
                                                                                                          period involved.

19.86.050 - Site modification.                                                                            Commented [CW156]: This allows the planning
                                                                                                          commission to work with a property owner to modify
    The planning commission may modify all yard, parking, landscaping, height and other                   certain requirements to keep the property in harmony with
requirements of the base zone, as necessary to fulfill the purpose of this chapter. In so doing, the      it’s historic character. For example, a gravel parking area
nature and character of adjacent properties shall be considered to ensure that the health, safety,        may be allowed in lieu of a paved one for a pioneer era
                                                                                                          building.
convenience and general welfare will not be impaired. The planning commission may establish
development criteria to control impacts associated with the heaviest permitted use in the base
zone, including, but not limited to, noise, glare, dust or odor.



                                                                                              Page 346
19.86.060 - Additional uses for historic sites.

A.    Residential, Forestry and Agricultural Zones. The planning commission may approve any of
     the following uses for a historic site in addition to the permitted and conditional uses allowed
     in the agricultural, forestry or residential zone in which the site is located:
     1.    Antique shop;
     2.    Art shop;
     3.    Boardinghouse;
     4.    Child nursery;
     5.    Dental office or clinic;
     6.    Dwelling, single, two, three, four or multiple-family;
     7.    Nursing home;
     8.    Office;
     9.    Private educational institution;
     10.    Reception centers;
     11.    Restaurant;
     12.    Other uses of similar intensity to the above.
B.     Commercial and Manufacturing Zones. The planning commission may approve any use
     listed in the commercial and manufacturing zones of the countymetro township zoning
     ordinance for a historic site located in a commercial or manufacturing zone.



19.86.070 - Interpretation of chapter.                                                                  Commented [CW157]: So much of this chapter is based
                                                                                                        on the judgement of the planning commission and council,
     This chapter does not guarantee the right of any person, firm or corporation to any provision      that this provision just clarifies that not every application
of this chapter.                                                                                        will necessarily be approved.




Chapter 19.87 - RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES FOR PERSONS WITH A DISABILITY                                    Commented [CW158]: After many years of allowing
                                                                                                        these facilities in residential areas based on court decisions
                                                                                                        applying the Fair Housing Act and Americans with
                                                                                                        Disabilities Act, it was decided to put a provision in the
19.87.010 - Purpose.                                                                                    ordinance to address the issue.


    The purpose of this chapter is to balance local zoning considerations with state and federal
mandates requiring a reasonable accommodation for disabled persons living together in a group
housing arrangement in a residential neighborhood.




                                                                                            Page 347
19.87.020 - Scope.

    The requirements of this chapter apply to any facility, residence, group home or other
congregate housing arrangement for persons with a disability notwithstanding any conflicting
provision in this title or any other section of this Code of Ordinances.



19.87.030 - Definitions.

     "Disability" is defined in 19.04.168, "family" in 19.04.230, and "residential facility for persons
with a disability" in 19.04.452 of this title.



19.87.040 - Licensing for residential facilities.

    The licensing requirements for "residential treatment programs" and "residential support
programs" are defined and administered pursuant to state law and the Utah Administrative Code.



19.87.050 - Uses.

A.     No Permit Required. Four or less unrelated individuals who share housekeeping
     responsibilities in a single dwelling do not require a zoning permit but function as a "family,"
     defined in Section 19.04.230 of this title as "one to four unrelated people living together in a
     single dwelling."
B.     The director of planning and zoning development services ("the director"), with the                 Commented [CW159]: This section is an attempt to
     assistance of the district attorney, shall consider requests for a permitted use/reasonable           connect our approval authority to the “reasonable
     accommodation for a "residential facility for persons with a disability" ("facility"). The director   accommodations” provision of the federal law, while not
     or the director's designee shall approve a proper application for a zoning permit for the facility    putting ourselves in the position of judging whether the
                                                                                                           residents do or do not have a “disability.”
     in any zone, including residential zones where only single family dwellings are a permitted
     use, provided:
     1.   The facility meets or will meet all program, physical facility, and licensure requirements
          of the state department of human services or department of health.
     2.   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, buildings and uses shall meet all applicable
          metro township county development standards, licensing and zoning requirements.
     3.    The facility shall not house persons who are involuntarily residing therein or who are
          residing therein as a part of or in lieu of confinement, rehabilitation, or treatment in a
          correctional facility.
     4.    The applicant provides sufficient evidence that the requested accommodation is
          necessary to allow disabled individuals reasonable, non-discriminatory, federally
          mandated housing opportunities in the relevant zone. Evidence may include information
          relating to the history, management, financial feasibility, and therapeutic benefits of the
          facility, and applicable law.




                                                                                              Page 348
C.    The director or the director's designee may not deny the application based upon reasonably
     anticipated detrimental effects to the community so long as reasonable conditions are
     proposed to mitigate such anticipated detrimental effects.
D.    Institutional Uses. Consistent with the International Building Code, residential facilities             Commented [CW160]: Based on court cases, we could
     designed to house more than sixteen individuals constitute "institutional facilities" likely to          not limit the number of people residing together in such a
     create a fundamental change in the character of a single family residential neighborhood.                facility unless tied to a building or other code requirement.
     The only residential zone where an application for a conditional use permit for an institution
     serving more than sixteen residents may be approved is in a zone that allows apartments as
     a conditional or permitted use.



19.87.060 - Termination.                                                                                      Commented [CW161]: This section was put in the
                                                                                                              ordinance to show concerned neighbors that we could make
    A use permitted by this chapter is nontransferable and shall be subject to revocation by the              sure the facility continued to comply in the long-term, but
appropriate land use or licensing authority if:                                                               the D.A. admitted that this section would be very difficult to
                                                                                                              enforce.
     A.   The facility is devoted to a use other than a residential facility for persons with a disability,
          or
     B.    The facility exceeds the maximum number of residents specified and approved in the
          original application, changes the disability classification under state rules, or remodels
          or expands without first receiving approval from the director.
     C.    The facility is not licensed by the state department of health or department of human
          services.
     D.    It is determined by an appropriate countymetro township authority that residents of the
          facility have engaged in a pattern of criminal acts of nuisance, theft, or violence in the
          adjoining neighborhood.



19.87.070 - Residential day treatment.

      To avoid excessive traffic, on street parking, and related impacts altering the residential
character of a neighborhood, no day treatment for non-residents shall be permitted in residential
facilities for the disabled in the R-1 or R-2 residential zones.



19.87.080 - Parking.                                                                                          Commented [CW162]: The D.A. was comfortable that we
                                                                                                              could require this without risking being overturned by the
     The minimum number of parking spaces shall be four spaces plus one space for each five                   courts.
residents, provided that if the number of residents who own or operate a motor vehicle exceeds
the number of parking spaces established above, additional parking shall be provided to ensure
that every resident who owns or operates a motor vehicle has a lawfully located off-street parking
space.




                                                                                                 Page 349
19.87.090 - Appeals.

     Pursuant to section 19.92.050 of this title for permitted uses, any person adversely affected
by a final decision of the zoning authority may appeal that decision to the board of adjustmentland
use hearing officer.



Chapter 19.88 - NONCONFORMING USES AND NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURES*                                       Commented [CW163]: “Nonconforming use” and
                                                                                                      “noncomplying structure” are terms used in the state code,
                                                                                                      so we use the same terms here. They refer to uses or a
                                                                                                      structures that at one time were legal on a specific
19.88.010 - Continuation of use.                                                                      property, but due to subsequent ordinance changes, do not
                                                                                                      comply to current code.
     The occupancy of a noncomplying structure or of a building or structure by a nonconforming
use, existing at the time this title became effective, may be continued, provided that the use has
not been abandoned or the building left vacant as provided in Section 19.88.120.                      Commented [CW164]: 19.88.010, 19.88.080, and
                                                                                                      19.88.120 combined state that a use may be continued as
                                                                                                      long as it takes place on the property for at least two
                                                                                                      consecutive weeks every year.

19.88.020 - Occupation within one year.

    A vacant building or structure may be occupied by a use for which the building or structure
was designed or intended if so occupied within a period of one year after the use became
nonconforming.



19.88.030 - Maintenance permitted.

    A noncomplying structure may be maintained.



19.88.040 - Repairs and alterations permitted.

     Repairs and structural alterations may be made to a noncomplying structure or to a structure
housing a nonconforming use. Any remodel or structural alteration that requires the demolition of
an outside wall of a noncomplying structure shall only be allowed upon approval of the land use
hearing officer, unless the new construction complies with the zoning ordinance. The land use         Commented [CW165]: This clause is to prevent someone
hearing officer decision regarding applications for the removal and replacement of outside walls      from tearing down and replacing large sections of a non-
of a noncomplying structure shall be based upon the criteria outlined in Section 19.88.070(B).        complying structure and calling it a “remodel.”




19.88.050 - Addition of parking space.

    A building or structure lacking sufficient automobile parking space in connection therewith as
required by this title may be altered or enlarged provided additional automobile parking space is
supplied to meet the requirements of this title for such alteration or enlargement.


                                                                                          Page 350
19.88.060 - Expansion of use permitted.

    A nonconforming use may be extended to include the entire floor area of the existing building
in which it is conducted at the time the use became nonconforming.



19.88.070 - Additions, enlargements, moving and reconstruction of a structure.

A.    A noncomplying structure or building occupied by a nonconforming use shall not be added
     to or enlarged in any manner or moved to another location on the lot or reconstructed at
     another location on the lot except as provided by subsection B of this section unless such
     additions and enlargements comply with the regulations and intent of this title.                  Commented [CW166]: If the addition to the building
                                                                                                       complies with setback and height regulations, then it is
B.    A building occupied by a nonconforming use or a noncomplying structure may be added to           allowed. If the addition itself will also be nonconforming as
     or enlarged or moved to a new location on the lot or reconstructed at a new location on the       to setback or height regulations, hearing officer approval is
     lot upon a permit authorized by the land use hearing officer, provided that the land use          required as set forth in “B”
     hearing officer shall find:
     1.    The addition to, enlargement of, moving of, or reconstruction of the structure at a new
          location on the lot is in harmony with one or more of the purposes of this title as stated
          in Section 19.02.020 of this title, and is in keeping with the intent of this title;
     2.    That the proposed change does not impose any unreasonable burden upon the lands
          located in the vicinity of the nonconforming use or structure.



19.88.080 - Nonconforming use of land.

     The nonconforming use of land, existing at the time this title became effective, may be
continued provided that no such nonconforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or
extended either on the same or adjoining property, and provided that if such nonconforming use
of land, or any portion thereof, is abandoned or changed for a period of one year or more, any
future use of such land shall be in conformity with the provision of this title.



19.88.090 - Change of use.                                                                             Commented [CW167]: The idea behind this section is to
                                                                                                       allow the use to change over the years to less and less
A.   A nonconforming use may be changed to any use allowed in the most restrictive zone where          intensive uses so a property gradually becomes more in
     such nonconforming use is allowed, provided the planning commission finds that such use           harmony with nearby properties.
     would not be more intensive than the most recent existing legal nonconforming use.
B.    Structures shall not be enlarged, removed, reconstructed or otherwise changed except for
     interior remodeling and exterior restoration or renewal that will make the appearance of the
     structure more nearly conform to the character of the area in which it is located.




                                                                                           Page 351
C.     The existing lot or parcel shall not be enlarged upon or modified except to create
     landscaping, fencing, curb, gutter and sidewalk, road widening or minimum off-street parking
     that will provide a safer and more compatible facility.
D.    Any change of a nonconforming use to another nonconforming use shall be a conditional
     use and subject to provisions of Chapters 19.78 and 19.84, except that the proposed
     nonconforming use need not conform to the countymetro township general plan.
E.    The planning commission may approve a change of use pursuant to this title even though
     the nonconforming use may have been abandoned.



19.88.110 - Restoration of damaged structure.                                                             Commented [CW168]: Recognizes people’s right to
                                                                                                          recover from events beyond their control.
     A noncomplying structure or a structure occupied by a nonconforming use which is damaged
or destroyed by fire, flood, wind, earthquake or other calamity or act of God or the public enemy
and not the result of the intentional or reckless disregard of the owners or occupants, may be
restored and the occupancy or use of such structure or part thereof, which existed at the time of
such damage or destruction may be continued or resumed, provided that such restoration is
started within a period of one year and is diligently prosecuted to completion.



19.88.120 - Abandonment or one-year vacancy.

    A structure or portion thereof occupied by a nonconforming use, which is, or hereafter
becomes, vacant and remains unoccupied by a nonconforming use for a continuous period of one
year, except for dwellings, shall not thereafter be occupied except by a use which conforms to the
use regulations of the zone in which it is located. If the use has not applied to the premises for a
consecutive period of sixty days during any twelve-month period, the use shall be deemed
abandoned.



19.88.140 - Application to have a use violation declared legal through special exception.                 Commented [CW169]: This provision allows the planning
                                                                                                          commission to make a determination as to whether to allow
A.   Whenever land or a structure is used in violation of this title, the owner may file an application   continuation of a long-standing use that is technically illegal,
     with the planning commission to have the use declared legal through special exception. The           but continuation of said use will not materially harm anyone
     planning commission may approve such an application only when the evidence establishes               and is not the subject of enforcement action.
     all of the following:
     1.   The use exists on the property at the time of the application and has been in continuous
          violation of the zoning ordinance for a period exceeding ten years;
     2.    No complaint has been made to the development services division concerning the
          violation for a period exceeding ten consecutive years during which the violation existed;
     3.   Continuation of the use will not have a detrimental effect on the health, safety or welfare
          of persons or property in the vicinity.
B.   The planning commission may consider as evidence:



                                                                                              Page 352
    1.   Documents that are part of the public record, such as tax appraisals, utility records, aerial
         photographs, building permits, etc.
    2.   Documentation from third parties, such as affidavits, photographs, etc.
    3.   Documentation from current or past property owners, such as tax records, rental/lease
         agreements, appraisal records, etc.
      In approving an application hereunder, the planning commission may set any conditions it
deems necessary for protection of adjacent properties or the public welfare including provisions
limiting the period of time the use may continue. This section shall in no way be interpreted to
permit the continuation of any violation which exists on the effective date of the ordinance codified
in this section. Any person shall have the right to appeal to the land use hearing officer a decision
rendered by the planning commission pursuant to this section. Appellants shall follow the appeal
procedures set forth in Section 19.92.050 of this title.



19.88.150 - Application to have a structure declared a noncomplying structure.                           Commented [CW170]: Similar to 19.88.140 above, this
                                                                                                         section allows approval of structures that have existed for
    Whenever a structure is in violation of the height or setback provisions of this title, the owner    over 10 years and are not causing a health or safety
may file an application with the director or director's designee to have the structure declared          problem. When this section was first presented to the
noncomplying. The director or director's designee shall approve the application when the                 planning commission many years ago, it was similar to
                                                                                                         19.88.140, and involved a public hearing and planning
evidence clearly establishes the following:                                                              commission approval. However, the planning commission
    A.    The structure has existed at its current location, with the same size, height and setbacks     felt that if a structure is there where everyone can see it for
         for at least ten years;                                                                         over 10 years and nobody has complained, what is the point
                                                                                                         of a public hearing? They therefore recommended the
    B.   The structure is found by the county building official or designee to pose no threat to the     ordinance involve approval on a staff level.
         health or safety of persons in or around the structure, and;
    C.    Salt Lake Countydirector, in behalf of the metro township, has not taken enforcement
         action for the violation for a period exceeding five consecutive years during which the
         violation existed.



Chapter 19.90 - AMENDMENTS AND REZONING



19.90.010 - Amendment procedure.                                                                         Commented [CW171]: This is in harmony with the
                                                                                                         process outlined in Utah code.
     The county metro township council may amend the number, shape, boundaries or area of
any zone or any regulation within any zone. Any such amendment shall not be made or become
effective unless the same shall have been proposed by or be first submitted for the
recommendation of the relevant planning commission.



19.90.020 - Hearing—Notice.




                                                                                             Page 353
     Before finally adopting any such amendment, the county metro township council shall
consider the application during a public meeting which has been properly noticed in compliance            Commented [CW172]: The noticing requirements for a
with the provisions of Title 52, Chapter 4, of the Open and Public Meetings Act.                          public meeting are different than those for a public hearing.




19.90.030 - Determination of council.                                                                     Commented [CW173]: There is no requirement for the
                                                                                                          metro council to hold a public hearing or take public input in
    The county metro township council, after review of the recommendation of the planning                 the local ordinance or in Utah code. The public
commission, may approve, deny, alter or remand for further review and consideration any                   hearing/input is required at the planning commission level.
application for zone change referred to the metro township council by the planning commission.



19.90.050 - Disapproval of rezone application.

     Disapproval of an application to amend the zoning map shall preclude the filing of another
application to amend the zoning map to reclassify the same parcel of property, or any portion
thereof to the same zone classification or if the application is for a commercial classification to the
same or any other commercial classification, within one year of the date of the final disapproval         Commented [CW174]: It fairly common for most
of the application unless the county metro township council finds that there has been a substantial       municipalities to have a provision like this to prevent repeat
change in the circumstances or sufficient new evidence since the disapproval of the application           applications for the same zone on the same property until
to merit consideration of a second application within the one-year time period.                           circumstances have changed.




19.90.060 - Conditions to zoning map amendment.                                                           Commented [CW175]: The ability to approve conditional
                                                                                                          zoning is unique to the zoning ordinance of the County, but
A.    In order to provide more specific land use designations and land development suitability; to        has been used many times to “customize” the zoning to be
     insure that proposed development is compatible with surrounding neighborhoods; and to                compatible with the surrounding community.
     provide notice to property owners of limitations and requirements for development of
     property, conditions may be attached to any zoning map amendment which limit or restrict
     the following:
     1.   Uses;
     2.   Dwelling unit density;
     3.   Building square footage;
     4.   Height of structures.
B.    A zoning map amendment attaching any of the conditions set forth in subsection A shall be
     designated ZC after the zoning classification on the zoning map and any such conditions
     shall be placed on record with the planning commission and recorded with the county
     recorder.
C.    In the event any zoning condition is declared invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
     then the entire zoning map amendment shall be void. Any deletion in or change to zoning
     condition shall be considered an amendment to the zoning ordinance and shall be subject to
     the requirements of this chapter.




                                                                                              Page 354
19.90.070 - Application to amend the general plan.

     Subject to the restrictions in Sections 19.90.080 and 19.90.090, any property owner or
authorized agent thereof may file an application requesting an amendment to the county metro
township general plan. Such application shall include the reasons or basis upon which the
property owner believes the county general plan should be amended. Amendments to the
countymetro township general plan shall comply with the procedures set forth in Chapter 27a of
Title 17 of the state code.                                                                           Commented [CW176]: This must be changed to Chapter
                                                                                                      9a of Title 10 of the State Code for municipalities.



19.90.080 - Restriction on applications after adoption of general plan.

     No application may be filed by any property owner or authorized agent thereof to amend any
part of the metro township county general plan for a period of one year after adoption of such part
of the county general plan by the county metro township council.



19.90.090 - Disapproval of general plan application.

     Disapproval of an application to amend the county metro township general plan shall preclude
the filing of another application to amend the general plan text in the same or similar manner or
to amend the general plan map for any parcel of property or portion thereof to the same land use
designation within two years of the date of the final disapproval of the application unless the       Commented [CW177]: Similar to the one-year hold for
planning commission finds that there has been a substantial change in the circumstances or other      denied rezone requests above, but general plans have a 2
significant reasons since the disapproval of the application to merit consideration of a second       year hold.
application within the two-year time period. No appeal to the county metro township council may
be taken from a planning commission decision rendered pursuant to this section.



Chapter 19.91 - SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES



19.91.010 - Title for citation.

    The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be known and may be referred to as the "Sexually
Oriented Businesses Zoning Ordinance."



19.91.020 - Purpose of provisions.                                                                    Commented [CW178]: Because these types of businesses
                                                                                                      were deemed constitutionally protected under the first
    It is the purpose and objective of this chapter that the county Copperton Metro Township          amendment, Salt Lake County (along with most other
establish reasonable and uniform regulations to prevent the concentration of sexually oriented        municipal jurisdictions) adopted an ordinance to regulate
businesses or their location in areas deleterious to the unincorporated area of Salt Lake             “time and place” rather than prohibiting them outright.
Countymetro township; to regulate the signage of such businesses; to control the adverse effects
of such signage; and to prevent inappropriate exposure of such businesses to the community.


                                                                                          Page 355
This chapter is to be construed as a regulation of time, place and manner of the operation of these
businesses, consistent with the limitations provided by provisions of the United States and Utah
Constitutions.



19.91.030 - Definitions.

     As used in this chapter:
    "Public park" means a park, playground, swimming pool, golf course or athletic field which is
under the control, operation or management of the state, a state agency, the county, or a
municipality.
     "Religious institution" means a building which is used primarily for religious worship and
related religious activities.
     "School" means an institution of learning or instruction primarily catering to minors, whether
public or private, which is accredited as such a facility by the State of Utah. This definition shall
include kindergartens, elementary schools, junior high schools, middle high schools, senior high
schools, or any special institution of learning under the jurisdiction of the State Department of
Education, but shall not include home occupations represented as schools, trade schools, charm
schools, dancing schools, music schools or similar limited schools, nor public or private
universities or colleges.
    "Sexually oriented business" means adult businesses, nude entertainment businesses,
seminude dancing bars, outcall services, and nude and seminude dancing agencies as defined
in Chapter 5.136.Chapter 5.20.                                                                             Commented [CW179]: Chapter 5.20 replaced chapter
                                                                                                           5.136 of the business license code, and contains the bulk of
                                                                                                           the regulations regarding this type of business, including the
                                                                                                           various definitions.

19.91.040 - Business permitted—Restrictions.

A.    Sexually oriented businesses, other than outcall services and nude and seminude dancing
     agencies, shall be permitted only in areas zoned C-3 and M-1 pursuant to the provisions of            Commented [CW180]: These two types of businesses are
     Chapters 19.64 and 19.66 respectively, subject to the following additional restrictions:              basically just offices (see “B” below) that book and send
                                                                                                           dancers to other locations to perform.
     1.   Sexually oriented businesses shall be subject to conditional use requirements.
     2.   No sexually oriented business shall be located:
          (a)    Within one thousand feet from any school, public park, religious institution, or other
                sexually oriented business;
          (b)    Within three hundred feet from an agricultural or residential boundary;
     3.    The distance requirements for this section shall be measured in a straight line, without
          regard to intervening structures, from the nearest property line of the school, public park,
          religious institution, agricultural or residential zoning district, or other sexually oriented
          business and to the nearest property line of the sexually oriented business.
B.    Outcall services and nude and seminude dancing agencies shall be permitted only in the
     following zones:
     1.   R-M—as an office, business use only, and subject to conditional use approval, pursuant
          to the provisions of chapter 19.44;


                                                                                              Page 356
    2.   C-1, C-2, C-3, and M-1 as an office, business use only, pursuant to the provisions of
         chapters 19.56, 19.62, 19.64 and 19.66 respectively.



19.91.050 - Sign restrictions.                                                                           Commented [CW181]: These restrictions were obviously
                                                                                                         designed to keep signs associated with this type of business
     Notwithstanding anything contrary contained in Chapter 19.82 of this title, signs for sexually      from being overly graphic.
oriented businesses shall be limited as follows:
    A.   No more than one exterior sign shall be allowed;
    B.   No sign shall be allowed to exceed eighteen square feet;
    C.    No animation shall be permitted on or around any sign, or on the exterior walls or roof
         of such premises;
    D.    No descriptive art or designs depicting any activity related to, or inferring, the nature of
         the business shall be allowed on any sign. Said signs shall contain alphanumeric copy
         only;
    E.   Only flat signs shall be permitted;
    F.   Painted wall advertising shall not be allowed;
    G.    Other than the signs specifically allowed by this chapter, the sexually oriented business
         shall not construct or allow to be constructed any temporary sign, banner, light or other
         device designed to draw attention to the business location.



19.91.060 - Severability.

     If any provision or clause of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or
circumstances is held to be unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent
jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect other sections, provisions, clauses or applications
hereof which can be implemented without the invalid provision, clause or application hereof, and
to this end the provisions and clauses of this chapter are declared to be severable.



Chapter 19.92 - LAND USE HEARING OFFICER



19.92.010 - Creation.                                                                                    Commented [CW182]: Until 2013, variances and appeals
                                                                                                         were heard by the Board of Adjustment, which was a
    The position of land use hearing officer is created pursuant to the enabling authority granted       volunteer board of citizens much like a planning
by the CountyMunicipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, section 17-27a10-9a-                   commission. The County made this change when it became
701 of the Utah Code Annotated. The land use hearing officer shall replace in all respects the           apparent that complex issues such as appeals were difficult
                                                                                                         for a citizens board to deal with, whereas a hearing officer
previous duties of the board of adjustment. Only one hearing officer shall consider and decide           who had some legal background and training would not be
any matter properly presented for land use hearing officer review.                                       overwhelmed by legal issues.




                                                                                             Page 357
19.92.020 - Procedures.                                                                                  Commented [CW183]: This section was carried over
                                                                                                         from the Board of Adjustment ordinance, but simplified
A.   The land use hearing officer may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.           (because a hearing officer doesn’t choose a chairperson or
                                                                                                         have “voting” rules).
B.   All hearings before the land use hearing officer shall comply with the requirements of Chapter
     4, Title 52, Utah Code, Open and Public Meetings.
     1.   The land use hearing officer shall:
          a.   Keep minutes of his or her proceedings; and
          b.   Keep records of his or her examinations and other official actions.
     2.   The land use hearing officer shall file his or her records in the office of the development
          services division. All such records are public records.
C.    Decisions of the land use hearing officer become effective at the meeting in which the
     decision is made, unless a different time is designated at the time the decision is made.



19.92.030 - Powers and duties.

     The land use hearing officer shall:
     A.   Act as the appeal authority for zoning decisions applying this title as provided in Section
          19.92.050 and for conditional use decisions by a planning commission:
     B.   Hear and decide the special exceptions to the terms of the zoning ordinance set forth in
          Section 19.92.060.
     C.   Hear and decide variances from the terms of the zoning ordinance; and
     D.   Hear and decide applications for the expansion or modification of nonconforming uses.          Commented [CW184]: While the rules regarding items
                                                                                                         “A” through “C” are found in this chapter (.040, .050, and
                                                                                                         .060 below) the rules regarding expansion or modification
                                                                                                         of nonconforming uses are found in chapter 19.88.

19.92.040 - Variances.

A.    Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the requirements of the zoning
     ordinance as applied to a parcel of property that he/she owns, leases, or in which he/she
     holds some other beneficial interest may apply to the land use hearing officer for a variance
     from the terms of the zoning ordinance.
B.   1.    The land use hearing officer may grant a variance only if:                                    Commented [CW185]: The criteria outlined in “B”
                                                                                                         through “F” are taken directly from the Utah Code.
          a.   Literal enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause an unreasonable hardship
               for the applicant that is not necessary to carry out the general purpose of the zoning
               ordinance;
          b.   There are special circumstances attached to the property that do not generally apply
               to other properties in the same district;
          c.   Granting the variance is essential to the enjoyment of a substantial property right
               possessed by other property in the same district;
          d.   The variance will not substantially affect the general plan and will not be contrary to
               the public interest; and


                                                                                             Page 358
          e.   The spirit of the zoning ordinance is observed and substantial justice done.
     2.   a.    In determining whether or not enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause
               unreasonable hardship under subsection (B)(1), the land use hearing officer may
               not find an unreasonable hardship unless the alleged hardship:
               i.    Is located on or associated with the property for which the variance is sought;
                     and
               ii.   Comes from circumstances peculiar to the property, not from conditions that
                     are general to the neighborhood.
          b.   In determining whether or not enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause
               unreasonable hardship under subsection (B)(1), the land use hearing officer may
               not find an unreasonable hardship if the hardship is self-imposed or economic.
     3.   In determining whether or not there are special circumstances attached to the property
          under subsection (B)(1), the land use hearing officer may find that special circumstances
          exist only if the special circumstances:
          a.   Relate to the hardship complained of; and
          b.   Deprive the property of privileges granted to other properties in the same district.
C.    The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the conditions justifying a variance
     have been met.
D.   Variances run with the land.
E.   The land use hearing officer may not grant use variances.
F.    In granting a variance, the land use hearing officer may impose additional requirements on
     the applicant that will:
     1.   Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or
     2.   Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or modified.



19.92.050 - Appeals.

A.   1.     The applicant or any other person or entity adversely affected by a zoning decision
          administering or interpreting a zoning ordinance may appeal that decision by alleging
          that an order, requirement, decision or determination made by an official in the
          administration or interpretation of the zoning ordinance is arbitrary, capricious or illegal.   Commented [CW186]: This establishes the legal standard
          Appeals of conditional use decisions rendered by a planning commission shall follow the         of review for appeals by the hearing officer. Without this in
          review procedure outlined in Section 19.84.080 of this code.                                    place, all appeals would be heard “de novo,” which means a
                                                                                                          whole new hearing before the hearing officer in which he
     2.    Any officer, department, board or bureau of a county metro township affected by the            may substitute his judgement for the planning
          grant or refusal of a building permit or by any other decisions of the administrative officer   commission’s. With this criteria in place, the hearing officer
          in the administration or interpretation of the zoning ordinance may appeal any decision         is bound to judge only whether the planning commission
          to the land use hearing officer.                                                                acted within their authority, not whether he agrees with
                                                                                                          their judgement.
B.    The person or entity making the appeal has the burden of marshalling the evidence and
                                                                                                          Commented [CW187]: The person filing an appeal has to
     proving that the decision is arbitrary, capricious (unsupported by the evidence or facts of          make the case for that appeal. The presumption is that
     record), or illegal.                                                                                 unless proven otherwise, the planning commission acted
                                                                                                          appropriately.



                                                                                              Page 359
C.    1.     Only zoning decisions applying the ordinance and conditional use decisions by the
           planning commission may be appealed to the land use hearing officer.
     2.    A person may not appeal, and the land use hearing officer may not consider, any zoning
           ordinance amendments.
D.    Appeals may not be used to waive or modify the terms or requirements of the zoning
     ordinance.
E.    An appeal to the land use hearing officer must be filed at the planning and development
     services division of Salt Lake County within sixty days after the order, requirement decision
     or determination administering or interpreting the zoning ordinance is made in writing. The
     appeal shall set forth with specificity the reasons or grounds for the appeal.
F.    Appeals of planning commission conditional use decisions shall follow the procedures set
     forth in Section 19.84.080(B).



19.92.060 - Special exceptions.                                                                         Commented [CW188]: There used to be more exceptions
                                                                                                        on this list, but it was trimmed down to just these 3 in 2013.
     The land use hearing officer may approve any of the following special exceptions to the            The D.A. felt that some of the “exceptions” were basically
zoning ordinance where he or she determines the exception is consistent with the purposes of            variances but with different criteria.
the zoning ordinance and will not be detrimental to the health, safety or general welfare of persons
residing or working in the vicinity, or injurious to property or improvements in the vicinity:
     A.    Where a zone boundary line divides a lot in single ownership at the time of the passage      Commented [CW189]: Sometimes we have properties
           of the ordinance codified in this title, the land use hearing officer may permit a use       with a zone boundary running through them, with part of
           authorized on either portion of such lot to extend not more than fifty feet into the other   the property one zone, and part the other zone. This allows
           portion of the lot.                                                                          some flexibility without having to go through the zone
                                                                                                        change process.
     B.     The land use hearing officer may permit the enlargement of or addition to a
           noncomplying structure or a building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use.
     C.     The land use hearing officer may permit the relocation on a lot of a noncomplying
           structure or a building or structure occupied by a nonconforming use; or the hearing
           officer may permit the reconstruction on a lot of a noncomplying structure or a building
           occupied by a nonconforming use.



Chapter 19.93 - PROCEDURES FOR ANALYZING TAKINGS CLAIMS                                                 Commented [CW190]: This entire chapter of code was
                                                                                                        written by attorneys, and only comes into play if someone
                                                                                                        claims that the zoning regulations are so restrictive on their
                                                                                                        property as to constitute a regulatory taking. It is based on
19.93.010 - Purpose.                                                                                    creating an internal review prior to a takings issue going to
                                                                                                        court; otherwise, a judge hearing a takings case will most
                                                                                                        likely refer the issue back to the parties to see if they can’t
     The purpose of this chapter is to establish procedures for:                                        come to agreement outside the courtroom. The hearing
     A.      Obtaining and analyzing information regarding a claim that the application or              officer mentioned in this section is not necessarily the same
           enforcement of Salt Lake CountyCopperton Metro Township zoning ordinances and/or             hearing officer discussed in 19.92
           land use regulations to private property within the unincorporated areas of the
           countymetro township constitutes an unconstitutional taking of private property without
           just compensation; and



                                                                                            Page 360
     B.    Determining whether it might be appropriate to grant administrative relief to the claimant
          in the event it is determined that such application or enforcement constitutes an
          unconstitutional taking.



19.93.020 - Findings.

     The governing body makes the following findings:
     A.    To further the public interest in lawful and responsible land development, and promote
          the health, welfare, and safety of its residents, the county metro township has enacted
          zoning and other land development regulations applicable to properties within
          unincorporated areas of the countymetro township, including new and revised
          regulations applicable to properties in the county's canyons and foothills; and
     B.    In the event an owner of private property within the unincorporated area of the
          countymetro township claims that the application or enforcement of county metro
          township zoning ordinances or other land use regulation constitutes an unconstitutional
          taking of its private property, it is in the best interests of the county metro township to
          have established procedures for obtaining relevant information for analyzing such claim
          and determining whether it might be appropriate to grant certain relief to the claimant,
          rather than conducting such analysis in a more confrontational, expensive, and time-
          consuming litigation context.



19.93.030 - Taking relief procedures—Petition and submittal requirements.

A.    Takings Relief Petition. Any applicant, after a final decision on its application is rendered by
     the development services director, planning commission, land use hearing officer,
     mayormetro township mayor or metro townshipcounty council, may file a takings relief petition
     with the development services director seeking relief from the final decision on the grounds
     that it constitutes an unconstitutional taking of the applicant's private property.
B.    Affected Property Interest. The takings relief petition must provide information sufficient for
     the attorney to determine that the petitioner possesses a protectable interest in property
     under Article I, Section 22 of the Constitution of Utah or the Fifth Amendment to the United
     States Constitution. In the event the petition does not provide information sufficient for the
     attorney to determine that the petitioner possesses a protectable interest in property under
     Article I, Section 22 of the Constitution of Utah or the Fifth Amendment to the United States
     Constitution, the petition shall be returned to the petitioner.
C.    Time for Filing Petition. No later than thirty calendar days from the final decision by the
     development services director, planning commission, land use hearing officer, mayormetro
     township mayor, county metro township council or other county review authority on any site
     plan or other type of zoning application the applicant shall file a takings relief petition with the
     development services director.
D.   Information to Be Submitted with Takings Relief Petition.
     1.   The takings relief petition must be submitted on a form prepared by the development
          services director, and must be accompanied at a minimum by the following information:


                                                                                               Page 361
          a.   The name of the petitioner;
          b.    The name and business address of the current owner of the property; form of
               ownership (whether sole proprietorship, for-profit or not-for-profit corporation,
               partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, or other); and if owned by
               corporation, partnership, or joint venture, or limited liability company, the names and
               addresses of principal shareholders or partners or members;
          c.   The price paid and other terms of sale for the property, the date of purchase, and
               the name of the party from whom purchased. Include the relationship, if any,
               between the petitioner and the party from whom the property was acquired;
          d.   The nature of the protectable interest claimed to be affected, such as, but not limited
               to, fee simple ownership or leasehold interest;
          e.    The terms (including sale price) of any previous purchase or sale of a full or partial
               interest in the property by the current owner, applicant, or developer prior to the date
               of application;
          f.   All appraisals of the property prepared for any purpose, include financing, offering
               for sale, or ad valorem taxation, within the three years prior to the date of the petition;
          g.   The assessed value of and ad valorem taxes on the property for the three years
               prior to the date of the petition;
          h.     All information concerning current mortgages or other loans secured by the
               property, including name of the mortgagee or lender, current interest rate, remaining
               loan balance, and term of the loan and other significant provisions, including but not
               limited to, right of purchase to assume the loan;
          i.   All listings of the property for sale or rent, price asked and offers received (if any),
               during the period of ownership or interest in the property;
          j.   All studies commissioned by the petitioner or agents of the petitioner within the
               previous three years concerning feasibility of development or utilization of the
               property;
          k.   For income producing property, itemized income and expense statements from the
               property for the previous three years;
          l.   Evidence and documentation of improvements, investments, and expenditures for
               professional and other services related to property made during the past three years;
          m.    Information from a title policy or other source showing all recorded liens or
               encumbrances affecting the property; and
          n.   Information describing all use(s) of the property during the five years prior to the
               petition.
     2.    The development services director may request additional information reasonably
          necessary, in his or her opinion, to arrive at a conclusion concerning whether there has
          been a taking.
E.    Failure to Submit Information. In the event that any of the information required to be
     submitted by the petitioner is not reasonably available, the petitioner shall file with the petition
     a statement of the information that cannot be obtained and shall describe the reasons why
     such information is unavailable.




                                                                                                Page 362
19.93.040 - Taking relief procedures—Determination of taking.

A.   Preliminary Determination of Taking.
     1.    Prior to the appointment of a hearing officer, and based on a review of the petition and
          all relevant information submitted by the petitioner, the county metro township council,
          upon advice of the development services director and the metro township attorney, shall
          make a preliminary determination whether a taking may have occurred. This preliminary
          determination shall be made within thirty days of the filing of the petition and submission
          of all information required to make such determination. In the event the countymetro
          township council makes a preliminary determination that a taking may have occurred,
          the county council may appoint a hearing officer, elect to conduct either formal or informal
          administrative proceedings, and proceed with a full review of the petition.
     2.    If a preliminary determination is made that a taking may have occurred, then the
          development services director and attorney shall recommend whether the hearing shall
          be formal or informal under the rules of procedure adopted by the governing body for
          such hearings.
     3.    If upon the advice of the development services director and the attorney, the
          countymetro township council finds that a taking has not occurred, the petition shall be
          denied and no hearing officer shall be appointed.
B.    Appointment of Hearing Officer. The development services director shall, within thirty days
     following a preliminary determination by the governing body that a taking may have occurred,
     appoint a hearing officer to review information by the petitioner, to hold a public hearing to
     determine whether a taking has occurred, and to make a recommendation to the governing
     body concerning the petition.
C.    Qualifications of the Hearing Officer. Every appointed hearing officer shall be licensed to
     practice law in the state of Utah. Prior to appointment, the hearing officer shall submit a
     statement of no potential or actual conflict of interest in connection with the petitioner or
     petition.
D.   Notice of Public Hearing. Within ten days following appointment of the hearing officer, written
     notice of a public hearing shall be published and posted in accordance with Utah Code 10-
     9a-202Section 19.84.040D of this title. The hearing shall be held within thirty days of the final
     date of written notice, unless a reasonable extension of time is agreed to by both the
     development services director and the petitioner.
E.    Conduct of the Hearing. The hearing shall be conducted according to the requirements of
     the rules of procedure adopted by the governing body for such hearings.
F.    Determining the Takings Issue. The hearing officer shall consider, among other items, the
     following information or evidence:
     1.    Any estimates from contractors, appraisers, architects, real estate analysts, qualified
          developers, or other competent and qualified real estate professionals concerning the
          feasibility, or lack of feasibility, of construction or development on the property as of the
          date of the petition, and in the reasonably near future;
     2.    Any evidence or testimony of the market value of the property both under the uses
          allowed by the existing regulations and any proposed use; and



                                                                                              Page 363
     3.    Any evidence or testimony concerning the value or benefit to the petitioner from the
          availability of opportunities to cluster development on other remaining contiguous
          property owned by the petitioner eligible for such clustering as provided elsewhere in this
          title.
G.    Burden of Proof. The petitioner shall have the burden of proving by a preponderance of the
     evidence that the final decision that is the subject of the takings relief petition constitutes an
     unconstitutional taking.
H.    Findings of the Hearing Officer. The hearing officer shall, on the basis of the evidence and
     testimony presented, make the following specific findings as part of his/her report and
     recommendations to the governing body:
     1.   Whether the petitioner has complied with the requirements for presenting the information
          to be submitted with a takings relief petition;
     2.   Whether the petitioner has a protectable interest in the property that is the subject of the
          petition;
     3.   The market value of the property considering the existing zoning regulation;
     4.   The market value of the property under the proposed use;
     5.   Whether there are other economically viable uses that may be made of the property;
     6.   The market value of, or benefit accruing from opportunities to cluster development on
          other remaining contiguous property owned by the petitioner eligible for such transfer as
          provided for in this title;
     7.   Whether it was feasible to undertake construction on, or development of, the property
          as of the date of the application, or in the reasonably near future thereafter;
     8.   Whether the final decision that is the subject of the takings relief petition constitutes an
          unconstitutional taking of private property without just compensation.
I.   Report and Recommendations of the Hearing Officer.
     1.   If the hearing officer finds that the final decision which is the subject of the takings relief
          petition constitutes an unconstitutional taking of private property without just
          compensation, he or she shall remand the matter to the governing body with
          recommendations concerning what relief might be appropriate. In making such
          recommendations, the hearing officer shall consider, among other factors:
          a.    Approval of development on some portion of the property; or
          b.     A rezoning of the property to a more appropriate classification, approval of an
                alternative development plan, modification or waiver of normally-applicable
                development standards, or other appropriate land-use regulatory action;
          c.    An opportunity to cluster development;
          d.     For property subject to the foothills and canyons overlay zone, transfer of up to ten
                percent of the maximum allowable density that would otherwise be attributable to
                areas with greater than thirty percent slope on the subject property to other
                developable portions of the property;
          e.    A waiver of permit fees;
          fe.   Acquisition of all or a portion of the property at market value.



                                                                                               Page 364
     2.   Recommendations for clustering within the boundaries of the subject property owned by
          the petitioner shall require a written finding by the hearing officer that such clustering and
          the resulting increase in development density will be compatible with existing
          developments and land use patterns on properties surrounding the subject property.
          a.    For purposes of such "compatibility" finding, the hearing officer shall compare the
               petitioner's proposed development incorporating the increased transfer density with
               existing development on surrounding properties, and take into consideration the
               following factors:
               i.     Architectural character;
               ii.    Building size, height, bulk, mass, and scale;
               iii.    Building orientation;
               iv.     Privacy considerations in terms of privacy for prospective residents within the
                      petitioner's development and in terms of privacy protection for adjoining land
                      uses;
               v.     Building materials;
               vi.     Building color; and
               vii.    When applicable, operations of the petitioner's development project, including
                      but not limited to hours of operation; activities that may generate adverse
                      impacts on adjacent land uses such as noise or glare; location of
                      loading/delivery zones; and light intensity and hours of full illumination.
          d.   The report and recommendation shall be submitted to the county council and mailed
               to the petitioner within thirty days following the conclusion of the public hearing.
J.   County Metro Township Council Review and Consideration.
     1.    The metro townshipcounty council shall review the report and recommendations of the
          hearing officer and approve or deny the takings relief petition within sixty days following
          receipt of the hearing officer's report. Provided, however, that the countymetro township
          council may extend this period upon a finding that due to the size and complexity of the
          development or proposal and similar factors that additional review time is necessary.
     2.    The metro townshipcounty council may hold a public hearing and provide notice as set
          forth in Section 19.84.040D of this title. Only new testimony and evidence shall be
          presented at any such public hearing.
     3.   The metro townshipcounty council may adopt any legally available incentive or measure
          reasonably necessary to offset the taking, and may condition such incentives upon
          approval of specific development or site plans.
     4.   The decision of the county metro township council shall not become final until it issues
          a decision approving or denying the petition and specifying any relief it may deem
          appropriate.
K.    Time Limits/Transferal of Relief or Incentives. Any relief or incentives adopted by the
     countymetro township council pursuant to this chapter may be transferred and utilized by
     successive owners of the property or parties in interest, but in no case shall the relief
     incentives be valid after the expiration date of a specific development approval.




                                                                                              Page 365
Chapter 19.94 - ENFORCEMENT                                                                                 Commented [CW191]: This chapter outlines the
                                                                                                            penalties and enforcement mechanisms for violations of the
                                                                                                            zoning ordinance.

19.94.010 - Enforcement authority.

     The director of development services or his authorized agent is designated as the officer
charged with the enforcement of this title. The director of animal services is designated as the
enforcement official for Section 19.04.305 of the Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances which
shall be enforced pursuant to Section 8.10.010 of this code.



19.94.020 - Powers and duties.                                                                              Commented [CW192]: Authorizes inspections to verify
                                                                                                            violations and enforcement action as necessary to abate
A.    The director of development services is authorized to inspect or cause to be inspected all            violations.
     buildings and structures in the course of construction, modification or repair and to inspect
     land uses to determine compliance with the provisions of this title; provided, however that no
     such inspection shall be required as a condition precedent to commencement or continuation
     of any construction, modification or repair of building or structure.
B.    The director shall enforce all of the provisions of this title, employing all legal means available
     to do so. In the enforcement of this title, the director or any employee of the division
     authorized to represent the director shall have the right to enter any building for the purpose
     of determining the use thereof or to enter the premises for the purpose of determining
     compliance with the provisions of this title, provided that such right of entry shall be exercised
     only at reasonable hours and that in no case shall entry be made to any occupied building in
     the absence of the owner or tenant thereof without the written order of a court of competent
     jurisdiction.



19.94.030 - Unlawful use prohibited.                                                                        Commented [CW193]: This section is the “catch-all” that
                                                                                                            states it is against the law to violate any section of the
A.    No land, building or structure shall be used for any purpose or use not allowed in the zone           zoning ordinance.
     in which such land, building or structure is located.
B.    Violation of any of the provisions contained in this title is prohibited. Any person who violates
     that provisions of this title shall be subject to the criminal and civil penalties set forth in this
     chapter.



19.94.040 - Violation—Penalties and remedies.                                                               Commented [CW194]: This section allows both criminal
                                                                                                            prosecution and action through a civil process to enforce
A.    Violation of any of the provisions of this title is punishable as a Class C misdemeanor upon          the ordinance. My understanding is that ordinances are
     conviction. In addition, the provisions of this title may also be enforced by injunctions,             being drafted for the Metros to consider that would allow
     mandamus, abatement, civil penalties, or any other remedies provided by law.                           the use of hearing officers rather than civil court judges for
                                                                                                            civil penalties and abatement orders.
B.    Any one, all, or any combination of the penalties and remedies set forth in subsection A of
     this section may be used to enforce the provisions of this title.



                                                                                               Page 366
C.    Each day that any violation continues after notification by the director of development
     services or his agent that such violation exists shall be considered a separate offense for
     purposes of penalties and remedies set forth in this title.
D.    Accumulation of penalties for continuing violations, but not the obligation for payment of
     penalties already accrued, shall stop upon correction of the violation.



19.94.050 - Violation—Persons liable.                                                                        Commented [CW195]: Historically, the property owner is
                                                                                                             held responsible for violations, but in cases where the
    Any person, corporation or other entity, whether as owner, occupant, agent or employee, who              evidence points to another responsible party, enforcement
causes, permits or otherwise participates in any violation of the provisions of this title may be held       action can be taken against that person or party.
responsible for the violation, suffer the penalties, and be subject to the remedies provided by law.



19.94.060 - Violation—Notice and order.                                                                      Commented [CW196]: In order for the civil penalties
                                                                                                             provision to be enforceable, the ordinance must clearly
A.    Upon inspection and discovery that any provision of this title is being violated, the director         specify the manner in which notice is provided, including
     shall provide a written notice of violation and order to the property owner and to any other            the establishment of any required warning periods.
     party who may be responsible for the violation.
B.   The written notice and order shall: (1) indicate the nature of the violation; (2) order the action
     necessary to correct the violation; (3) give information regarding the established warning
     period for the violation; and (4) state the action the director intends to take if the violation is
     not corrected within the warning period.
C.    The written notice shall be delivered personally or mailed to the property owner, as shown
     on the records of the county recorder, and to any other person who may be responsible for
     the violation. Receipt of notice shall mean three days after the date written notice is delivered
     or mailed as provided herein.
D.     The written notice shall serve to start any warning periods provided in this chapter,
     commencing upon receipt of notice. If the violation remains uncured within five days after the
     expiration of the warning period, a second notice of violation and order shall be delivered in
     the same manner as the first notice. The second notice shall serve to start the civil penalties.
E.    In cases where the director determines that a delay of enforcement would pose a danger to
     the public health, safety or welfare, or would otherwise compromise the effective enforcement
     of this title, the director may seek immediate enforcement without prior written notice by
     instituting any of the remedies, other than civil penalties, authorized by Section 19.94.040 of
     this chapter.



19.94.070 - Civil penalties.                                                                                 Commented [CW197]: The amounts of these penalties
                                                                                                             have not changed in 20 years, and at least one Metro
A.    Civil Penalties. Violations of the provisions of this title shall result in civil penalties pursuant   (Kearns) is proposing raising them so violations don’t sit for
     to the following schedule:                                                                              so long before the accrued penalty is enough to pay for site
                                                                                                             cleanup.




                                                                                                Page 367
               CIVIL PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION OF ZONING REGULATIONS

                     WARNING PERIOD: 28 DAYS FOR ALL VIOLATIONS

                                                                                 Fine Per Day
            Type of Zone                   Classification of Violation
                                                                            (after warning period)

          Residential Zones             Conditional use without a permit
                                                                                     $25
                R-1's                           Other violations
                R-2's
               R-4-8.5
                FR's                            Nonpermitted use
                                                                                     $50
                 F-1                     Violation of permit or approval
                RMH

            Mixed Zones                 Conditional use without a permit
                                                                                     $50
                R-M                             Other violations
               MD's
               FM's                             Nonpermitted use
                                                                                    $100
               S-1-G                     Violation of permit or approval

                                        Conditional use without a permit
 Commercial/Manufacturing Zones                                                     $100
                                                Other violations
              C's
              M's
                                                Nonpermitted use
             O-R-D                                                                  $200
                                         Violation of permit or approval

                                        Conditional use without a permit
                                                                                     $25
          Agricultural Zones                    Other violations
                  A's
                 FA's                           Nonpermitted use
                                                                                     $50
                                         Violation of permit or approval

           Overlay Zones
               AOZ                           Violation of provisions                $100
               HPZ




B.   Daily Violations. Each day a violation is continued or maintained after receipt of notice shall
     give rise to a separate civil penalty for each day of violation.                                  Commented [CW198]: This section establishes a hearing
                                                                                                       process where a person may appeal if he/she feels there is
C.   Violation Appeal Procedures.                                                                      no violation.


                                                                                           Page 368
     1.   The mayormetro township mayor shall appoint such hearing officers as he/she deems
          appropriate to consider matters relating to the violation of this title.
     2.    Any person having received notice of such violation, or the owner of any affected
          property, may appear before a hearing officer and present and contest such alleged
          violation of this title.
     3.   The burden to prove any defense specified in subsection (C)(4) of this section shall be
          upon the person raising such defense.
     4.   If the hearing officer finds that no violation occurred and/or a violation occurred but one
          or more of the defenses set forth in this section is applicable, the hearing officer may
          dismiss the notice of violation. Such defenses are:
          a.    At the time of the receipt of the notice of violation, compliance would have violated
               the criminal laws of the state;
          b.    Compliance with the subject ordinances would have presented an imminent and
               irreparable injury to persons or property.
     5.   If the hearing officer finds that a violation of this title occurred and no applicable defense
          exists, the hearing officer may, in the interest of justice and on behalf of the countymetro
          township, enter into an agreement for the timely or periodic payment of the applicable
          penalty by the violator.
     6.   No action by a hearing officer shall relieve the violator from complying with any of the
          provisions of this title.
D.   Abatement for Correction and Payment.                                                                 Commented [CW199]: Because correction of the
                                                                                                           violation is the goal (rather than on punishing people) a
     1.   Civil penalties shall be partially abated after the violation is cured and in the discretion     mechanism was put in place for the officer to reduce the
          of a hearing officer considering the following guidelines and factors:                           accrued penalties if the owner brings the property into
          a.    Prompt Cure. Reductions are generally appropriate for promptly curing the violation        compliance.
               pursuant to the following schedule, but the hearing officer may grant greater or
               lesser abatements depending on the facts of the case:
               i.     Cured within fourteen days after second notice—seventy-five percent reduction,
               ii.    Cured within twenty-eight days after second notice—fifty percent reduction, or
               iii.    Cured within fifty-six days after second notice—twenty-five percent reduction;
          b.    If strict compliance with the notice and order would have caused an imminent and
               irreparable injury to persons or property;
          c.   If the violation and inability to cure were both caused by a force majeure event such
               as war, act of nature, strike or civil disturbance;
          d.    Such other mitigating circumstances as may be approved by the attorney or
               designee;
          e.   If a change in the actual ownership of the property was recorded in the recorder's
               officer after the first or second notice was issued and the new owner is not related
               by blood, marriage or common ownership to the prior owner.
     2.    If the hearing officer finds that the noticed violation occurred and no applicable defense
          applies, the hearing officer may, in the interest of justice and on behalf of the countymetro
          township, enter into an agreement for the delayed or periodic payment of the applicable
          penalty.


                                                                                              Page 369
E.   Collection of Civil Penalties.                                                                        Commented [CW200]: The collection of civil penalties is
                                                                                                           currently a matter taken to civil court, but an ordinance is in
     1.    If the penalty imposed pursuant to this chapter remains unsatisfied after forty days or         the works to create a quicker collection and abatement
          when the penalty amounts to five thousand dollars from the receipt of notice, or ten days        process.
          from such date as may have been agreed to by the hearing officer, the countymetro
          township may use such lawful means as are available to collect such penalty, including
          costs and attorney's fees.
     2.   Commencement of any action to remove penalties shall not relieve the responsibility of
          any penalty to cure the violation or make payment of subsequently accrued civil penalties
          nor shall it require the county director or his authorized agent to reissue any of the notices
          required by this chapter.




                                                                                              Page 370
Page 371
Page 372
Page 373
Page 374
Page 375
Page 376
Page 377
