                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.pwpds.slco.org



        Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                   Tuesday, October 8, 2019 6:00 P.M.

Location
BINGHAM CANYON LIONS CLUB
95 EAST HILLCREST STREET
COPPERTON, UTAH
(385) 468-6700
 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

    1) Approval of Minutes from the July 9, 2019 meeting.
    2) Discussion of a resolution adopting the rules of order and procedure. Planning Commission
       feedback – MSD Counsel
    3) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                          ADJOURN




October 8, 2019                             Page 1 of 1       AGENDA – COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
This page intentionally left blank
                                            Planning and Development Services
                                            2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                            Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                            www.pwpds.slco.org




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                      COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                    Tuesday, July 9, 2019 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 3 hours 8 minutes                         *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 2                                     found on the State and County websites, or from Salt Lake
                                                                      County Planning & Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Green

                                                  ATTENDANCE

                                Public     Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                                                 Public      Business
                                 Mtg         Mtg                             Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                              Mtg          Mtg
         Ranuta Alder                                   x
         Vern Winkler             x           x                               Curtis Woodward                   x             x
          Ryan Taylor             x           x                                 Wendy Gurr                      x             x
      Doug Green (Chair)          x           x                               Daniel Quintanilla                x             x
     Mike Stone (Vice Chair)                            x


                                              PUBLIC HEARING
                                          Hearings began at – 6:01 p.m.

30939 – Ordinance Amendments – Enactment of an administrative code enforcement process to be codified
in Title 12 of the Copperton Metro Township Municipal Code.

Nathan Bracken advised issues the ordinance intended to address. Metro Townships are working under the
county code until new ordinances are adopted. County code is based on Title 17, a lot of provisions are the
same and this deals with abatement. Page 10, Administrative citations, work as a traffic ticket. Page 6,
12.1.320, propose administrative law judge would develop the policies. 12.1.330, could access the property.
Page 13, paragraph 4, could be broadened.

Commissioner Green expressed his concern with West Valley code enforcement, there should be a period
if someone doesn’t know they’re in violation, they should get a notice. Mr. Bracken said that is in here, and
the issue is if someone doesn’t comply. Commissioner Green went to court for a neighbor and was watching
the attorney, $25 a day fine, without the means to clean it up or pay for it. Commissioner Green said he
would like it taken care of in Copperton, not outside. Mr. Bracken said county staff is contracted.
Commissioner Winkler asked if this is procedures for violations. Where are the violations listed and
approve them. Mr. Bracken said violations are found in Title 19. Commissioner Winkler asked if there is
any way to make people aware, they should at least be told where they are. Mr. Bracken said it’s not a
zoning ordinance, it’s the tools. Commissioner Taylor asked what determines a minor violation. Mr.

Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – July 9, 2019 – Meeting Summary                                       Page 1 of 3
Bracken referred to page 4, number 19.

Commissioner Green opened the public hearing.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING OPENED

No one from the public present to speak.

Commissioner Green closed the public hearing.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF MEETING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend approval of file #30939 to the Copperton Metro Township Council as presented.
      Motion by: Commissioner Winkler
      2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
      Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

                                           BUSINESS MEETING

                                        Meeting began at – 6:41 p.m.
    1) Approval of Minutes from the May 14, 2019 meeting
       Motion: To approve minutes from the May 14, 2019 meeting as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
             2nd by: Commissioner Winkler
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
        Approval of Minutes from the June 11, 2019 meeting
        Motion: To approve minutes from the June 11, 2019 meeting as presented.
              Motion by: Commissioner Taylor
              2nd by: Commissioner Winkler
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

    2) General Plan discussion
       Daniel Quintanilla provided the swots and asked for completion and participation prior to the
       August meeting and confirmed we would be at town days.

    3) Continued discussion of zoning and subdivision ordinances

        Chapter 19.94 – Enforcement
        No changes

        Chapter 19.79 – Utility and facility system placement regulations
        No changes

        Chapter 19.80 – Off-street parking requirements
        No changes

        Chapter 19.82 – Signs
        No changes



Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – July 9, 2019 – Meeting Summary            Page 2 of 3
        Chapter 19.83 – Wireless telecommunications facilities
        No changes

        Chapter 19.84 – Conditional Uses
        No changes

        Chapter 19.85 – Home Business
        No changes

        Chapter 19.86 – Historic Preservation
        No changes

        Chapter 19.87 – Residential facilities for persons with a disability
        No changes

        Chapter 19.88 – Nonconforming uses and noncomplying structures
        No changes

        Chapter 19.90 – Amendments and rezoning
        No changes

        Chapter 19.91 – Sexually oriented businesses
        No changes

        Chapter 19.92 – Land Use Hearing Officer
        No changes

        Chapter 19.93 – Procedures for analyzing takings claims
        No changes

    4) Other Business Items (as needed)
       Questions regarding the general plan steering committee.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 9:09 p.m.




Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission – July 9, 2019 – Meeting Summary   Page 3 of 3
                         COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                                RESOLUTION # ________
                                  _____________, 2019

       A RESOLUTION OF THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
       ADOPTING RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE FOR THE PLANNING
       COMMISSION

       WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-91-301 requires the municipalities adopt rules of order
and procedure for their planning commissions; and

        WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-103(57) states the rules of order and procedure for
a planning commission govern: (1) parliamentary order and procedure; (2) ethical behavior; and
(3) civil discourse; and

       WHEREAS, Section 19.05.060 of the Copperton Metro Township Code provides that the
Copperton Metro Township Council (the “Council”) will, by resolution, enact rules of order and
procedure for the Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission; and

        WHEREAS, the Council desires to adopt the rules of order and procedure attached to this
resolution.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Copperton Metro Township Council
adopts that the attached rules of order and procedure for the Planning Commission effective
immediately.

        APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah
this _____day of ____________, 2019.

                                                   By:
                                                         Sean Clayton, Mayor

ATTEST


By:
      Sherrie Swensen, Salt Lake County Clerk
      Copperton Metro Township/Recorder


VOTING

Council Member Bailey voting         ___
Council Member Clayton voting        ___
Council Member Patrick voting        ___
Council Member Pazell voting         ___
Council Member Severson voting       ___
               COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION
                       RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE

                        Adopted by the Copperton Metro Township Council
                                  Effective ___________, 2019

These Rules of Order and Procedure (the “Rules”) will govern the proceedings of the Copperton
Metro Township Planning Commission (the “Commission”) and will be consistent with all
applicable provisions of the Utah Code and the Copperton Metro Township Code (the “Code”).

   I.        PARLIAMENTARY ORDER AND PROCEDURE

The most current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern any parliamentary issue that
these Rules do not address.

   II.        PARLIAMENTARIAN

The attorney assigned to advise the Commission shall serve as the Commission’s designated
expert regarding the interpretation and implementation of these Rules.

   III.      MEMBERSHIP

       Section 1. Rights of Members: All members of the Commission (“Members”), including
the Chair of the Commission, will be entitled to one vote on all matters properly brought before
the Commission for action. Proxy votes will not be permitted and Members must be present to
vote unless otherwise conducted in accordance with a duly adopted policy on electronic meetings
by the Commission or by the Copperton Metro Township Council.

          Section 2. Member Responsibilities: Each Member will be responsible for:

             1. Reading and studying the agenda for each meeting, accompanying staff reports, and
                all attached documents prepared by support staff prior to the scheduled meeting;

             2. Acting in a courteous and respectful manner to their fellow Member, to support
                staff, and the public during all Commission meetings; and

             3. Attending Commission meetings.

       Section 3. Training: Within three (3) months of being first appointed, all Members are
encouraged to meet with Support staff to review these the applicable provisions of the Code.

       Section 4. Attendance: Members will endeavor to regularly attend as many Commission
meetings as possible. The Commission may request that the Copperton Metro Township Council
remove a member if he/she/they has five (5) or more unexcused absences within a 12-month period
pursuant to Section 6.

        Section 5. Excused and Unexcused Absences: A Member unable to attend a meeting will
contact the Chair at least 24 hours prior to the scheduled meeting and indicate the reason for being
absent. Members who provide less than 24 hours’ notice will be considered unexcused, except
                                                 1
when the Chair has approved a valid reason. All excused and unexcused absences will be recorded
in the meeting minutes.

        Section 6. Removal Proceedings: Removal from the Commission will be in accordance
with Copperton Metro Township Ordinance by the Copperton Metro Township Council. In the
event the Commission determines, by a majority vote of all Members, that it is in the best interest
of the Commission and the Copperton Metro Township that a Member be removed, the
Commission will make a recommendation to the Copperton Metro Township Council to initiate
removal proceedings.

   IV.      SUPPORT STAFF

The support staff assigned to the Commission will digitally record all meetings, make recordings
available to the public within three (3) business days of a Commission meeting, prepare written
minutes, and post all agendas and meeting activities in accordance with the Utah Open and Public
Meetings Act, Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-201, et seq.

   V.       OFFICERS

       Section 1. Election of Officers: As the first order of business at the first regularly
 scheduled meeting of each year, the Commission will elect a Chair and Vice Chair from
 among its regular Members by a majority vote of the present Members. All election
 practices will comply with Robert's Rules of Order.

       Section 2. Officer Terms: Officers will serve a term of one (1) year and may serve
 an unlimited number of consecutive terms. No Member may serve in an office beyond their
 Commission appointment term.

         Section 3. Officers Duties:

         1. Chair: The Chair will:

              a. Serve as the Presiding Officer of the Commission;

              b. Implement these Rules;

              c. Coordinate with support staff to develop and provide an agenda for
                   each public meeting, and to provide timely reports and other relevant
                   information to the Commission;

              d. Execute all official documents and letters of the Commission; and

              e.   Identify and bring before the Commission such policy matters as are
                   within the purview of the Commission

         2. Vice Chair: The Vice Chair will:

              a. Assist the Chair in all necessary capacities;


                                                 2
           b. Preside at Commission meetings and otherwise serve as the Chair Pro Tem in the
               absence of the Chair.

            c. Assume the duties and responsibilities for the Chair in all instances where
               the Chair is not available or unable to carry out the duties and
               responsibilities; and

           d. Identify and bring before the Commission such policy matters as are
               within the purview of the Commission.

      Section 4. Chair Pro Tem: In the absence or incapacity of both the Chair and the Vice
Chair for a Commission meeting, the Regular Members present at the meeting will elect a
Chair Pro Tem to serve as Presiding Officer only for that meeting. Alternate Members may
not serve as Chair Pro Tem.

    IV.     COMMISSION MEETINGS

     Section l. Quorum: A Quorum will consist of three (3) of the current appointed Members
and will be necessary to conduct any business of the Commission.

      Section 2. Adherence to County, State, and Federal Law: All Commission
meetings will adhere to the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-
201, et seq., and the Government Records Access Management Act (GRAMA), Utah Code
Ann. § 63G-2-201, et seq.

    Section 3. Regular Meetings: Regular meeting will be publicly noticed and held each
month in accordance with state law and these Rules.

     Section 4. Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Chair or by
support staff, with the consent of the Chair, at any time, provided that a preferred seventy-
two (72) hours' notice and a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours' notice is given to each
Member in accordance with State Law and these Rules.

      Section 5. Meeting Cancellation: Notice of cancellation of a meeting will be posted
in accordance with state law and these Rules. If a meeting is rescheduled the new meeting
time, date, and location will be posted in accordance with state law.

     Section 6. Agenda: Support staff will create the agenda for each Commission meeting
under the direction of the Chair. Any Member may request the Chair to include an item in the
agenda and the Chair will ensure that all such requests are included in the agenda but may
exclude requested agenda items that fall outside of the Commission’s jurisdiction or authority.
Each agenda must include the review and approval of the minutes for the prior Commission
meeting and must allow for public comment. Support staff will send the agenda and any related
meeting materials to the Commission as soon as reasonably practicable but not later than
twenty-four (24) hours before a Commission meeting.

     Section 7. Notice of Meetings: Notice for all Commission meetings will be provided as
follows in accordance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code Ann. § 52-
4-201, et seq.
                                               3
       1. Notice of Regular Meeting Schedule: The Commission will provide public notice at
          least once each year of its meeting regular meeting schedule for that year. The notice
          will specify the date, time, and place of the Commission’s regular meetings.

       2. Content of Notices: The notice for all Commission meetings, including regular
          meetings, special meetings, workshops, and executive sessions in which the quorum is
          present, will include the agenda, including the date, time, and place of the meeting.

       3. Posting of Notice for Regular and Special Meetings: The Commission will provide
          notice of all regular and special meetings at least 24 hours prior to the meeting by:

           i. Posting the notice at the building where the meeting will be held;

           ii. Posting the notice on the Utah Public Notice Website; and

           iii. Providing the notice to at least one newspaper of general jurisdiction within the
                geographic jurisdiction of the Township or a local media correspondent.

       4. Notice for Public Hearings: The Council will provide notice of any required public
          hearing in accordance with state law, which typically requires ten (10) days’ notice for
          public hearings before the Commission.

     V.      SUBCOMMITTEES

 The Chair may create subcommittees as deemed necessary. Members of subcommittees
 will be Commission Members.

     VI.     MEETING AND HEARING PROCEDURES

       Section 1. Conduct of Meeting: The Commission will conduct a business meeting as a
component of each regularly scheduled meeting. The Commission, by a majority vote, may
adjust the scheduled time and order of the agenda as needed. Members of the public may
attend such meetings, but will only participate and provide comments during designated
public comment periods unless the Chair directs otherwise.

       Section 2. Order of Business: The Chair will preside over each Commission meeting
and will conduct each meeting in accordance with the posted agenda, provided that the Chair,
by a majority vote of the Commission, may consider matters out of the agenda order.

        Section 3. Motions: Any matter that requires a Commission decision will be brought
before the Commission by motion. The Chair will initiate the motion by either: (1) inviting
Members to make a potion; (2) suggesting a motion to the Commission; (3) making the motion;
or (4) reading a motion suggested by support staff. The Chair has the same right as other
Commission members to make a motion but should only do so when the Chair desires to make a
motion and is convinced that no other member of the Council desires to make the motion.
Alternates may make motions and second motions only if they are serving as a Regular Member
for the meeting.

                                                4
       Section 4. Voting: A majority vote by the present Members in favor of a motion will
carry a motion. Following a seconded motion, the support staff may ask each Member to
verbally pronounce their name and vote and will record each individual vote in the written
minutes as an "aye" or "nay".

      Section 5. Procedures for Public Hearings:

      1. Public Hearing Procedure for Applications: The Commission will adhere to the
         following procedures for public hearings:

          i. Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent
             at any meeting of the Commission;

          ii. Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure at a public hearing on an
              application will be:

                  a. Presentation of the application by support staff, including its
                     recommendations and a summary of pertinent written comments and
                     reports concerning the application;

                  b. The applicant's presentation, not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes;

                  c. Any group representing the area in which the subject property is
                     located, not to exceed five (5) minutes;

                  d. Persons other than the applicant in favor of, or not opposed lo, the
                     application, not to exceed three (3) minutes per person;

                  e. Persons opposing the application, in whole or in part, not to exceed
                     three (3) minutes per person;

                  f. Rebuttal by the applicant as necessary to respond lo new issues raised
                     by other parties, not to exceed five (5) minutes;

                  g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

      2. Conduct at Public Hearings:

           i.   Each speaker, before talking, will give his or her name and address;

          ii.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time;

         iii.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application
                bearing on the desirability or undesirability of the application;

         iv.    The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been
                presented and acknowledge that it has been noted in the public record;

          v.    No personal attacks will be indulged in by either side, and such action will be
                                               5
                sufficient cause for stopping the speaker from proceeding;

          vi.   No applause or public outbursts will be permitted; and

       vii.     The Chair or support staff may request police support to remove offending
                individuals who refuse to abide by these rules.

     3. Discussion and Vote: After all presentations have been made, the Chair may
        request or entertain a motion to close the public hearing. Members may continue
        to discuss the application among themselves. Following this discussion on the
        application, a motion must be made and seconded, which may include;
        approval, approval with conditions, denial, a recommendation to the Copperton
        Metro Township Council (as appropriate), or continuation of the item to a
        future meeting for decision.

     4. Decisions: A decision of the Commission on an application will be documented in
        writing by the Supporting Agency staff and will include reasons for the decision.
        The written decision will be posted in accordance with state law, the Copperton
        Metro Township Code, and any applicable Copperton Metro Township policies.

   VII.      ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

    Section 1. Compliance: All Members will abide by the Utah Code and annually
complete any necessary volunteer forms, documents, and training.

       Section 2. Recusal: Members are encouraged to review Section 2.07.201
(Copperton Metro Township Ethics Code, Conflict of Interest), and Chapter 2.70 of
Copperton Metro Township Ordinance (Quasi-Judicial Functions Standards of
Conduct) for complete requirements. A member of the Commission who has a
restricted conflict of interest as defined by the Copperton Metro Township Code will
declare the conflict of interest and recuse themselves from the meeting. Members,
who have unrestricted conflicts of interest as defined in Copperton Metro Township
Code, will declare the conflict of interest at the meeting, and may recuse themselves,
but are not required to do so.

      Section 3. Ex Parte Communications: No member of the Commission will
have any ex parte discussion regarding any administrative land use application before
the Commission. Ex parte communication means any communication with interested
parties of a land use application coming before the Commission prior to the
Commission reaching a final decision.

   VII.      AMENDMENTS AND ADOPTION

The Commission may recommend approval and/or amendments of these Rules to the
Copperton Metro Township Council. All amendments must be consistent with all other
Copperton Metro Township ordinances and policies.




                                             6
