                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                     Copperton Planning Commission
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                     Tuesday, June 13, 2023 6:00 P.M.
Location
BINGHAM CANYON LIONS CLUB
8725 WEST HILLCREST STREET
COPPERTON, 84006

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and MSD staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING


    1) Approval of the April 11, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                   PUBLIC HEARINGS(S)

REZ2023-000840 - Charles Adderley is requesting a rezone to change his property’s zoning
classification from the C-2 (Commercial Zone) to NMU (Neighborhood Mixed Use Zone).
Acreage: 0.92. Location: 8580 West State Highway. Planner: Jeffrey Miller (Motion/Voting)


                                          ADJOURN




June 13, 2023                               Page 1 of 1       AGENDA – COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



June 13, 2023                                         Page 2 of 2         AGENDA – COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
                                             Planning and Development Services
                                             2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                             Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                          MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                COPPERTON PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                     Tuesday, April 11, 2023 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 26 minutes                          *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 1                                      found on the State website, or from MSD Planning &
                                                                       Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Breinholt

                                                 ATTENDANCE
                                 Public     Business                                                        Public      Business
         Commissioners                                 Absent               Planning Staff / DA
                                  Mtg         Mtg                                                            Mtg          Mtg
          Ranuta Alder             x           x
                                                                               Wendy Gurr                      x            x
     Ryan Taylor (Vice Chair)      x           x
                                                                             Curtis Woodward                   x            x
      Joel Breinholt (Chair)       x           x
                                                                              Nathan Bracken                   x            x




                                              BUSINESS MEETING

                                           Meeting began at – 6:03 p.m.
    1) Approval of the January 10, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve the January 10, 2023 Planning Commissioner Meeting Minutes as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Breinholt
             2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)

        No other business items to discuss.

                                               PUBLIC HEARING
                                           Hearings began at – 6:04 p.m.

OAM2022-000737 – Public Hearing by the Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission on the
proposal to repeal and replace Copperton’s land use ordinances, Title 18 Subdivisions, and Title 19 Zoning.
The draft ordinances have been previously presented to the planning commission for discussion purposes,
with revisions having been made as a result of input received from various reviewing agencies. These
ordinances are on the agenda for formal recommendation by the planning commission to the Copperton
Metro Township Council. Planners: Curtis Woodward and Kayla Mauldin (Motion/Voting)


Copperton Planning Commission – April 11, 2023 – Meeting Summary                                                     Page 1 of 2
The Planning Commission will act on the proposed Public Hearing items after taking comments from the public
during their respective public hearings. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commissions’
rules of conduct. Public comments will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning Supervisor Curtis Woodward provided an analysis
of the ordinance amendment.

Mr. Woodward provided the additional changes to Title 18 and 19 not previously provided.

Commissioners, Counsel, and staff had a brief discussion regarding 19.5.050 landscape setback,
annexations and protests and narrowing the definition down, acreage requirements, water use and
commercial development, HB 406, zoning maps and character areas, pigeons. Use consistent language of
Domestic fowl in Title 8, animal licensing, lot square footage, animal units, outdoor storage units, family
food production prohibited date after adoption date.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

No one from the public was present to speak.

                               PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend approval to the Copperton Council of file # OAM2022-000737 to repeal and
replace Copperton’s land use ordinances, Title 18 Subdivisions, and Title 19 Zoning to the Copperton
Council with recommended changes and amendments as provided below.
1. Remove the larger animals, cows, sheep, and goats, from the definition of “Family Food
Production.”
2. Amend Table 19.28.020 - Uses Allowed in Single Family Residential Zones to clarify the “Animals and
Fowl for family food production established after May 1, 2023” is not allowed (making existing properties
with those listed animals nonconforming uses).
       Motion by: Commissioner Breinholt
       2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor

Commissioner Breinholt adjourned.

                                         MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 7:29 p.m.




Copperton Planning Commission – April 11, 2023 – Meeting Summary                                   Page 2 of 2
              Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District - Planning & Development Services
                 2001 S. State Street #N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190 • (385) 468-6700


                                             File # REZ2023-000840


                    REZONE SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATION

Public Body: Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission
Meeting Date: June 13, 2023
Parcel ID: 26-08-376-001-0000
Acreage: 0.92 Acres
Current Zone: C-2 (Commercial Zone)
Proposed Zone: NMU (Neighborhood Mixed-Use)
Property Address: 8580 West State Highway
Request: Rezone from C-2 (Commercial Zone) to NMU (Neighborhood Mixed-Use).
Planner: Jeff Miller
Applicant Name: Charles Adderley


                                      PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Charles Adderley is requesting a recommendation of approval for a proposed rezone from the C-2 (Commercial
Zone) to the NMU (Neighborhood Mixed-Use) Zone for a parcel 0.92 acres in size.

Currently, the subject parcel has not been used for commercial purposes and is mostly vacant other than two
existing storage sheds on the property.

If the property is successfully rezoned to the NMU Zone, the property owner anticipates continuing to use the
existing storage sheds, with repairs and upgrades as necessary until such time as they are ready to construct a
single-family residential home on the property. With the NMU Zone, there is the potential that the property could
also be used for small-scale…”commercial uses to serve the daily needs of area residents”.

The NMU Zone was adopted by the Copperton Metro Township Council on Tuesday, June 6, 2023, as part of the
comprehensive updates to Title 18 (Subdivisions) and Title 19 (Zoning).




*Continued on the next page.
Request: Rezone from C-2 (Commercial Zone) to NMU (Neighborhood Mixed-Use).


                       SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION (see attached map)
                                                                                           The subject property is
                                                                                           located at the western
                                                                                           end of a large group of
                                                                                           commercially        zoned
                                                                                           parcels within Copperton
                                                                                           in the C-2 Zone. This
                                                                                           commercial      area     is
                                                                                           located on the north side
                                                                                           of State Highway (which
                                                                                           is the main road that
                                                                                           goes              through
                                                                                           Copperton). To the north
                                                                                           of the subject property is
                                                                                           a large area of parcels
                                                                                           owned by Kennecott
                                                                                           Copper in either the A-2
                                                                                           (Agricultural) or M-2
                                                                                           (Industrial) Zones. To the
                                                                                           southeast and south is a
large area of parcels also owned by Kennecott Copper in either the M-1 or M-2 (Industrial) Zones. To the southwest
is the rest of Copperton located within the R-1-6, R-1-8, R-2-8 or R-2-6.5 (Residential) Zones.


                              GENERAL PLAN CONSIDERATIONS
The Copperton General Plan was adopted in 2020. In this plan, small-scale, neighborhood commercial uses were
envisioned as an opportunity within Copperton. It is anticipated that the commercial area where the subject
property is located will “continue to be Copperton’s commercial hub”, and “in addition to the current commercial
properties…(future) development can provide amenities in a quiet, family-friendly, small-scale, mixed-use area”.

The general plan anticipates that the current commercial area within Copperton could be rezoned to a Mixed-Use
Zone, in order, “to support commercial, neighborhood commercial, live-work spaces, complete streets and
community spaces”. The general plan envisions that “Small-scale, family-friendly Neighborhood Commercial”, could
include commercial uses, “such as: arts and crafting shops and studios, bakeries, smoothie places, ice cream parlors,
insurance offices, bicycle repair shops, & book and hobby shops”.


                                       ZONE CONSIDERATIONS
        Requirement                     Existing Zone (C-2)                       Proposed Zone (NMU)
  Height                          75-feet, no more than six stories.       Minimum: 15 feet, Maximum: 35 feet.
  Front Yard Setback                   15-20 feet (depends).                               10 feet.
                                 Multiple and/or Group Dwellings:
                                Minimum of 8, no less than 18 feet
  Side Yard Setback             combined. Structures over 35 feet                          5 feet.
                                in height, shall have one additional
                                foot of side yard, for each two feet



Rezone Request from C-2 to NMU.                                                                            Page 2 of 4
Request: Rezone from C-2 (Commercial Zone) to NMU (Neighborhood Mixed-Use).

                                in building height. No setback for
                                  other buildings and structures.
                              Multiple and/or Group Dwellings: 30
                              feet for main dwellings, one foot for
                               accessory buildings. When lot rears
  Rear Yard Setback                                                                      20 feet.
                                upon the side yard of a corner lot,
                                 minimum rear yard of 10 feet for
                                  other buildings and structures.
                              Multiple and/or Group Dwellings: 50
                                feet, at a distance 25 feet from the
  Lot Width                                                                                 N/A
                              front lot line. No minimum for other
                                      buildings and structures.
                                 Multiple and/or Group Dwellings:
                                 minimum of 5,000 square feet for
                                first dwelling structure, with 3,000
                                  square feet for each additional
                              separate dwelling structure, and 750
  Lot Area                                                                                  N/A
                                  additional square feet for each
                               additional dwelling unit in excess of
                                one dwelling unit in each separate
                              dwelling structure. No minimum for
                                  other buildings and structures.
                              No building or group of buildings,       No minimum lot coverage. Maximum
                              with their accessory structures, shall   building size of 5,000 square feet for non-
  Maximum Lot Coverage
                              cover more than 60% of the area of       grocery and 15,000 square feet for grocery-
                              the lot.                                 anchored.

  Compatibility with existing nearby development in terms of size, scale and height.                Yes
  Compliance with the General Plan.                                                                 Yes


                    ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
Planning Staff has not identified any issues of concern with the proposed rezone request.


                                            STAFF ANALYSIS
19.36.020 (1) – Neighborhood Mixed-Use Zone (NMU): The NMU Zone is a residential zone that allows a
small-scale, horizontal or vertical mixture of neighborhood commercial uses to serve the daily needs of area
residents. This zone is intended only for small-scale, low-impact uses, to promote a better mixture of uses close
to home and within a walkable environment.

*Please see the attached C-2 zoning code (current zone) & the proposed NMU zoning code.

If rezoned to the NMU Zone, the subject property could be seen as a transitional property between the residential
uses to the immediate west, and the commercial properties to the immediate east. Additionally, planning staff
recommended the NMU Zone, since it allows for residential uses, but preserves the possibility of small-scale
neighborhood appropriate commercial uses.



Rezone Request from C-2 to NMU.                                                                           Page 3 of 4
Request: Rezone from C-2 (Commercial Zone) to NMU (Neighborhood Mixed-Use).



                                  NEIGHBORHOOD RESPONSE
Planning Staff has not received any comments from the surrounding neighbors or general public as of the
completion of this staff report. Any comments that are received will be forwarded to the planning commission for
review and will be summarized on June 13, 2023.


                            PLANNING COMMISSION MOTION
The Planning Commission has three options with respect to this application for the requested Rezone
Request:
Option 1:      Recommend approval of the rezone request as proposed; or
Option 2:      Recommend approval of the rezone request with proposed zoning conditions.
Option 3:      Recommend denial of the rezone request.

                        CONCLUSION AND RECOMMENDATION
Planning Staff recommends that the Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission analyzes the information
contained in this report, prior to making a recommendation to the Copperton Metro Township Council on the
proposed rezone request from C-2 (Commercial) to the NMU (Neighborhood Mixed-Use) Zone.

                                                EXHIBITS
   A. Aerial Map.
   B. C-2 Zoning Code.
   C. NMU Zoning Code.




Rezone Request from C-2 to NMU.                                                                      Page 4 of 4
REZ2023-000840: Rezone from C-2 (Commercial) to NMU (Neighborhood Mixed-Use).
Parcel: 8580 West State Highway (26-08-376-001-0000)




                                                                                 A-2
                                      A-2
                                                                                                                 A-2
            A-2

                                                       A-2      Subject
                                                               Property
                                                                                               A-2

                        R-1-6                                                                                           C-2

                                                                                                           C-2
                                              R-1-6                C-2


                                                                                         C-2                                  C-2

            R-1-6
                                M-2         R-1-6                                R-2.8
                                                                                                     M-1
                                                       R-1-6
          R-1-6
                           R-1-6
                                                                                                                       M-1
                                                                         R-1-6
                                      TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




                              Chapter 19.32: Commercial Zones

19.32.010 – Purpose of Provisions.

The purpose of the commercial zones is to provide places in the municipality for a wide range of
commercial and retail trades and uses, offices, business and professional services, and other uses that
contribute to the economic stability of the community and wellbeing of its employees and residents. The
zones are intended to provide employment opportunities and expand the municipal tax base, while also
encouraging sustainable development and providing an attractive transition between residential and non-
residential uses.

19.32.020 – Establishment of Commercial Zones.

To anticipate and respond to the changing needs of our community, implement the vision of the adopted
General Plan, and strengthen Copperton’s tax base, the following zones are established:

A. Commercial Zone – General Commercial (C-1): The C-1 Zone is intended to provide a wide range of
   commercial uses designed to serve neighborhood needs. The commercial use may be freestanding or
   integrated in a small-scale center. Development is oriented to the street to encourage a pedestrian
   relationship and buildings are placed to allow interconnected walkways and shared site accesses for
   increased convenience, accessibility, and enhanced safety for pedestrians. Development includes
   elements and façades at the pedestrian level and achieves a sense of human scale and creates visual
   interest at eye-level.

B. Commercial Zone – Shopping Center Commercial (C-2): The C-2 Zone is intended to provide retail uses,
   service-oriented businesses, offices, and restaurants in an integrated center. Each center shares
   common architecture, access, parking, signage, and landscape design. Each center typically includes
   three (3) or more acres and provides regional or community level destination shopping which
   incorporates a design that enhances pedestrian orientation within the center.

19.32.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.

A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
   zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions, and
   exceptions set forth in this Title.
B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a combination
   of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.32.030, the more restrictive provisions of
   this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject to conditional use (“C”)
   approval and the other portion is subject only to permitted use (“P) review, the entire development
   shall be reviewed and approved by the conditional use process.
C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
    1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional restrictions
       and approval processes as provided in this Title.



                                                                                                      117
                                  TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or potential
   impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses, incompatibility in some
   areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or conditions are required to mitigate
   the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning Commission is the land use authority for uses
   with this designation.
3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified in Table
   19.32.030 is prohibited in this zone.
                     Table 19.32.030 - Uses Allowed in Commercial Zones.
    Use Categories
    Retail and Service:                                                           C-1     C-2
    Child Care Center                                                              P       P
    Commercial Plant Nursery                                                       P       P
    Financial Institution                                                          P       P
    Kennel, Commercial                                                             P       P
    Laundry Cleaning, Automatic Self-Help and/or Drop Off                          P       P
    Liquor and/or Wine Store and Package Agency                                    P       P
    Mobile Store                                                                   P       P
    Personal Care Services                                                         P       P
    Personal Instruction Services                                                  P       P
    Reiki                                                                          X       P
    Retail and Service Commercial                                                  P       P
    Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced On-Site            P       P
    Retail Tobacco Specialty Business                                              X       P
    Self-Service Fuel Station                                                      X       P
    Shopping Center                                                                X       C
    Vehicle and Equipment Repair, Minor                                            P       P
    Vehicle Rental                                                                 P       P
    Food and Drink:                                                              C-1      C-2
    Breweries and Distilleries in association with a Restaurant                    P       P
    Food truck / mobile restaurant / food cart                                     P       P
    Restaurant, Fast Food                                                          X       P
    Restaurant, Sit-Down with or Without Alcohol                                   P       P
    Lodging:                                                                     C-1      C-2
    Bed and Breakfast Inn                                                          P       P
    Office:                                                                      C-1      C-2
    Office, Medical                                                                P       P
    Recreational:                                                                C-1      C-2
    Athletic Clubs                                                                 P       P
    Commercial Recreation                                                          P       P
    Recreation Facility, Commercial                                                P       P

                                                                                                    118
                                      TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




        Recreation Facility, Public                                               P       P
        Residential Uses:                                                       C-1      C-2
        Planned Unit Development, subject to Chapter 19.18                        C       C
        Institutional Uses:                                                     C-1      C-2
        Animal Control or Rescue Facility                                         P       P
        Animal Hospital or Clinic                                                 P        P
        Animal Hospital or Clinic with Outdoor Holding Facilities                 X        P
        Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or other religious
        buildings                                                                 P        P
        Libraries                                                                 P        P
        Parks/Open Space                                                          P        P
        Public Uses                                                               P       P
        Public Utilities, Major                                                   C       C
        Public Utilities, Minor                                                   P       P
        Schools, Public                                                           P       P
        Schools, Private/Charter                                                  C       C
        Specialty:                                                              C-1      C-2
        Crematorium                                                               X       P
        Mortuary or Funeral Home                                                  X       P
        Nursing Home, Convalescent Care Center                                    P       P
        Self Storage Facility                                                     P       P
        Accessory Uses:                                                         C-1      C-2
        Accessory Outside Storage                                                 X       C
        Home Occupation, subject to chapter 19.42.140                             P       P
        Household Pets, not including kennels                                     P       P
        Drive-Thru and Drive-Up Facilities appurtenant to a permitted use         X       P
        Outdoor dining appurtenant to a permitted restaurant use                  P       P
        Sidewalk Displays and Sidewalk Cafes appurtenant to a permitted use       P       P
        Temporary buildings subject to 19.42                                      P       P
        Nonconforming Uses:                                                     C-1      C-2
        Pre-Existing Lot                                                          P       P
        Pre-Existing Structure                                                    P       P
        Pre-Existing Use                                                          P       P


19.32.040 – Lot and Area Standards.

Any development in the C-1 and C-2 Zones shall comply with the lot and project area standards shown in
Table 19.32.040 and all other applicable standards in this Title.




                                                                                                  119
                                       TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




                         Table 19.32.040 - Required Yards and Setbacks.
 Lot and Area Standards            C-1                                C-2
 Minimum Project Area              None                               3 acres
 Minimum Lot Size                  There is no minimum lot size required in the Commercial Zones.
 Minimum Lot Width and Frontage No minimum lot width is required for lots in Commercial Zones.
                                   Lots not fronting on a street shall be accessible to the public via
                                   a recorded easement or right-of-way.


19.32.050 – Site Standards.

The following site standards shall apply in the C-1 and C-2 Zones:

A. Setbacks. A setback standard frames the street spatially and encourages a consistent building wall
   along street edges. A parking setback enhances pedestrian safety and comfort and reduces the visual
   prominence of automobiles as viewed from streets, building entrances, and sidewalks. See Table
   19.32.050 for setback requirements.


                                     Table 19.32.050 – Site Standards.
 Setback Standards                   C-1                             C-2
 Front Yard Setback, Major           20' landscaped setback from     30' landscaped setback from
 Street                              back of sidewalk                public right of way
 Front Yard Setback, Minor           10' landscaped setback from     15' landscaped setback from back
 Street or Drive                     back of curb                    of curb
 Side Yard Setback – Corner Lots     Same as the front yard setback.
 Build-to-Line                       The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent
                                     (50%) of the adjacent façade shall be built within three feet (3') of
                                     the build-to-line. A side yard, corner lot setback is also a build-to-
                                     line.
 Side Yard Setback – Interior        No setback is required if sharing a common wall. 8’ setback to
 Lots                                property line or 16’ between buildings if building pads are used. 20’
                                     landscaped buffer required to separate residential uses from
                                     commercial uses.
 Rear Yard Setback                   10’ setback to property line or 20’ between buildings if building
                                     pads are used. 20’ Landscaped buffer required to separate
                                     residential uses from commercial uses.


B. Location and Orientation of Buildings. Structures frame streets spatially by being constructed at the
   build-to-line. Buildings shall be sited to face the street with parking lots on the side or rear. At street
   or drive intersections the buildings shall be located directly on the corner with parking in the rear. At
   least fifty percent (50%) of the adjacent façade shall be built within three feet (3’) of the build-to-line.


                                                                                                           120
                                       TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




C. Build-to-Line Exceptions. The following exceptions apply to build-to-line requirements:

    1. Any big box development may have parking in front, provided other commercial pad sites are
       proposed along the frontage that would comply with the build-to-line requirements. The
       other commercial pad sites shall create at least forty percent (40%) building street frontage
       along the width of the project area if combined with public plazas or courtyards; and

    2. Drive-through windows shall be located at the side or rear of buildings. A single drive aisle
       may be located between the building and the street so long as its width does not exceed
       twelve feet (12’), any pedestrian crossings across it are clearly delineated with special paving
       treatments, parking spaces do not occur off of it, and a low wall, railing with landscaping, or
       a continuous hedge at least three feet (3’) high exists between stacked cars and the sidewalk.
       If a drive-through is located between the building and the street, the front setback/build-to-
       line shall be twelve feet (12’) farther from the back of sidewalk or public right of way.

D. Sidewalks or Trails. Any building front entryway shall have a continuous sidewalk to the street
   sidewalk. A sidewalk at least five feet (5’) wide is required along the entire front of the lot or project
   area. A six foot (6’) wide park strip shall be installed between the street and the sidewalk as a
   pedestrian buffer. No fencing that is parallel to any sidewalk may be within two feet (2’) of the edge
   of the sidewalk.

E. Outdoor Dining. If outdoor dining is allowed, the patio or dining area may encroach on up to ten feet
   (10’) of the required landscaped setback.

F. Utilities. Any overhead utility shall be placed underground unless the applicable utility company
   determines it is infeasible.

G. Screening. Any garbage dumpster shall be enclosed by a masonry wall or architectural design with
   materials that are consistent with the building. The enclosure gate shall be metal and accessible to
   service vehicles. The enclosure wall and gate shall be a minimum of twelve inches (12”) higher than
   the trash receptacle bin. Service areas, mechanical equipment, and meters shall be completely
   screened from the street.

H. Site Furnishings. The developer or builder is responsible for providing site furnishings as required in
   this document. All site furnishings shall be specified on the plans.

    1. Benches. Each project shall provide one (1) outdoor bench per small building (buildings twenty
       thousand square feet (20,000 sq. ft.) or smaller) and two (2) outdoor benches for larger buildings
       (greater than twenty thousand square feet (20,000 sq. ft.)). Benches are encouraged in places
       where people congregate and at pedestrian intersections and nodes. Benches shall be durable
       and permanently installed on a hardscape surface (concrete, pavers, etc.);

    2. Bike Racks. Bike racks shall be provided and installed at a minimum of three (3) bike stalls per fifty
       (50) vehicle parking stalls within each development (minimum of three (3) bike rack stalls). Bike
       racks should be located near the entrance to the building and visible from the street or drive. Bike
       racks shall be durable and permanently installed and maintained over a hardscape surface; and


                                                                                                          121
                                       TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




   3. Trash and Recycle Receptacles. At least one (1) trash receptacle and one (1) recycling receptacle
      shall be provided at a minimum of one (1) at each public entrance to commercial buildings.

19.32.060 – Architectural Standards.

Any new development shall present an attractive, coordinated streetscape, incorporate architectural and
site design elements appropriate to a pedestrian scale and provide for the safety and convenience of
pedestrians. All new development shall comply with the following architectural standards:

A. General Design Standards: The following building design requirements shall apply in the C-1 and C-2
   Zones:

   1. Walls. No more than three (3) materials may be used for primary wall surfaces. Exterior finishes
      shall be of traditional, time- and weather-tested techniques. Retaining and screening walls shall
      be of materials complementary to the building’s materials. Buildings shall use a cohesive palette
      of colors which complement Copperton’s nearby buildings. Without limiting the use of color, large
      areas of wall shall be subdued in color and not reflective. Intense colors should be used as accent
      only.

   2. Building Heights. Buildings should provide a sense of street enclosure for pedestrians in more
      urban environments. New commercial buildings adjacent to existing neighborhoods shall step-
      down in height to help minimize the visual impact to residential areas. See Table 19.32.060A for
      requirements.

   3. Transparency. The intent of transparency standards is to promote economic activity by creating
      active street walls and visual interest for pedestrians at the ground-level. They also serve to
      promote personal and property safety by introducing more “eyes on the street” or natural
      surveillance of the public right-of-way and building interiors. See Table 19.32.060A for
      requirements.

                        Table 19.32.060A - Commercial Development Standards.
      Standard                         C-1                                        C-2
 Building Height      Minimum: No primary building          Minimum: No primary building within this
                      within this zone may be erected to zone may be erected to a height less than
                      a height less than fifteen feet (15’) fifteen feet (15’) above grade.
                      above grade.
                                                            Maximum: No building within this zone
                      Maximum: No building within this may exceed thirty-five feet (35') above
                      zone may exceed thirty-five feet      grade.
                      (35') above grade.
 Step-down Height     Within one hundred feet (100’) of sites zoned for single family residential, the
 Adjacent to          following standards apply:
 Residential Areas.
                      a. On the portion of the site within one hundred feet (100’) of a site zoned R-1,
                         R-2, R-4 no structure or portion thereof may exceed thirty feet (30’) in
                         height.
 Transparency         Ground Floor (frontage) 30%          Ground Floor (frontage) 30%


                                                                                                     122
                                  TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




                  Ground Floor (exposed sides) 30%       Upper Floors (frontage) 20%
                  Upper Floors (frontage) 20%

4. Exterior Structure Standards: All exterior walls of all structures shall be constructed in compliance
   with the following:

5. Materials. All buildings shall use one or more of the following durable materials as significant
   finish: architectural precast concrete, architecturally treated concrete masonry units, brick
   cladding, natural and cast stone, architectural metals, and glazing. Architectural site-cast concrete
   may be allowed if designed, articulated, and colored for a finished appearance on all buildings. At
   least fifty percent (50%) of all buildings visible from an arterial or collector street shall be
   composed of brick, stone, architecturally treated CMU, architectural precast concrete,
   architectural metals, and/or glazing.

6. Exterior Insulation and Finish System (EIFS)/Stucco. The design and application of EIFS or synthetic
   stucco are expected to be of a high enough quality to allow for crisp detailing and substantial
   relief. The use of EIFS on ground floor walls shall be limited to the surface area three feet (3’) or
   more above finished grade. The wall area from finished grade to where the use of EIFS begins
   shall be clad by a hard, durable material such as brick, stone, architectural precast concrete, or
   architecturally treated concrete masonry units.

7. Detail and Finish. Building façades that face the street but do not have pedestrian entries shall be
   composed of high-quality materials such as brick or stone and shall provide variety and interest
   in the façade through the introduction of such elements as pilasters, recessed or protruding bays,
   changes in materials and/or colors, building lighting elements, display windows with products or
   product graphics, transparent windows or clerestories, and well-designed signs and graphics.

8. Surface Variation. Continuous building wall surfaces shall be relieved with significant variations of
   wall planes or overhangs that create shadow areas and add visual interest. Variations should
   result from significant dimensional changes in plane, color, or detail as accomplished by such
   devices as protruding bays, recessed entries, upper-level step-backs, arcades, offsets in the
   general plane of the façade, changes in materials or color, bay windows, vestibules, porches,
   balconies, exterior shading devices, nonretractable canopies or awnings, projecting cornices, or
   eaves.

9. Vertical Separation and Human Scale. Buildings in excess of two (2) stories in height shall exhibit
   architectural detailing that establishes a vertical separation between lower and upper stories. This
   may be accomplished by a mid-façade cornice or trim, a change in material, style or color, a façade
   step-back or roof pitch with dormer windows, or other methods. Buildings in excess of two (2)
   stories shall also exhibit architecture design that incorporates the human scale, which is specific
   architecture features below 10 feet (10’).

10. Façade Features. All large retail building façades visible from public streets shall include
    architectural treatments that add detail, character, and reduce the appearance of massive blank
    walls. Techniques such as color and material changes, expression of structure, shifts in plane,
    offsets and projections, belt courses, reveals, pilasters, windows, doors, arcades, canopies, and

                                                                                                    123
                                  TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




    other similar elements may achieve this standard. Opaque storefront security closures (rolling
    doors, etc.) are not allowed.

11. Entrances. The intent of entrance standards is to provide direct and comfortable access to
    businesses for pedestrians. Entrances on public streets are particularly important to promote
    pedestrian traffic and activities on the sidewalks. The following standards apply to the entrances
    of all structures:

    a. Street front entrances shall be developed on all new buildings. An unobstructed sidewalk
       connection from the door location shall be provided to connect to the public sidewalk. Entry
       doors shall be located on the front façade or be placed within three feet (3’) of the front
       façade;

    b. Each primary public entry shall be architecturally emphasized so that pedestrians can easily
       find it; and

    c. Weather protection features such as awnings, canopies, doors inset by at least three feet (3’),
       or arcades shall be provided at all customer entrances.

12. Corner Buildings. Special attention shall be given to corner buildings that are highly visible, that
    may serve as landmarks, and provide a sense of enclosure at intersections. Special attention can
    be achieved by architecture, landscape, and public place.




                                                                                                    124
                                       TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




                                CHAPTER 19.36: Mixed-Use Zone

19.36.010 – Purpose of Provisions.

The mixed-use zones are intended for areas within the community where a combination of residential,
commercial, civic, and other uses is desirable to strengthen local tax base and employment opportunities,
provide diverse housing types, create gathering places, and connect businesses with nearby customers.

19.36.020 – Establishment of Mixed-Use Zone.

    1. Establishment of Mixed-Use Zone: To anticipate and respond to the changing needs of the
       municipality and implement mixed-use and livability concepts included in the adopted General
       Plan, Copperton establishes the following zone:

            1. Neighborhood Mixed Use Zone (NMU): The NMU Zone is a residential zone that allows a
               small-scale, horizontal or vertical mixture of neighborhood commercial uses to serve the
               daily needs of area residents. This zone is intended only for small-scale, low-impact uses,
               to promote a better mixture of uses close to home and within a walkable environment.
19.36.030 – Schedule of Permitted Uses.

    A. Schedule of Permitted Uses. The specific uses listed in the following schedule are permitted in the
       zones as indicated, subject to the general provisions, special conditions, additional restrictions,
       and exceptions set forth in this Title.
    B. Procedure for Multiple Uses (Combination of Uses). If a development proposal involves a
       combination of uses other than accessory uses as identified in Table 19.36.030, the more
       restrictive provisions of this Title shall apply. For example, if a portion of a development is subject
       to conditional use (“C”) approval and the other portion is subject only to permitted use (“P)
       review, the entire development shall be reviewed and approved through the conditional use
       process.
    C. Abbreviations. The abbreviations used in the schedule mean:
            1. P = Permitted Use. This use is allowed in the zone but may be subject to additional
               restrictions and approval processes as provided in this Title.
            2. C = Conditional Use. This use is conditional because of the unique characteristics or
               potential impacts on the municipality, surrounding neighbors, or adjacent uses,
               incompatibility in some areas of the zone, or compatibility only if special provisions or
               conditions are required to mitigate the detrimental impacts of the use. The Planning
               Commission is the land use authority for uses with this designation.
            3. X = Prohibited Use. This use is prohibited in this zone. Any use not specifically identified
               in Table 19.36.030 is prohibited in this zone.




                                                                                                          136
                          TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




                Table 19.36.030 – Uses allowed in the NMU Zone.
                               Use Categories                         NMU
Residential Uses:
Accessory Dwelling Unit, Detached or Internal                          P
Dwelling, Single Family                                                P
Dwelling, Single Family Attached                                       P
Dwelling, Three- and Four-Family                                       P
Dwelling, Two-Family (Duplex)                                          P
Retail and Service:
Bank, Credit Union, or Other Financial Institution                     P
Child or Adult Care Facility                                           P
Personal Care Services                                                 P
Personal Instruction Services                                          P
Post Office                                                            P
Retail Sales                                                           P
Retail Shops or Galleries where Primary Product is Produced On-Site    P
Food and Drink:
Bars and Clubs                                                         X
Breweries and Distilleries, with or without restaurant                 X
Food Truck, Mobile Restaurant, Food Cart                               X
Restaurant, Fast Food                                                  P
Restaurant, Sit Down with or without Alcohol                           P
Lodging:
Bed and Breakfast                                                      P
Hotel/Motel                                                            X
Office:
Offices – General, Professional, and Trade Services                    P
Recreational:
Commercial Recreation and Entertainment, Indoor                        X
Outdoor Recreation, Small Scale                                        X
Theatres and Concert Halls (Indoor)                                    X


                                                                            137
                                    TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




        Industrial Uses:
        Light or Heavy Industry                                                      X
        Institutional Uses:
        Animal Hospital or Clinic                                                    X
        Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or other religious             P
        buildings
        Community Garden                                                             P
        Educational Facility                                                         P
        Public or Quasi-Public Use                                                   P
        Public Park                                                                  P
        Specialty:
        Medical, Urgent Care, and Dental Clinic                                      X
        Mortuary or Funeral Home                                                     X
        Park and Ride                                                                X
        Parking Lot (not associated with other use)                                  X
        Accessory Uses:
        Accessory Structures, Garages, Carports, and Structures subject to           P
        19.46.
        Drive-Thru and Drive-Up Facilities                                           P
        Home Occupation, subject to 19.42.180.                                       P
        Sidewalk Displays and Sidewalk Cafes                                         P
        Nonconforming Uses:
        Pre-Existing Lot                                                             P

D. Residential Uses: In the NMU Zone, multi-family residential uses (including two-family, three-
   family, and four-family) are limited as follows.
       1. Units above a business: Residential dwelling units on the second story or above are
          permitted.
       2. Units behind a business: Residential dwelling units on the first story that are separated
          from the front lot line by a non-residential use in the same story are permitted.
       3. Units attached to a business on a multiple frontage lot: In no case may first-story dwelling
          units face onto a front lot line.
       4. In the NMU Zone, no standalone multi-family residential uses shall occur. Any multi-family
          residential use shall be combined with a non-residential use. Single-family attached and
          detached uses are not subject to the above standards.

                                                                                                  138
                                         TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




19.36.040 – Development Standards.

   A. Any development in the NMU Zone shall comply with the development standards shown in Table
      19.36.040 and any other applicable standards in this Title.
   B.     Single- and two-family residential development in the NMU Zone is exempt from the following
         requirements:
   1. Minimum and Maximum FAR;
   2. Minimum Transparency;
   3. Entry Spacing and Recess Requirements; and
   4. Articulation Requirements.
   C. Buildings in any Mixed-Use Zone shall be oriented so as to be front-facing on the public street.
   D. Exception for Historic District Contributing Buildings. A development standard in Table 19.36.050
      may be waived by the Director or designee only if the Director or designee finds that complying
      with that standard would result in a building that currently contributes to a National Historic
      District or Landmark no longer contributing to the District or Landmark designation.
                       Table 19.36.050 – Mixed Use Zones Development Standards.
                         Standard                                    NMU
        Maximum Building Size, in square feet (sq. ft.)
        Non-Grocery                                                  5,000
        Grocery-Anchored                                            15,000
        Height Limitations, in feet (ft)
        Minimum                                                       15
        Maximum                                                              35
        Ground Floor Height Minimum for
                                                                             12
        Commercial / Mixed Use Buildings Only
        Floor Area Ratio
        Maximum FAR                                                        1.5:1
        Minimum FAR                                                         NA
        Minimum Transparency Requirements 1
        First Floor / Ground Story                                          50%
        Additional Floors                                                   25%
        Entries
        Maximum distance between ground floor
                                                                             35
        entries on the primary façade, in feet (ft). 2
        Primary Façade Entries, Articulation.                                NA
        Non-primary Façade Entries                         1 entry minimum at the ground floor is
                                                            required on each non-primary façade,
                                                         excluding those with a shared common wall.
        Articulation
        Horizontal Articulation                           Structural columns or variation in façade
                                                             (depth/change in material) shall be

                                                                                                      139
                                    TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




                                               articulated at the primary façade for the full
                                                   height of the building to the cornice;
                                                           minimum 50’ spacing.
      Vertical Articulation                    Cornice/Frieze Banding is required between
                                               the second and third floors on buildings with
                                                           three or more stories.
      Roof                                                           NA
      Usable Outdoor Space, minimum requirement per unit in square feet (sq. ft) 3
      Single-Family Attached or Detached                             150
      Two-, Three-, or Four-Family                                   100


       1. Transparency: Transparency means the use of materials that allow for persons from the street
          to see into the active uses of the building. Areas covered by menus, murals, or other signage
          that prevents visibility into the active use do not count toward the required transparency,
          unless the municipality has authorized a temporary advertisement or other festive
          decoration.

       2. Entries on Corner Lots: Buildings on corner lots shall be oriented to the corner that faces on
          two public streets. Corner entries are required. Corner entries shall be angled toward the
          intersection of the two public streets in order to emphasize the corner.

       3. Usable Outdoor Space: Means outdoor space provided for the enjoyment of the tenant. The
          required outdoor space may be provided through private outdoor balconies or patios
          attached to the unit or may be combined in an outdoor community space shared by all
          residents / units.

               a. Balconies: If balconies are provided, they shall be recessed or incorporated into the
                  horizontal setback.


19.36.050 – Required Yards and Setbacks.

   A. Purpose: The purpose of the standards in this section is to create and maintain street frontages
      that are attractive, promote a walkable environment, and create sense of safety and comfort
      through appropriate scale.

   B. The minimum yard requirements for buildings within the Mixed-Use Zones are presented in Table
      19.36.050.

   C. Exception for Historic District Contributing Buildings. A lot width, yard, or setback standard in
      Table 19.36.050 may be waived by the Director or designee only if the Director or designee finds
      that complying with that standard would result in a building that currently contributes to a
      National Historic District Designation or National Historic Landmark no longer contributing to the
      District Designation or Landmark.




                                                                                                    140
                                         TITLE 19 Zoning (COPPERTON)




     D. Unless they share a common wall, where two or more primary buildings exist on a site, the
        minimum distance between primary buildings shall be twenty feet (20’).

     E. Exception for Setbacks for Common Walls. The side setback is zero feet (0’) for any building which
        shares a side common wall.

                    Table 19.36.060 – Lot Width, Yard, and Setback Requirements.
                                                                           NMU
                Minimum Lot Frontage Along Public Street, in feet (ft.)     25
                Minimum Setbacks, in feet (ft.)
                 Front Yard                                                          10
                 Side Yard, Interior                                                  5
                 Side Yard, Corner Lot                                                5
                 Rear Yard                                                           20
                Maximum Setbacks, in feet (ft.)
                 Front Yard                                                          20
                 Side Yard, Interior                                                 10
                 Side Yard, Corner Lot                                               10
                 Rear Yard                                                           60
                Minimum Distance Between Main and Accessory
                Buildings, in feet (ft.)                                              6



19.36.060 – Height Exceptions.

Exceptions to the building heights specified in Table 19.36.050 apply, in accordance with Subsection
19.46.130.H.

19.36.070 – Off Street Parking Standards.

All provisions of Chapter 19.48 shall apply to development in the NMU Zone. For developments that
combine multiple uses, parking requirements shall be calculated for each specific use according to the
criteria in Section 19.48.070. The Director or designee may authorize shared parking for combined uses if
those uses are found to operate at distinct hours of the day or night.

19.36.080 – Additional Standards.

It is the responsibility of the applicant to comply with all other standards of Title 19 and all other municipal
ordinances, including, without limitation:

A.       19.04: Definitions

B.       19.18: Planned Unit Developments

C.       19.42: Specific Use Standards


                                                                                                            141
