                                         Planning and Development Services
                                         2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                         Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                         www.pwpds.slco.org



                      Copperton Planning Commission
                                     Public Meeting Agenda
                                        **AMENDED**
                 Tuesday, September 10, 2024 6:00 P.M.

Location
BINGHAM CANYON LIONS CLUB
8725 WEST HILLCREST STREET
COPPERTON, 84006

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

  1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2024. (Motion/Voting)
  2) Approval of the June 13, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
  3) Discussion only - Changing the zoning for the old school property and changing the mixed
     use zone.
  4) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                LAND USE APPLICATION(S)
PUD2024-001214 – Dale Bennett is seeking to develop a mixed-use planned unit development
and will consist of 18 total units, 17 residential, and 1 commercial unit on ground level. Acreage:
1.53 Acres. Location: 8464 West State Highway. Zone: C-2. Planner: Gordon Bennett
(Motion/Voting)

                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)
OAM2024-001253 – Proposed amendments to the Copperton Subdivision Ordinance, Title 18 of
the Copperton Municipal Code, to comply with 2024 Utah Legislative Mandates. Presenter: Jay
Springer, Attorney; Brian Tucker, Planning Manager (Discussion/Motion)

                                           ADJOURN

September 10, 2024                          Page 1 of 2        AGENDA – COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



September 10, 2024                                    Page 1 of 1                                   AGENDA – KEARNS
                                            Planning and Development Services
                                            2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                            Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674




                                         MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                               COPPERTON PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                    Tuesday, June 13, 2023 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 13 minutes                                *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 2                                     found on the State website, or from MSD Planning &
                                                                      Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Breinholt

                                                ATTENDANCE
                                Public     Business
        Commissioners                                 Absent                                               Public      Business
                                 Mtg         Mtg                           Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                            Mtg          Mtg
         Ranuta Alder             x           x
    Ryan Taylor (Vice Chair)      x           x                                Wendy Gurr                     x            x
     Joel Breinholt (Chair)       x           x                                 Jeff Miller                   x            x
                                                                               Jay Springer                   x            x



                                             BUSINESS MEETING

                                          Meeting began at – 6:30 p.m.
    1) Approval of the April 11, 2023 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve the April 11, 2023 Planning Commissioner Meeting Minutes as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Alder
             2nd by: Commissioner Taylor
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
       No other business items to discuss.

                                              PUBLIC HEARING
                                          Hearings began at – 6:35 p.m.

REZ2023-000840 - Charles Adderley is requesting a rezone to change his property’s zoning classification
from the C-2 (Commercial Zone) to NMU (Neighborhood Mixed Use Zone). Acreage: 0.92. Location:
8580 West State Highway. Planner: Jeffrey Miller (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed Public Hearing items after taking comments from the public
during their respective public hearings. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commissions’
rules of conduct. Public comments will be limited to three minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Jeff Miller provided an analysis of the staff report.


Copperton Planning Commission – June 13, 2023 – Meeting Summary                                                     Page 1 of 2
                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Charles Adderley
Address: 8790 West Park Street
Comments: Mr. Adderley said the main reason is they are falling apart. Hoping his son could build a house
behind it, but right now doesn’t think that will go through any time soon. The commercial part will be Joel’s
kids selling lemonade outside.

Commissioner Breinholt opened for public comment.

No one from the public present to speak.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend approval of application #REZ2023-000840 Charles Adderley is requesting a
rezone to change his property’s zoning classification from the C-2 (Commercial Zone) to NMU
(Neighborhood Mixed Use Zone) to the Copperton Council as proposed.
       Motion by: Commissioner Breinholt
       2nd by: Commissioner Alder
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor


Commissioner Breinholt adjourned.

                                        MEETING ADJOURNED
                                        Time Adjourned – 6:43 p.m.




Copperton Planning Commission – June 13, 2023 – Meeting Summary                                  Page 2 of 2
Copperton Planning Commission Meeting September 10, 2024

                                       File # PUD2024-001214


          Planned Unit Development Summary and Recommendation
Request: Mixed Use Planned Unit Development

Parcel ID: 26083770100000, 26083770110000                      Current Zone: C-2

Property Owner: Willow Starwood, LLC
Applicant/Representative: Dale Bennett
Property Address: 8464 W State Highway, Copperton, UT 84006
Property Area: 1.53 Acres
Planner: Gordon Bennett



Summary of Recommendation:
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development                                  File #: PUD2024-001214



                                         PROJECT DESCRIPTION
Description of Request: The applicant, Dale Bennett, is requesting the development of a mixed-use development
planned unit development on 8464 West State Highway in Copperton. This proposed mixed-use planned unit
development will incorporate the existing apartment building to the west, Canyon Apartments. The proposed
planned unit development would consist of a total of 18 units, 17 residential units, and 1 commercial unit. The one
commercial unit is to be located on the southwestern corner of the first level of the new development, with 5
residential units located east and north of the commercial space on the ground floor, and on the entire second
and third floors.

                                         Neighborhood Character
    Surrounding Properties                          Zone                                    Land Use
  North                                          A-2 & C-2                                 Agricultural
  South                                          M-1, M-2                                Manufacturing
  East                                               C-2                                  Commercial
  West                                               C-2                                  Commercial
  General Plan Designation    Interactive District, which encourages mixed-use development (pgs. 64-67)



                          ISSUES OF CONCERN/PROPOSED MITIGATION
In order to accommodate a transition to a mixed-use area in harmony with the General Plan’s designation, staff is
recommending that the five residential units on the first floor be designated “flex space.” This would allow these
residential units easy to be converted into commercial space as appropriate based on market conditions. This
would allow the owner to provide commercial space for tenants who may be looking for a place to open shop
and/or run their business to help support local community businesses. Another issue of concern is that although
the two parcels share the same address, they are still separate parcels and therefore should be consolidated so
that the proposed mixed-use PUD itself can be integrated with the existing apartment structure to the west,
eliminating the property line immediately adjacent to the west of the proposed new building.


                                  REVIEWING AGENCIES RESPONSE
The reviewing agencies have given conceptual approval of the project. Compliance with current building,
construction, engineering, fire, health, landscape and safety standards will be verified prior to final approval.
Please refer to the agency review comments page at the bottom of this document for their detailed comments.

                                      PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS
The planning staff finds that this application meets the definition of a Mixed-Use PUD, which is defined by
Copperton Municipal Code as “developments containing both residential land use and non-residential land
use within the same integrated plan. The residential and commercial land uses shall be within the same
building unless demonstrated that all buildings in the proposed development plan are integrated into a
shared campus of common areas and amenities. The minimum area for a Mixed-Use PUD is one (1) acre.”




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                   Page 2 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development                                    File #: PUD2024-001214

We find that the proposed Mixed-Use PUD is in compliance with the following PUD development standards as
stated in Chapter 19.18.030 of the Copperton Municipal Code: (“MU” is for Mixed Use, and “All” applies to all
PUD’s)

A. Ownership (All). The property shall be in single or corporate ownership at the time of application, or the
subject of an application filed jointly by all owners of the property

Both parcels within the proposed PUD are owned by Willow Starwood, LLC., which is to our understanding a
corporate property investment company.

C. Interior Streets (RN, RC, MU). The design of public and private streets within a development shall follow
standards for roadway development adopted by the municipality. Private streets shall be subject to the
same inspections and construction standards as required for public streets. The municipality shall be
granted a utility easement for the entire interior street system in a development project. All private streets
shall be conveyed to a private association.

The staff have found there to be no private streets within the proposed mixed-use PUD. The PUD would be
accessible via the existing parking lot.

D. Garbage and Recycling (All). The development shall be designed to accommodate and efficiently
manage the collection, storage, and removal of garbage in harmony with the neighborhood so as to
minimize detrimental effects of the collection, storage, and removal on any residence within the
development or abutting neighborhoods. If dumpster enclosures are provided for the development, no
refuse dumpster or dumpster enclosure structure shall be located closer than ten feet to any perimeter
property line. Enclosure structures must have a minimum of three sides that reflect or emulate the
materials, design, and quality of the overall development. All developments shall provide recycling
services.

The site plan appears to show the garbage and recycling facilities to be located near the northeast corner of the
existing building in compliance with this requirement.

E. Parking (All). Parking shall comply with Chapter 19.48 of this Title.

Although there is no indication of garages or covered parking in the site plan, which are encouraged but not
required under Copperton’s Municipal Code, we find that the site plan meets the minimum required number of
off-street parking spots for every residential unit that is listed on the site plan, as well as the minimum number of
required parking spaces for the one commercial unit.

F. Building Materials (ID, RC, RN, MU, C). Exterior materials of a durable or resilient nature such as brick,
stone, stucco, prefinished panel, composite materials, or other materials of similar quality, hardiness, and
low maintenance characteristics shall be used. No single material may exceed fifty percent (50%) of the
surface area on street-facing facades. Other materials may be considered for soffits, or as an accent or
architectural feature. Twenty-five-year guarantee architectural shingles and/or other longer lasting roof
materials are required.

We find that the proposed mixed-use PUD meets the required standards for building materials, which will be
confirmed as construction drawings are reviewed at the time of building permit application.

G. Landscaping on Public Right-of-Way (All). With the exception of Forestry Zones, where a development
is adjacent to a public right-of-way, a permanent open space shall be required along any front, side, or
rear yard adjacent to said right-of-way. This area shall be kept free of buildings and structures (except


Conditional Use Summary                                                                                   Page 3 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development                                   File #: PUD2024-001214

fences, as per Chapter 19.50, and approved by the Planning Commission), and permanently maintained
with street trees and other landscaping, screened or protected by natural features, as per Chapter 19.50. If
such areas are the result of double frontage lot designs with inadequate access to the street, such areas
shall be landscaped as per Chapter 19.50 with a five-foot landscaped area. Aesthetic entrance features are
encouraged. Additional landscape treatments or buffers may also be required with width and landscaping
specifications as per Chapter 19.50.

We find that the proposed planned unit development meets the landscaping requirements as stated above and is
compliant with the landscaping standards as stated in Chapter 19.50 of the Copperton Municipal Code.

(19.18.030.K.2-Maximum Height) b. The height of structures in all other planned unit developments
(Commercial or mixed-use) shall conform to the applicable zone.

The C-2 zone has a maximum height of 35 feet, measured from the lowest point on original ground surface to a
point midway between the peak and the top plate of the wall. The building elevations submitted comply with the
C-2 height limit.

19.18.040 Planned Unit Development Mixed-Use

“In a PUD, vertical mixed-use is allowed in zones that allow both residential and commercial and/or office
uses, provided it meets the following requirements, in addition to the other requirements in this chapter.
For purposes of this section, vertical mixed-use means commercial or office uses sharing the same building
as residential uses. PUDs in mixed-use zones shall comply with the standards of that zone.”

The proposed PUD appears to be a vertical mixed-use development allowing both residential and commercial
development, both of which share the same building.

A. The property is abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan, or major or minor
arterial (“street”).

With being located on West State Highway, we find that the proposed mixed-use PUD is within a major arterial
(“street”).

B. Commercial uses shall only be allowed on the first floor of buildings fronting on the street. Office uses
may only be on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on the street. Entrances to the first floor of
these buildings shall front on the street. Windows shall make up at least fifty percent (50%) of street-
facing facades of these floors. These floors shall have architectural differentiation from the other floors in
the building.

The one designated commercial unit of this PUD meets the above criteria. We find that the windows make up 50%
of the street-facing façade as it features a glass door and large windows. The entrance also faces the street.

C. Parking is not allowed between the building(s) and the street.

Referring to the site plan, there appears to be no parking between the buildings and the street.

D. The front yard setback shall be fifteen feet (15’), except as provided in subsection (E), and the side and
rear yards shall be twenty feet (20’) minimum. Corner lots are deemed to have two (2) front yards.

Referring to the site plan, we find that the front yard of the PUD meets the 15’ front yard setback and 20’ rear yard
setback requirement as stated above.


Conditional Use Summary                                                                                  Page 4 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development                                 File #: PUD2024-001214



E. The front yard setback is the build-to-line. At least fifty percent (50%) of the front elevation of the
building(s) must be built within ten feet (10’) of the build-to-line or as approved by the Planning
Commission. A build-to-line is defined as the line at which construction of a building façade is to occur on
a lot, running parallel to the front property line, and ensuring a uniform (or more or less even) building
façade line on the street.

We find that the front of the property line faces the façade of the building, and therefore meets these minimum
requirements as stated above.

F. Landscaping along the street shall comply with this chapter and Chapter 19.50.

We find that the landscaping as shown in the landscaping plan complies with landscaping standards as stated in
Chapter 19.50 of the Copperton Municipal Code.

G. Signage for commercial or office uses shall be limited to signs on the building(s) that comply with
Chapter 19.52.

It appears that the applicant has no indicated plans of placing a sign on the proposed mixed-use PUD. Currently,
there are three existing signs around the existing structure: an “Entrance Only” sign, an “Exit Only” sign, and a
concrete monument sign that faces the front of the existing structure to the west.

                              PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION
The planning staff recommends approval of the proposed mixed-use planned unit development subject to the
following conditions:
1. Final plans and construction drawings shall be consistent with all of the requirements for mixed-use planned
unit developments as stated in the cited chapters and sections of the Copperton Municipal Code, including
setbacks, landscaping standards, off-street parking requirements, and structural design and height requirements.
2. The first floor residential units in the proposed new building shall be flex spaces, which will allow for the
residential units to be converted into commercial spaces.




Attachments:
Site Plan
Elevation
Landscaping Plan
Agency Review Comments




Conditional Use Summary                                                                                Page 5 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development        File #: PUD2024-001214

                                               Site Plan




Conditional Use Summary                                                    Page 6 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development        File #: PUD2024-001214

                                              Elevations




Conditional Use Summary                                                    Page 7 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development            File #: PUD2024-001214

                                            Landscaping Plan




Conditional Use Summary                                                        Page 8 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development              File #: PUD2024-001214

                                        Agency Review Comments




Conditional Use Summary                                                          Page 9 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development   File #: PUD2024-001214




Conditional Use Summary                                              Page 10 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development   File #: PUD2024-001214




Conditional Use Summary                                              Page 11 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development   File #: PUD2024-001214




Conditional Use Summary                                              Page 12 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development   File #: PUD2024-001214




Conditional Use Summary                                              Page 13 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development   File #: PUD2024-001214




Conditional Use Summary                                              Page 14 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development   File #: PUD2024-001214




Conditional Use Summary                                              Page 15 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development   File #: PUD2024-001214




Conditional Use Summary                                              Page 16 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development   File #: PUD2024-001214




Conditional Use Summary                                              Page 17 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development   File #: PUD2024-001214




Conditional Use Summary                                              Page 18 of 19
        Request: Mixed-use Planned Unit Development   File #: PUD2024-001214




Conditional Use Summary                                              Page 19 of 19
