                                        Planning and Development Services
                                        2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                        Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674
                                        www.pwpds.slco.org




             Copperton Planning Commission Workshop
                                    Public Meeting Agenda

                    Tuesday, December 10, 2024 6:00 P.M.

Location
BINGHAM CANYON LIONS CLUB
8725 WEST HILLCREST STREET
COPPERTON, 84006

 UPON REQUEST, WITH 5 WORKING DAYS NOTICE, REASONABLE ACCOMMODATIONS FOR QUALIFIED
 INDIVIDUALS MAY BE PROVIDED. PLEASE CONTACT WENDY GURR AT 385-468-6707.
 TTY USERS SHOULD CALL 711.
  The Planning Commission Public Meeting is a public forum where, depending on the agenda item,
  the Planning Commission may receive comment and recommendations from applicants, the public,
  applicable agencies and County staff regarding land use applications and other items on the
  Commission’s agenda. In addition, it is where the Planning Commission takes action on these
  items, which may include: approval, approval with conditions, denial, continuance or
  recommendation to other bodies as applicable.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING

  1) Workshop to discuss potential amendments to the zoning standards for :accessory building
     height; accessory structures in the front yard; lot coverage; home occupation prohibited
     uses; home occupation residency requirements; home occupation hours of operation and
     regulations surrounding clients, foot traffic/drop in customers and groups; home occupation
     maximum floor area regulations; regulations on industrial or commercial grade machinery
     in association with a home occupation; and the illustrations associated with Section
     19.46.110, General Site Standards. MSD Staff
  2) Other Business Items (as needed)

                                          ADJOURN




December 10, 2024                           Page 1 of 2                           AGENDA – COPPERTON
             Rules of Conduct for Planning Commission Meetings
PROCEDURE FOR PUBLIC COMMENT

1.   Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at any meeting of the
     Commission.

2.   Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

     a. The supporting agency staff will introduce the application, including staff’s recommendations and a
        summary of pertinent written comments and reports concerning the application

     b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.

     c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as applicable.

     d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will be invited to speak.

     e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be invited to speak.

     f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide concluding statements.

     g. Surrebuttals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

CONDUCT FOR APPLICANTS AND THE PUBLIC

1.   Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chair.

2.   Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.

3.   All comments should be directed to the Commissioners, not to the staff or to members of the audience.

4.   For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose a time limit, usually 3
     minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If a time limit is imposed on any member or
     spokesperson of the public, then the same time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the
     public, respectively.

5.   Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or Commission Members.

6.   Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.

7.   The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on the desirability or
     undesirability of the application.

8.   The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented and acknowledge that it
     has been noted in the public record.

9.   No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be sufficient cause for stopping the
     speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.

11. The Chair or supporting agency staff may request police support to remove offending individuals who refuse to
    abide by these rules.

12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the discussion will be limited to the
    Planning Commission and Staff.



December 10, 2024                                     Page 1 of 1                              AGENDA – COPPERTON
