           Project: Copperton Metro Township Copperton Park Master Plan RFP
                                  Date: June 12, 2020

IDENTIFICATION
       Company Name:                   Horticultural Group Inc.
       Address:                        4703 S 1175 W
                                       Taylorsville, Utah 84123
       Telephone Number:               801.980.5096
       Contact:                        Eric Behunin
                                       eric@hortgroup.com
                                       801.674.6526
       Website:                        www.hortgoup.com


ABOUT US
In 2013, Horticultural Group Inc. was founded as a consulting company with the vision to set standards of
excellence with regards to the exterior maintenance of landscapes. The Horticultural Group was established to
be the industry leader in landscape management. We will do this with a focus is to educate, streamline, and
systemize the landscape maintenance process for clients. For years, the Horticultural Group has sought to
utilize and leverage technology to provide the most innovative land care experience.


PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS & EXPERIENCE

Our team and company have had many opportunities to lead and participate in several large landscape and
forestry maintenance initiatives. Through these experiences, we have streamlined and systemized the
landscape maintenance process for our clients.

Project: Utah State Capital (2011-2019)
    • Established and digitized a tree inventory using HORTUS Central
    • Updated the inventory to include tree risk and tree health assessments to establish a long-term
    maintenance strategy
    • Implemented risk reduction program. Work performed from October 2018-December 2018
    • Currently working with multiple state agencies to develop the State Capital Arboretum.
    • Management of over 3000 trees.


Project: Led Maintenance Initiative for LDS Church Provo Region (2015-2017)
     • Provided full landscape maintenance services, including tree work, for 140 LDS meetinghouses and
     facilities in the Provo region
     • Established and digitized a tree inventory using HORTUS Central.
     • Established the inventory to include tree risk and tree health assessments to establish a long-term
     maintenance strategy.
     • High risk tree mitigation on trees identified in inventory and risk assessment process.
     • Management of over 13,000 trees.


Project: Maintenance Initiative LDS Church Murray FM Group (2013-2016)
     • Provided landscape and forestry consultation services including tree work for 40 LDS meetinghouses and
     facilities in the Murray Utah area.
     • Established and digitized a tree inventory using HORTUS Central.
     • Established the inventory to include tree risk and tree health assessments to establish a long-term
     maintenance strategy.
     • High risk tree mitigation on trees identified in inventory and risk assessment process.
     • Management of over 3,000 trees.


Project: Dinosaur National Monument US Department of the Interior (2019-Present)
     • Risk assessment of Forestry assets through the National Monument.
     • Established and digitized a tree inventory using HORTUS Central.
     • Established the inventory to include tree risk and tree health assessments to establish a long-term
     maintenance strategy.
     • Tree risk mitigation on trees identified in inventory and risk assessment process.


OUR SERVICES
Horticultural Group prides itself in maintaining high landscape standards and practices. With decades of
experience, Horticultural Group has a vast knowledge of landscapes and uses industry best practices to increase
efficiencies and decrease defects. We continually seek to utilize and leverage technology to provide the most
innovative land care experience at the best value. Our aim is to educate, streamline, and systemize the
landscape maintenance process. Horticultural Group’s systems have helped us be an industry leader in
landscape management for our residential, commercial, and municipal clients.

Horticultural Group is an all-inclusive landscape company. Our service diversity and access to technical
resources sets us apart. We self-perform all aspects of landscape management, including:
    • Tree Care- adhering to ANSI A300 Standards for tree care
            o Pruning under 12 feet
            o Pruning over 12 feet
            o Disease control
            o Insect control
              o Fertilization
             o Risk management
             o Certified arborists
             o Tree inventories
             o Hazardous Tree Removal
             o Forestry consultation
      •   HORUTS Central Technology
                HORTUS Central: a cloud-based central landscape management application.
                Some of the overall benefits of HORTUS Central:
                    • Intuitive interactive interface
                    • Real time communications via email and SMS (text)
                    • Inventory of all plant material
                    • Issue reporting delivered in real time with photos
                    • Tracking issues with photo verification on correction
                    • Site specific specifications
                    • Property rating
                    • Receive real time estimate of work requested


  By choosing Horticultural Group, our clients have access to the best contracting services in the area and a
  landscape management tool that provides specific and practical information for each property in real time.


EDUCATION & CERTIFICATIONS

                        Certifications                                    Certificate Holder
      BS Horticultural BYU                                Aaron Kirk
      ISA Certified Arborist                              Eric T Behunin
      ISA TRAQ (Tree Risk Assessment Qualification)       Eric T Behunin
      Utah Licensed Chemical Applicators                  Corey Bruse, Mason Sawyer, Benjamin Packard
      Experienced Sprinkler Technicians                   Employees
      Utah Landscape Contractor                           #9366648-5501
      Utah Company Pesticide                              # 4001-1201
                                                          #4000-239


WATER MANAGMENT

  The Horticultural Group implements many processes to minimize water usage while maintaining plant
  quality. Below you will find a list of processes we implement:

      •   Property Inspection – on site property inspection of all plant material, turf, and other structures.
      •   Soil Infiltration Test—Test that refers to the speed at which water enters the soil.
      •   Irrigation System – includes the following:
               -Irrigation System Inventory
                    o        Inventory of all irrigation components and zone locations
                    o        Description of valve type and locations
                    o        Description of head type and locations
                    o        Description of controller type and locations
                    o        Description of backflow type and locations
                    o        Description of point of connection and locations
               -Irrigation System Inventory Mapping
                         o Plot all irrigation equipment out on a map with legend. This map will also be interactive
                         with the HORTUS Central System.
                         o Plot of valve locations with inventory linked to HORTUS Central
                         o Plot of head locations with inventory linked to HORTUS Central
                         o Plot of controller locations with inventory linked to HORTUS Central
                         o Plot of backflow locations with inventory linked to HORTUS Central
                         o Plot of point of connection locations with inventory linked to HORTUS Central
               -Irrigation System Initial Season Set-up
                         o Irrigation controllers will be set based on the recommendations from HORTUS
                         Central and based on site specific soils, slopes, and plant needs.
               -Irrigation System Monthly Controller Adjustments
                         o Adjust times of irrigation controllers based on weather, temperatures, and
                         historical Evapo Transpiration. Recommendations generated by HORTUS Central.
               -Irrigation System Efficiency Mapping
                         o Sites would be mapped with a NDVI camera providing an overall condition of the site
                         with emphasis on areas that are too wet or too dry.
                         o Inefficient irrigation equipment would be identified.
                         o From this information, recommendations would be made for improving or upgrading
                         the irrigation system.
               -Irrigation System Monthly System Checks
                         o Perform a monthly “Wet Check” of the irrigation systems to ensure all equipment is
                         operating correctly.
                         o Needed repairs would be coordinated with the irrigation contractor.


  Note: All information gathered on site will be inputted into HORTUS Central.


PLANT MANAGEMENT

  Below you will find the process the Horticultural Group utilizes to manage the different plants on our client’s
  properties:
    •   Initial plant inventory of all plant material on property.
             o Assess the health of all plant material
             o Assess the risk of plant material
             o Our horticultural consultants then develop a five-year maintenance and mitigation plan that is
             inputted into HORTUS Central.
    •   Development of a maintenance plan, includes:
             o Using industry best practices
             o Water & fertility management plans based on site specific soil types and plant needs
                      § Fertilizer and weed control plan for bedding plants
                      § Fertilizer, weed control, and maintenance plan for turf.
                      § We use golf and sports field techniques when it comes to managing turf. This allows us
                      to dramatically reduce the amount of fertilizer, water, and other chemicals on the turf
                      area.
             o Forestry risk, health, and mitigation plan for all trees and shrubs
             o Recommend aesthetically pleasing plants, shrubs and trees that are sustainable to the climate
             and conditions of each site.

Note: All information gathered on site will be inputted into HORTUS Central.

The Horticultural Group prides itself in maintaining high landscape standards and practices. Our number one
priority is maintaining the overall health and sustainability of the landscape, while providing the best value to
our clients. We subscribe to a three-pronged landscape sustainability approach, which includes landscape
management, water management and fertility management. Without all three components working in
harmony, landscape sustainability is not possible.

The Horticultural Group uses current industry best practices and utilizes technology for healthier plants. This
includes proper pruning, better water management and fertility management. Techniques we use for healthier
plants are as follows:

General Landscape Assets
    • Use of NDVI Ariel Cameras—by leveraging this technology, we can identify problems on our client’s
    landscapes before they become visible. For example, we can determine where landscapes are being
    over/under water and identify disease in all plant materials.
Water Management
    • Soil Infiltration Test—these tests allow us to determine the amount of water that needs to be applied to
    the landscape. In doing so, we can adjust and monitor the irrigation systems based on the site and needs of
    the plant material.
Fertility Management
    • Once the Horticultural Group can increase and maintain the long-term health and sustainability of the
    plant material, the amount of chemical to appearance of the landscape will decrease.
  Forestry Management
      • Trees—Trees are put on a five to seven-year maintenance pruning rotation. This allows us to mitigate
      risk, while ensuring the trees remain healthy.
      • Shrubs—Trees are put on a five to seven-year maintenance pruning rotation. This allows us to mitigate
      risk, while ensuring the trees remain healthy.

  Overall improved health and appearance of all plant material.
     • Implemented a fertility management program that led to turf areas being thicker, healthier, and free of
     weeds and disease.
     • Implemented a shrub restoration program where all sheared shrubs were restored to selectively pruned
     shrubs.
     • Tree rings were established around all trees in turf areas.
     • Mulching program was established
     • Overall improved health and appearance of all plant material by maintaining high landscape standards
     and practices
     • Implementing a fertility management program to rid the turf areas being thicker, healthier, and free of
     weeds and disease.
     • Implementing a shrub restoration program where all sheared shrubs are restored to selectively pruned
     shrubs.
     • Establishing a long-term forestry management program
     • Established tree rings around all trees in turf areas
     • Managing the irrigation systems to operate and perform more efficiently


DIFFERENCE

  As one can see, the Horticultural Group brings a lot of added value to our clients that differentiates us from our
  competitors.
      • Better command and control through the HORTUS Central App
              o Our Cloud based application allows us to better manage our client’s needs.
              o Through this app, we have increased quality control, increased response time and correction to
              issues and concerns.
              o We are also able to streamline and simplify our services.
              o Through our HORTUS Central app, we can provide our clients with increased value and quality
              of services at a competitive price, while saving them money.
      • We were founded as a consulting company
              o The Horticultural Group’s vision is to set standards of excellence with regards to the exterior
              maintenance of landscapes.
              o We aim to educate, streamline, and systemize the landscape maintenance process for our
              clients and network of local contractors.
               o We continually seek to utilize and leverage technology to provide the most innovative land care
             experience.
             o The Horticultural Group is the parent company for several horticultural based divisions.
      •   We are customer service driven company.

  Additional value we bring to the Intermountain and Boise Idaho regions include the following:
     • Site specific landscape plans
     • Real time communications via email and SMS (text)
     • Easy access to property information via HORTUS Central on any mobile device anytime, anywhere


INSURABILITY REQUIREMENTS

  The Horticultural Group is able to meet the Owners insurance requirements if selected as a service provider.


REFERENCES

     Company           Contact Name &                                       Contact
      Name                  Title               Contact Address             Phone             Contact Email
    State of Utah        Brad DeMond          350 North State Street
                                                                           801.243.1752     bdemond@utah.gov
        DFCM            Project Manager       Salt Lake City, UT 84114


                           John Taylor        2600 W Taylorsville Blvd
   Taylorsville City                                                       801.963.5400   jtaylor@taylorsvilleut.gov
                       City Administrator     Taylorsville, Utah 84129


                       Anthony Teuscher      5355 W Herriman Main St
    Herriman City                                                          801.254.7594   ateuscher@herriman.org
                        Parks Manager         Herriman, Utah 84096

                                                50 E North Temple St
    Corporation of        David Wright           Floor 12 West Wing
                                                                           385.628.9299   wrightds@ldschurch.org
   Presiding Bishop    Landscape Architect   Salt Lake City, Utah 84105-
                                                        0012

    Corporation of       Carl Coombs         5425 S 600 W Murray, Utah
                                                                       801.263.7776       coombscw@ldschurch.org
   Presiding Bishop     Facility Manager               84123

    National Park       Lisa Baldwin
   Service-Dinosaur    Chief, Resource             4545 Hwy 40
                                                                           970.374.3064    Lisa_Baldwin@nps.gov
       National     Stewardship & Science       Dinosaur, CO 81610
      Monument
PROJECT PROPOSED BUDGET

  Horticultural Group's team of ISA Certified Arborists appreciates the incredible value trees provide to
  communities, from improved air quality to decreased energy use and costs, A tree inventory
  by Horticultural Group helps identify these assets and maximizes urban forestry management goals. With a
  decade of experience, Horticultural Group has the leadership and expertise to efficiently perform tree
  inventories of urban forests. A Horticultural Group tree inventory does more than simply count and identify the
  types of trees in an area. We use the latest equipment and our proprietary HORTUS® management software
  serves as a valuable tool to help clients manage their urban forests from virtually anywhere. With these
  resources, which incorporate GIS and GPS technologies, Horticultural Group tree inventory pinpoints precise
  tree locations.

  With fiscal budgets being tight, one-line item, many cities and communities have had to overlook is their green
  infrastructure. For example, many small communities would never be able to justify the cost of a city forester
  and staff. However, with the introduction of HORTUS Central, the Horticultural Group can help facilitate a
  comprehensive management solution for communities of all sizes. Thus, reducing the substantial cost of a
  traditional forestry management approach.

  HORTUS Central was developed to provide different points of access based on the user needs. The software
  system utilizes a database, so any transaction in the underlying data occurs in real time, reflecting immediately
  in each system. HORTUS Central allows clients to efficiently manage their urban forest. HORTUS Central
  Solution, can provides the following:

      •   GIS Inventory maps of street assets
      •   Monetary value of all street assets
      •   Risk management plan for forestry assets
      •   Identify critical maintenance needs
      •   Budget for all recommended work
      •   Track all maintenance performed on street assets
      •   Access the system from any location using desktop, laptop, smartphone or tablet
      •   IOS App available on the Apple app store
      •   Accommodate multiple users simultaneously with real-time editing at the office or in the field
      •   Instantly identify sites, calls and work records requiring immediate attention
      •   Track work histories and costs for each tree by internal crews and contractors
      •   Record citizen requests for service and information
      •   Accurately determine project budgets
      •   Integrated Tagging System QR code.
      •   One-year subscription included with Initial Tree Inventory
REQUESTED SERVICE   DESCRIPTON                              ESTIMATED COST
Action Program      Work with the Council and other                                               $2,800.00
                    applicable Copperton staff to             UP TO 40 HRS AFTER WILL BE BILLED AT $75 PER HOUR

                    develop an action program to
                    accomplish the 5, 10, and 25-year
                    goals and objectives of the master
                    Plan. Specific projects identified
                    during the planning process will
                    provide an explanation as to how
                    they will meet the goals and
                    objectives of the Master Plan.
                    Recommendation and strategies for
                    implementation of goals and
                    objectives will be included.
Park Inventory      Part description Dash identify the                                           $6,250.00
                    part type, part name, size in acreage
                    and physical condition. Develop a
                    comprehensive set of park inventory
                    maps.
Preservation Plan   Create a preservation plan for                                               $1,500.00
                    existing trees and vegetation.
Secession Plan      Create a secession plan for trees to                                         $1,625.00
                    continue large canopy and tree
                    forest in Copperton Park and include
                    possible ideas for the introduction of
                    new vegetation shrubs, plants, and a
                    variety of diversity of trees.
Vegetation Survey   Identify existing vegetation’s with an                                       $2,000.00
                    estimated lifespan of trees and any
                    issues involved with location, water,
                    soil, does diversification, non-native
                    species, pest, disease, or root issues.
Irrigation Plan     Evaluate the current irrigation                                              $2,400.00
                    System and make recommendations
                    to improve irrigation system,
                    including possible drip irrigation in
                    full sprinkler replacement
    Maintenance Schedule                      Create a maintenance schedule for                                     $2,250.00
                                              vegetation and grass areas.
    Capital improvement Schedule              Create a capital improvement                                            $650.00
                                              schedule.
                                              Project Total                                                       $16,675.00

    *These are based on a basic visual tree inspection (BVTA). This is not intended for risk or health assessment. This
    information is to be used to determine if further assessment is needed.


SUBMISSION CONTRACT

                              Contractor Information and Signature
     Contractor Name
                 Horticultural Group Inc.
     Contractor Address
                 4703 South 1175 West
                 Taylorsville, UT 84123
     Contractor Representative Signature                                   Date
                                                                        6.12.2020

     Contractor Representative Name and Title
     Eric T. Behunin                    CEO
     Contractor Telephone
                 801.980.5096
     Contractor Email
                 eric@hortgroup.com


*Signature indicates the proposal is valid for a period of sixty (60) days from the date of submission.

CONCLUSION

    Thank you for your consideration. We would be happy to provide you with any further information you may
    need. If you would like us to provide a formal presentation, please contact Eric
    Behunin at eric@hortgroup.com or 801.980.5096.
