11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview




Title 1 GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter 1.01 CODE ADOPTION
Chapter 1.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter 1.06 COUNTY HOLIDAYS AND OFFICE HOURS
Chapter 1.08 PRISONERS
Chapter 1.12 GENERAL PENALTY
Chapter 1.16 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING

Chapter 1.01 CODE ADOPTION
1.01.010 Adoption
1.01.020 Title--Citation--Reference
1.01.030 Ordinance Amendments--Change In Form Of County Government
1.01.040 Reference To Specific Ordinances
1.01.050 Effective Date Of This Code

1.01.010 Adoption
Pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code § 17-53-208, the county legislative body of Salt Lake County
ordains as follows and has adopted the "Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 1986," as compiled,
edited and published by Book Publishing Company, Seattle, Washington.

(Ord. 992 § 1 (part), 1987)

1.01.020 Title--Citation--Reference

This code shall be known as the "Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 2001" and it shall be sufficient
to refer to the code as the "Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 2001" in any prosecution for the
violation of any provision therein or in any proceeding at law or equity. It shall be sufficient to designate
any ordinance adding to, amending, correcting or repealing all or any portion thereof as an addition to,
amendment to, correction or repeal of the "Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 2001." Whenever a
reference is made to this code as the "Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 2000" or to any portion
thereof, or to any ordinance of Salt Lake County, the reference shall apply to all amendments,
corrections and additions made before, as of or after the effective date of the ordinance codified in this
chapter.

(Ord. 992 § 1 (part), 1987)

1.01.030 Ordinance Amendments--Change In Form Of County Government

      A. The amendments to these ordinances regarding the change in form of Salt Lake County
         government from a county commission form to a mayor-council form shall be effective at noon,
         January 1, 2001.
      B. The adoption of these amendments and the change in form of county government plan shall not
         affect any right, duty, penalty, action, or proceeding commenced under or by virtue of the
         ordinances repealed or amended.

(Ord. 1473 (part), 2001: Ord. 992 § 1 (part), 1987)

1.01.040 Reference To Specific Ordinances
The provisions of this code shall not in any manner affect matters of record which refer to, or are
otherwise connected with the ordinances which are therein specifically designated by number or
otherwise and which are included within this code but such references shall be construed to apply to the
corresponding provisions contained in this code.
https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS      1/12
11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview


(Ord. 1473 (part), 2001: Ord. 992 § 1 (part), 1987)

1.01.050 Effective Date Of This Code

This code shall be effective on April 1, 1987.

(Ord. 1473 (part), 2001: Ord. 992 § 1 (part), 1987)

Chapter 1.04 GENERAL PROVISIONS
1.04.010 Definitions And Rules Of Construction
1.04.020 Interpretation Of Language
1.04.030 Computation Of Time
1.04.040 Liability Of Employers And Agents To Penalty For Violation Of Ordinances
1.04.050 Severability
1.04.060 Separation Of Powers

1.04.010 Definitions And Rules Of Construction

      A. In the construction of the revised ordinances set out in this code, and all ordinances amendatory
         thereof, the following definitions shall be observed, unless such construction would be
         inconsistent with the manifest intent of the county council, or repugnant to the context of the
         ordinance.
                1. "Absent" means for the purposes of the county emergency plan, not physically present
                   and not able to be communicated with via any means for twelve hours.
                2. "At-large" means and refers to those three members of the Salt Lake County council who
                   are elected to the council in a county-wide election.
                3. "Board of health" means the Salt Lake County board of health.
                4. "Business" means any activity, operation, enterprise or calling referred to in this code for
                   which a license is required.
                5. "Central services" include those services and activities provided within the office of the
                   mayor or other offices to support all county government activity including activities related
                   to purchasing, contracting, real estate, claims, management information and data
                   processing, facility management, fleet, accounting, auditing, legal, and general
                   countywide administration.
                6. "City" or "town" means an incorporated municipality.
                7. "County council" or "council" means the County Council of Salt Lake County, Utah.
                8. "Council chair" or "chair" means that member of the Salt Lake County council who has
                   been elected and is serving as the chairperson of the council.
                9. "Council district" or "district" means one or more of the six Salt Lake County council
                   districts.
              10. "Council vice chair" or "vice chair" means that member of the Salt Lake County council
                  districts.
              11. "County" means Salt Lake County and may also be construed to mean the portions of
                  Salt Lake County, Utah, outside the limits of the incorporated cities or towns therein.
              12. "County assessor" or "assessor" means the elected assessor of Salt Lake County, Utah.
              13. "Attorney," "county attorney" or "district attorney" means the elected attorney of Salt Lake
https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS         2/12
11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview

                   County, Utah.
              14. "County auditor" or "auditor" means the elected auditor of Salt Lake County, Utah.
              15. "County clerk" or "clerk" means the elected clerk of Salt Lake County, Utah.
              16. "County mayor" or "mayor" means the elected executive officer and mayor of Salt Lake
                  County, Utah.
              17. "County recorder" or "recorder" means the elected recorder of Salt Lake County, Utah.
              18. "County sheriff" or "sheriff" means the elected sheriff of Salt Lake County, Utah.
              19. "County surveyor" or "surveyor" means the elected surveyor of Salt Lake County, Utah.
              20. "County treasurer" or "treasurer" means the elected treasurer of Salt Lake County, Utah.
              21. "Countywide" policy, procedure or regulation means those lawful policies required to be
                  approved by the council and implemented by the mayor or offices of the county that
                  address matters of administration and management that impact all subdivisions of county
                  government including, but not limited to, matters related to contracting, purchasing,
                  personnel administration, central services, budgeting, debt financing, relations between
                  offices, and other matters authorized by law for county legislative bodies.
              22. "Disaster" means a situation causing or threatening to cause widespread damage, social
                  disruption, or injury or loss of life or property resulting from attack, internal disturbance,
                  natural phenomenon, or technological hazard and includes earthquakes, storms,
                  tornadoes, flood, landslide, avalanche, fire, drought or epidemic.
              23. "Fire department" means the Salt Lake County Fire Department.
              24. "Governing body" means the county council for legislative matters and the mayor for
                  executive matters.
              25. "Health department" means the Salt Lake County health department.
              26. "Highway" or "public highway" means any road, street, lane, court, place, viaduct, tunnel,
                  culvert, bridge, alley or other public way situated within this county, laid out or erected as
                  such by the public, or dedicated, abandoned or open to the public, or made such in any
                  action for the partition of real property, or such other public property so designated by any
                  ordinance or statute, and includes the entire area within the right-of-way.
              27. "Interim successors" means the replacement for an unavailable or absent elected official
                  as a result of a disaster.
              28. "Knowingly" imports only a knowledge that facts exist that bring the act or omission within
                  the provisions of this code. It does not require any knowledge of the unlawfulness of such
                  act or omission.
              29. "Law" means and denotes applicable federal law, the Constitution and statutes of the
                  state of Utah, the ordinances of Salt Lake County and, when appropriate, any and all
                  rules and regulations which may be promulgated thereunder.
              30. "License official" means the director of the Salt Lake County planning and development
                  services division or his designee.
              31. "Local emergency" means the proclamation invoking special powers and the emergency
                  operation plan as a result of a disaster.
              32. "Maliciously" or "malice" means a wish to vex, annoy or injure another person, or an intent
                  to do a wrongful act, established either by proof or by presumption of law.
              33. "Owner," applied to a building or land, means and includes any part owner, joint owner,
https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS         3/12
11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview

                   tenant in common, joint tenant or less of the whole or of any part of the building or land.
              34. "Person" includes bodies politic and any individual, partnership, association, corporation
                  or group of individuals, however styled or designated.
              35. "Personal property" means and includes money, goods, chattels, things in action and
                  evidences of debt.
              36. "Plan" or "optional plan" means the Salt Lake County optional plan of county government
                  adopted for the county at the election held on November 13, 1998 and taking effect on
                  January 1, 2001.
              37. "Property" means and includes real and personal property.
              38. "Real property" means and includes lands, tenements and hereditaments.
              39. "State" means the state of Utah.
              40. "Tenant" or "occupant," applied to a building or land, mean and include any person who
                  occupies the whole or any part of such building, either alone or with others.
              41. "Wilfully," when applied to the intent with which an act is done or omitted, means and
                  implies simply a purpose or willingness to commit the act or make the omission referred
                  to. It does not require any intent to violate law or to injure another or to acquire any
                  advantage.
              42. "Written" means and includes printed, typewritten, mimeographed, multigraphed,
                  photocopied, printed or otherwise processed by computer or other electronic means, or
                  otherwise reproduced in permanent visible form.
              43. "Year" means a calendar year unless specified otherwise.

      B. Rules of Construction.
                1. Mere language changes are not intended to reflect changes in the substance or meaning
                   of the ordinances.
                2. The singular number includes the plural.
                3. Words used in the present tense include the past and future tenses and vice versa,
                   unless manifestly inapplicable.
                4. Words used in the masculine gender comprehend the feminine and neuter.
                5. The term "may" is permissive; the terms "must" and "shall" are each mandatory.


(Ord. No. 1746, § II, 4-16-2013; Ord. 1473 (part), 2001; 1986 Recodification; prior code § 1-1-4)

1.04.020 Interpretation Of Language
All words and phrases shall be construed according to the common and approved usage of the
language, but technical words and phrases and such others as may have acquired a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in the law shall be construed and understood according to such peculiar and
appropriate meaning.

(1986 Recodification: prior code § 1-1-5)

1.04.030 Computation Of Time
Except when otherwise provided, the time within which an act is required to be done shall be computed
by excluding the first day and including the last day, if Saturday, Sunday or a holiday, in which case the
last day shall be the next following business day. When the period of time is less than seven days,
https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS             4/12
11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview

intermediate Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays shall be excluded.

(Ord. 1473 (part), 2001: 1986 Recodification: prior code § 1-1-6)

1.04.040 Liability Of Employers And Agents To Penalty For Violation Of Ordinances
When the provisions of an ordinance prohibit the commission or omission of any act, the person doing
the prohibited act or omitting the directed act and the employer, if the act or omission is done within the
course and scope of employment, and all other persons aiding or abetting therein, shall be guilty of the
offense described and subject to the penalty prescribed for the offense.

(1986 Recodification: prior code § 1-1-7)

1.04.050 Severability
The county council of Salt Lake County, Utah, hereby declares that the council would have passed these
revised ordinances and each section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the
fact that one or more sections, subsections, sentences, clauses or phrases be declared unconstitutional,
void, or unlawful.

(Ord. 1473 (part), 2001: 1986 Recodification: prior code § 1-1-9)

1.04.060 Separation Of Powers

The optional plan of Salt Lake County government, approved by county voters in 1998 and effective in
2001, contemplates a separation of all powers granted by law to a county commission between the
county legislative body (the county council) and the county executive (the county mayor), following the
model or design contemplated in the governments of the United States and the State of Utah.

      A. The county council shall exercise all legislative powers, have all legislative duties, and perform all
         legislative functions, as may be set out in state statute, the county plan, county ordinance, or in
         other sources of the law.
      B. Except as expressly provided otherwise in statute and except as contrary to the powers, duties,
         and functions of other county officers, the county mayor shall exercise all executive powers, have
         all executive duties, and perform all executive functions, as may be set out in state statute, the
         county plan, county ordinances, or in other sources of the law.
      C. Where the law is silent on the distribution or locus of a particular power, the allocation of powers
         shall be determined by function, according to an executive-legislative distinction. Where helpful,
         state and federal separation-of-power models shall be used to determine whether a particular
         power is executive or legislative.

(Ord. 1473 (part), 2001)

Chapter 1.06 COUNTY HOLIDAYS AND OFFICE HOURS
1.06.010 Office Hours
1.06.020 Holidays
1.06.030 Legal Delays

1.06.010 Office Hours

      A. All offices, departments, and agencies of the county shall keep their offices open for the
         transaction of public business between the hours of eight a.m. to five p.m., Monday through
         Friday. In addition to regular office hours, for those offices and agencies in which the normal
         transaction of public business requires other hours of operation, services shall be provided on
         such days and such hours as the public business necessitates.
https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS        5/12
11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview

      B. All full-time county employees shall work forty hours per week. Work schedules in offices,
         departments, and agencies shall be established pursuant to county personnel policies.

(Ord. 1544 § 1 (part), 2005)

1.06.020 Holidays

      A. The following days are legal holidays during which County offices are closed:

             The First day of January                                                   New Year's Day
             The Third Monday of January                                                Martin Luther King Day
             The Third Monday and February                                              Presidents' Day
             The Last Monday in May                                                     Memorial Day
             The Fourth Day of July                                                     Independence Day
             The Twenty-fourth Day of July                                              Pioneer Day
             The First Monday of September                                              Labor Day
             The Eleventh Day of November                                               Veterans Day
             The Fourth Thursday of November                                            Thanksgiving Day
             The Fourth Friday of November                                              Day After Thanksgiving
             The Twenty Fifth Day of December                                           Christmas Day


      B. In the event that a holiday falls on a Saturday, it shall be observed on the preceding Friday. In
         the event that the holiday falls on a Sunday, it shall be observed on the following Monday.
      C. Where the public business requires, some county offices may be required to remain open for
         business on legal holidays.

(Ord. 1544 § 1 (part), 2005)

1.06.030 Legal Delays

Any act which is authorized or required to be performed on a Saturday, Sunday, or holiday, when the
county offices are closed, may be performed on the next business day. No liability or loss of rights of any
kind may result from that delay.

(Ord. 1544 § 1 (part), 2005)

Chapter 1.08 PRISONERS
1.08.010 Prisoner Fees
1.08.020 Work By County Prisoners
1.08.030 Jail Maximum Operating Capacity

1.08.010 Prisoner Fees
The sheriff may charge such prisoner fees as are authorized by law and approved by the council.

(Ord. 1473 (part), 2001)

https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS             6/12
11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview

1.08.020 Work By County Prisoners

      A. Any prisoner confined in the Salt Lake County Jail under conviction of a misdemeanor, under
         which conviction or existing law the prisoner is liable to labor, may be put to labor for the county's
         benefit on public projects.
      B. The sheriff shall direct the working of inmates under subsection A of this section and shall ensure
         that some responsible person will supervise inmate labor.
      C. Inmates of the jail who are not under conviction of a misdemeanor may volunteer for labor under
         the same conditions as convicted misdemeanants.

(Ord. 1473 (part), 2001: Ord. 845, 1983: prior code § 16-15B-6)

1.08.030 Jail Maximum Operating Capacity
The sheriff is authorized by law to establish a maximum operating capacity of each jail facility in the
county upon approval by the council. Capacities shall be based upon available staffing and jail facility
design. Capacity decisions shall be set at least annually as part of the county budget process. Once
established the sheriff is authorized to deny incarceration of inmates on misdemeanor charges and
establish release policies for inmates consistent with state statute, court order or law.

(Ord. 1473 (part), 2001)

Chapter 1.12 GENERAL PENALTY
1.12.010 Penalty For Violation Of Code Provisions

1.12.010 Penalty For Violation Of Code Provisions
When no other penalty is prescribed, any person convicted of violating any provision or provisions of an
ordinance included in these revised ordinances, or in ordinances hereafter enacted, shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished as provided by state criminal code for Class B misdemeanors.

(Ord. 1473 (part), 2001: 1986 Recodification: prior code § 1-1-8)

Chapter 1.16 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING
1.16.010 Short Title
1.16.020 Purpose
1.16.030 Scope
1.16.040 Other Remedies And Criminal Prosecution
1.16.050 Definitions Applicable To Title Generally
1.16.060 Service Of Notice Requirements
1.16.070 Direction To Adopt Rules
1.16.080 Subpoenas
1.16.090 Request For Administrative Hearing
1.16.100 Notification Of Administrative Hearing
1.16.110 Powers Of Administrative Law Judge
1.16.120 Rules Of Discovery And Evidence For Administrative Hearings
1.16.130 Appeal

1.16.010 Short Title
This chapter shall be known as the "Salt Lake County Administrative Procedures Ordinance."

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.020 Purpose

https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS        7/12
11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview

The county council finds that the enforcement of the Salt Lake County ordinances, policies, regulations,
and applicable state statutes is an important public function vital to the protection of the public's health,
safety, welfare, and quality of life. The county council further finds that providing a hearing to county
employees, citizens, and county agencies relating to the enforcement of ordinances, policies,
regulations, and applicable state statutes through an administrative procedures process conducted by
independent, law-trained administrative judges comports with basic due process, simplifies and
expedites hearings benefitting the county and citizens, minimizes the impact on the judicial system, and
provides flexibility in both the hearing process and in determining remedies and responsibilities.

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.030 Scope
The provisions of this chapter may be applied to any violations of the Salt Lake County ordinances,
policies, regulations, and applicable state statutes which occur within unincorporated Salt Lake County
or relate to such activities subject to Salt Lake County operations and jurisdiction. No judicial review
shall be available to any citizen or county agency if the provisions of this chapter are not followed.
Failure to timely request and participate in an administrative review under this chapter shall bar any
action in the state or federal courts by an aggrieved citizen, county employee, or county agency.

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.040 Other Remedies And Criminal Prosecution
The county shall have sole discretion in deciding whether to pursue civil remedies or seek administrative
enforcement for the violation of any of its ordinances, policies, regulations, and applicable state statutes.
This chapter shall not limit the powers of the Salt Lake County district attorney in pursuing criminal
charges for the violation of any county ordinances or state statutes, in addition to any civil action the
county may take.

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.050 Definitions Applicable To Title Generally

In this chapter the following words and phrases are defined as follows:

      A. "County Enforcement Action" or "Action" means any action by the county seeking compliance
         with any ordinance, policy, regulation, applicable state statutes, and includes a notice of violation,
         administrative citation, departmental determination, board findings/order, stop work order, notice
         of non-compliance, clean-up order, abatement action, revocation/suspension of a license or
         permit, assessment of charges or costs, order relating to the occupancy or use of any structure,
         zoning violation, seizure of any animal or property, and any other action by a county agency
         seeking the cessation of any business or operation or the assessment of any costs or non-
         criminal penalty. This term shall not include any criminal prosecution.
      B. "Administrative Law Judge" means a person appointed by the mayor or his designee to preside
         over administrative hearings. An administrative law judge must be an attorney licensed to
         practice law in the State of Utah and must not be an employee of the county.
      C. "Administrative Hearing" means a hearing held pursuant to the procedures established by this
         chapter.
      D. "County" means the County of Salt Lake, Utah.
      E. "County Council" means the County Council of Salt Lake County.
      F. "Director" means the mayor or his designee and includes the division administrator, assistant
         division administrator, or director of an agency.

https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS        8/12
11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview

      G. "Enforcement Official" means any person authorized by the county to enforce violations of the
         Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, policies, regulations, or applicable state codes including,
         but not limited to, zoning officers, police officers, building inspection officials, animal control
         officers, and health department officials.
      H. "Mayor" means the Mayor of Salt Lake County or the Mayor's designee.
       I. "Person" means any natural person, firm, joint venture, joint stock company, partnership,
          association, club, company, corporation, business trust, organization, or the manager, lessee,
          agent, officer, or employee of any of them, or any other entity that is recognized by law as the
          subject of rights or duties, or who represents or is the agent of such person.
       J. "Property Owner" means the record owner of real property as shown on the records of the Salt
          Lake County Recorder.
      K. "Responsible Person" or "Responsible Party" means the person(s) determined by the county who
         is responsible for causing or maintaining a violation of the Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances,
         policies, regulations, or applicable state codes. The term "responsible person" shall include, but
         is not limited to, a property owner, agent, tenant, lessee, occupant, business owner, business
         manager or employee, architect, builder, contractor, or other person who individually or together
         with another person is responsible for the violation of any provision of the Salt Lake County Code
         of Ordinances, policies, regulations, or applicable state codes.

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.060 Service Of Notice Requirements

      A. Whenever a notice is required to be given under this chapter it shall be in the form of a notice
         approved by the director and the notice shall be served by one of the following methods:
                1. Personal service;
                2. Regular mail, postage prepaid, to the last known address of a responsible person;
                3. Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property that is the subject of the
                   action.
                4. Publication in a newspaper of general circulation if service has not been accomplished
                   after reasonable efforts to comply Subsections 1 through 3; or
                5. As directed by the administrative judge.

      B. Failure of a responsible person to actually receive notice shall not affect the validity of any action
         taken hereunder if notice has been served in the manner set forth above.
      C. Service by regular mail in the manner set forth above shall be deemed served on the fourth day
         after the date of mailing.
      D. The failure of a person, other than a responsible person, to be served notice in accordance with
         this section shall not affect the validity of any proceeding taken hereunder.

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.070 Direction To Adopt Rules
The mayor shall establish rules for administrative hearings; appoint the hearing officer from the pool of
approved administrative law judges, or, in the case of a conflict, appoint an outside hearing officer;
provide for the notification of the involved parties; and establish guidelines and operating procedures for
administrative hearings, including the type of pre-hearing discovery that may be allowed.

https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS        9/12
11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview


(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.080 Subpoenas
The administrative law judge is empowered to issue subpoenas for the production of documents and
things and to compel the appearance of witnesses in the pending action. It shall be unlawful for any
person to willfully refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative hearing. A violation of
this section shall be a class B misdemeanor.

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.090 Request For Administrative Hearing

      A. A responsible person served with a "county enforcement action" and any county agency shall
         have the right to request an administrative hearing.
      B. A party who has been adversely affected by an action by a county agency may also request an
         administrative hearing. Adverse effect may arise from:
                1. Any decision affecting the employment status, compensation, or treatment of an
                   employee of the county;
                2. Denial, revocation, or termination of any license issued by the county;
                3. Any decision relating to the zoning or permitted use of real property located within the
                   unincorporated limits of the county;
                4. Any decision relating to the award or failure to award a bid or proposal but which action
                   must be brought within the time limitations and grounds set forth in the county ordinances
                   and policies governing procurement;
                5. Any notice of violation, animal seizure, assessment of costs, or other action taken by
                   animal services; or
                6. Such other violation, assessment, or action as designated by county ordinance, policy,
                   regulation, or state law.

      C. The request for an administrative hearing shall be made in writing and delivered to the Salt Lake
         County mayor's office.
      D. The written request for hearing must be received by the mayor within fifteen calendar days of the
         date the "county enforcement action" is served upon the responsible party. Failure to request an
         administrative hearing within fifteen calendar days from the date of service shall constitute a
         waiver of the right to an administrative hearing and of the right to an appeal of the "county
         enforcement action" to any state or federal court or agency.
      E. Within fifteen days of the issuance of a "county enforcement action," the county may request an
         administrative hearing for the purposed of compelling a responsible person to comply with the
         action.
      F. If a responsible person fails to request a hearing after being issued a "county enforcement
         action" the corrective action detailed within the action shall be considered the final administrative
         order and the person shall be deemed to have waived any appeal of that order.

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.100 Notification Of Administrative Hearing


https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS      10/12
11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview

      A. As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for an administrative
         hearing, the mayor shall appoint an administrative law judge who shall schedule a date, time,
         and place for the administrative hearing.
      B. Written notice of the date, time, and place of the administrative hearing shall be served on the
         responsible person as soon as practicable prior to its date.
      C. The notice shall be served by any of the methods of service set forth in Section 1.16.060 of this
         chapter.

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.110 Powers Of Administrative Law Judge

      A. An administrative law judge shall have authority to set the date, time, and place for holding an
         administrative hearing.
      B. An administrative law judge may issue a scheduling order to guide the conduct of the case, to set
         the limits of any pre-hearing discovery, to provide for the identification of witnesses and their
         expected testimony, to list and exchange proposed exhibits, to approve stipulations regarding
         facts, applicable law, foundation to exhibits, and to govern such other matters related to hearing
         of the matter as deemed appropriate.
      C. The administrative law judge holding a hearing shall arrange for the recording of any hearing.

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.120 Rules Of Discovery And Evidence For Administrative Hearings

      A. The administrative law judge shall determine the scope of any pre-hearing discovery.
      B. The formal rules of evidence and of civil procedure adopted by the courts shall not be applied in
         any administrative hearings; however, the administrative law judge shall determine the
         admissibility and weight to be accorded any evidence.
      C. The administrative law judge shall issue a written ruling within forty-five days after the conclusion
         of the hearing.

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)

1.16.130 Appeal

      A. Any responsible person or county agency adversely affected by a final administrative order
         issued pursuant to a hearing may file a petition for review in the Third Judicial District Court of
         the State of Utah in accordance with the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure.
      B. A petition for review shall be barred unless it is filed within thirty days after the administrative
         order is final, unless a statute provides otherwise.
      C. The record of the administrative hearing including minutes, findings, orders and, if available, a
         true and correct transcript of the proceeding shall be transmitted to the reviewing court by the
         party filing the appeal and the costs of producing the record, including any transcripts, shall be
         borne by the party filing the appeal. If the proceeding was tape recorded, a transcript of such
         tape recording shall be deemed a true and correct transcript for purposes of this subsection.
      D. The filing of a petition does not stay execution of an administrative order. Before filing a petition,
         a responsible person may request the administrative law judge to stay an administrative order.

https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS       11/12
11/29/2019                                                              Print Preview

             Upon receipt of a request to stay, the administrative law judge may order the administrative order
             to be stayed pending district court review if the administrative law judge finds such stay to be in
             the best interest of the county.

(Ord. No. 1765, § I, 3-25-2014)




https://copperton.municipalcodeonline.com/book/print?type=ordinances&name=Title_1_GENERAL_PROVISIONS        12/12
