Utah Code


    Effective 5/14/2019
                                               Chapter 41
                                        Hemp and Cannabinoid Act

                                                   Part 1
                                        Industrial Hemp Research

    4-41-101 Title.
    (1) This chapter is known as the "Hemp and Cannabinoid Act."
    (2) This part is known as "Industrial Hemp Research."

    Amended by Chapter 23, 2019 General Session

    4-41-102 Definitions.
        As used in this chapter:
    (1) "Cannabinoid product" means a chemical compound extracted from a hemp product that:
      (a) is processed into a medicinal dosage form; and
      (b) contains less than 0.3% tetrahydrocannabinol by dry weight.
    (2) "Industrial hemp" means any part of a cannabis plant, whether growing or not, with a
        concentration of less than 0.3% tetrahydrocannabinol by dry weight.
    (3) "Industrial hemp certificate" means a certificate that the department issues to a higher
        education institution to grow or cultivate industrial hemp under Subsection 4-41-103(1).
    (4) "Industrial hemp license" means a license that the department issues to a person for the
        purpose of growing, cultivating, processing, or marketing industrial hemp or an industrial hemp
        product.
    (5) "Industrial hemp product" means a product derived from, or made by, processing industrial
        hemp plants or industrial hemp parts.
    (6) "Licensee" means an individual or business entity possessing a license that the department
        issues under this chapter to grow, cultivate, process, or market industrial hemp or an industrial
        hemp product.
    (7) "Medicinal dosage form" means:
      (a) a tablet;
      (b) a capsule;
      (c) a concentrated oil;
      (d) a sublingual preparation;
      (e) a topical preparation;
      (f) a transdermal preparation;
      (g) a gelatinous cube, gelatinous rectangular cuboid, or lozenge in a cube or rectangular cuboid
           shape; or
      (h) other preparations that the department approves.
    (8) "Person" means:
      (a) an individual, partnership, association, firm, trust, limited liability company, or corporation; and
      (b) an agent or employee of an individual, partnership, association, firm, trust, limited liability
           company, or corporation.
    (9) "Research pilot program" means a program conducted by the department in collaboration with
        at least one licensee to study methods of cultivating, processing, or marketing industrial hemp.




                                                    Page 1
Utah Code


    Amended by Chapter 23, 2019 General Session

    4-41-103 Industrial hemp -- Agricultural and academic research.
    (1) The department and its licensee may grow, cultivate, or process industrial hemp.
    (2) The department shall certify a higher education institution to grow or cultivate industrial hemp
        for the purpose of agricultural or academic research if the higher education institution submits
        to the department:
      (a) the location where the higher education institution intends to grow or cultivate industrial hemp;
      (b) the higher education institution's research plan; and
      (c) the name of an employee of the higher education institution who will supervise the industrial
           hemp growth, cultivation, and research.
    (3) The department shall maintain a list of each industrial hemp certificate holder and licensee.
    (4) The department shall make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
        Rulemaking Act, to:
      (a) ensure any industrial hemp project or research pilot project meets the standards of an
           agricultural pilot project, as defined by Section 7606 of the United States Agricultural Act of
           2014;
      (b) establish requirements for a license to participate in an industrial hemp research pilot
           program;
      (c) establish requirements for a license to grow, cultivate, process, or market industrial hemp;
      (d) set sampling and testing procedures for industrial hemp; and
      (e) define a class or category of an industrial hemp product that is eligible for sale, transfer, or
           distribution to a member of the public.
    (5) A person seeking to cultivate industrial hemp shall provide to the department:
      (a) the legal description and global positioning coordinates sufficient for locating any field or
           greenhouse the person uses to grow industrial hemp; and
      (b) written consent allowing a representative of the department and local law enforcement to
           enter all premises where the person cultivates, processes, or stores industrial hemp for the
           purpose of:
        (i) conducting a physical inspection; or
        (ii) ensuring compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
    (6) An individual who has been convicted of a drug-related felony within the last 10 years is not
        eligible to obtain a license under this chapter.
    (7) The department may set a fee in accordance with Subsection 4-2-103(2) for the application for
        an industrial hemp certificate and the application for an industrial hemp license.

    Amended by Chapter 23, 2019 General Session

    4-41-104 Product registration required for distribution -- Application -- Fees -- Renewal.
    (1) An industrial hemp product that is not registered with the department may not be distributed in
        this state.
    (2) A person seeking registration for an industrial hemp product shall:
      (a) apply to the department on forms provided by the department; and
      (b) submit an annual registration fee, determined by the department pursuant to Subsection
          4-2-103(2), for each industrial hemp product the person intends to distribute in this state.
    (3) The department may conduct tests, or require test results, to ensure that any claim made by an
        applicant about an industrial hemp product is accurate.



                                                   Page 2
Utah Code


    (4) Upon receipt by the department of a proper application and payment of the appropriate fee, as
        described in Subsection (2), the department shall issue a registration to the applicant allowing
        the applicant to distribute the registered hemp product in the state through June 30 of each
        year, subject to suspension or revocation for cause.
    (5) The department shall mail, either through the postal service or electronically, forms for the
        renewal of a registration to a registrant at least 30 days before the day on which the registrant's
        registration expires.

    Enacted by Chapter 227, 2018 General Session

    4-41-105 Unlawful acts.
    (1) It is unlawful for a person who is not a licensee to cultivate, handle, process, or market living
        industrial hemp plants, viable hemp seeds, leaf materials, or floral materials derived from
        industrial hemp.
    (2) It is unlawful for any person to distribute or market an industrial hemp product that is not
        registered with the department pursuant to Section 4-41-104.
    (3) The department may seize and destroy hemp plants or products that do not comply with
        this chapter, including cannabis plants or products that contain a concentration of 0.3%
        tetrahydrocannabinol or greater by weight.
    (4) Nothing in this chapter authorizes any person to violate federal law, regulation, or any provision
        of this title.

    Enacted by Chapter 227, 2018 General Session


                                                 Part 2
                                           Cannabis Cultivation

    4-41-204 Department to make rules regarding cultivation and processing.
       The department shall make rules, in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
    Rulemaking Act:
    (1) to ensure:
      (a) cannabis cultivated in the state pursuant to this chapter is cultivated from state-approved
          seed sources; and
      (b) a private entity contracted to cultivate cannabis has sufficient security protocols; and
    (2) governing an entity that puts cannabis into a medicinal dosage form, including standards for
        health and safety.

    Enacted by Chapter 446, 2018 General Session


                                                Part 4
                                        Cannabinoid Product Act

    4-41-401 Title.
       This part is known as "Cannabinoid Product Act."




                                                   Page 3
Utah Code


    Amended by Chapter 23, 2019 General Session

    4-41-402 Cannabinoid sales and use authorized.
    (1) The sale or use of a cannabinoid product is prohibited:
      (a) except as provided in this chapter; or
      (b) unless the United States Food and Drug Administration approves the product.
    (2) The department shall keep a list of registered cannabinoid products that the department has
        determined, in accordance with Section 4-41-403, are safe for human consumption.
    (3) A person may sell or use a cannabinoid product that is in the list of registered cannabidiol
        products described in Subsection (2).

    Amended by Chapter 23, 2019 General Session

    4-41-403 Standards for registration.
    (1) The department shall make rules in accordance with Title 63G, Chapter 3, Utah Administrative
        Rulemaking Act, to determine standards for a registered cannabinoid product, including
        standards for:
      (a) testing to ensure the product is safe for human consumption;
      (b) accurate labeling; and
      (c) any other issue the department considers necessary.
    (2) The department shall set a fee for a registered cannabinoid product, in accordance with Section
        4-2-103.
    (3)
      (a) A producer, manufacturer, or distributor of a cannabinoid product may pay the fee described
          in Subsection (2).
      (b) A cannabinoid product may not be registered with the department until the fee described in
          Subsection (2) is paid.
    (4) The department shall set an administrative fine, larger than the fee described in Subsection (2),
        for a person who sells a cannabinoid product that is not registered by the department.

    Amended by Chapter 23, 2019 General Session

    4-41-404 Department duties.
       The department shall assess the fine described in Subsection 4-41-403(4) against any person
    who offers an unregistered cannabinoid product for sale in this state.

    Amended by Chapter 23, 2019 General Session




                                                  Page 4
