                                       Planning Commission Staff Report
Meeting     Body:   Copperton                     BACKGROUND/ ISSUES TO CONSIDER
Planning Commission
                                      Utah, like much of the country, is in a housing crisis. The
Meeting Date: July 2nd, 2025          combination of elevated housing prices and the shortage of
File Number & Project Type:           housing units have resulted in more people sharing the housing
OAM2025-001422-             2025      that is available. In Utah this has resulted in more working age
Copperton Parking Revisions           people sharing households. With more working age people living
Applicability: Single and Two-        in a suburban environment that is not efficiently served by transit,
Family Zones Citywide                 this has resulted in more commuters per household than the
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning       driveways in Copperton’s neighborhoods were designed to
Manager                               accommodate. Until the housing market sees increased
Applicant: Copperton Staff            availability of housing and an easing of housing prices, Utah is not
                                      going to see any significant reduction in the number of cars per
Key Findings:
                                      dwelling. The challenge is to ensure that those cars can be
• On street parking must be
                                      accommodated without turning front yards into parking lots or
  regulated on public streets to
                                      rendering the streets impassible due to parked cars, especially in
  ensure that they are passable in
  all weather conditions.             inclement weather.
• Neighborhoods in Copperton
                                                          PROPOSED ORDINANCE
  were not designed with enough
  parking     to    accommodate       Planning Staff have created an ordinance that:
  today’s automobile ownership
  rates.                              - With the exception of the gravel parking pads allowed in side
• If well regulated, on premise       and rear yards, requires hard surfaced front yard parking.
  parking can be expanded
  without    compromising     the     - Allows parking on a gravel parking pad in a side or rear yard
  desire for an attractive street     when located behind a view obscuring fence or gate.
  scape.
                                      - Allows up to 60% of a front yard to be used for parking if the
Staff Recommendation: The             combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces, including
MSD Planning Staff recommend
                                      buildings, driveways, paved walkways, patios, decks, and other
that the Copperton Planning
                                      structures, does not exceed 60% of the area of the lot. The
Commission recommend that the
Council approve the attached          municipal engineering division must approve site plans with more
ordinance.                            than 50% front yard parking.
Exhibits:                             - Eliminates the need for a permit to park two-axle, six-tire single
    A. Proposed Ordinance             unit trucks in association with an “on call” business.

                                      - Clarifies which commercial and construction vehicles and
                                      equipment are not permitted to be kept in residential areas.


                               [OAM2025-001422 / Copperton Parking Amendments / July 2, 2025] | Page 1 of 2
   -   In order to better implement these changes and the parking related ordinances in
       general, the proposed ordinance defines the terms “Drive Approach”, “Driveway”,
       “Driveway, Cross Access”, “Driveway, Multifamily”, “Driveway, Private”, “Driveway
       Shared”, “Hard surface”, “Pavement”, and “Paved”.

   -   Clarifies that Private Roads are Private Streets.

   -   Expands the definition of “Street, Private” to limit the use of private streets to the
       owner or group of owners who share the use and maintenance obligations. This
       definition is more in line with the definition in Title 14.

                                STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that:

   1. On street parking must be regulated on public streets to ensure that they are passable
      in all weather conditions.

   2. Neighborhoods in Copperton were not designed with enough parking to
      accommodate today’s automobile ownership rates.

   3. If well regulated, on premise parking can be expanded without compromising the
      desire for an attractive street scape.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:

The MSD Planning Staff recommend that the Copperton Planning Commission recommend
that the Copperton Town Council approve the attached ordinance.




                     [OAM2025-001422 / Copperton Parking Amendments / July 2, 2025] | Page 2 of 2
                                        Exhibit 1


19.04.020 General Definitions.
“Drive Approach” means an area of the public right-of-way located between the roadway and
property adjacent to the public right-of-way that is intended to provide access for vehicles from
the roadway to the adjacent property.
“Driveway” means a path of ingress and egress constructed within and adjoining a roadway,
connecting the roadway with adjacent or nearby property in accordance with Copperton Municipal
Code. A “driveway” is an unobstructed access from a public or private right of way to an adjacent
or nearby property that does not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian travel within the right of
way.
“Driveway, Cross Access” means a service drive providing vehicular access between two or more
contiguous sites, so the driver need not enter the public street system.
"Driveway, Multifamily" means a driveway providing access to more than four dwelling units.
“Driveway, Private” means a driveway limited to the use of the owner or a group of owners who
share the use and maintain the access and those having express or implied permission from the
owner or owners, but not by other persons.
“Driveway, Shared” means a driveway serving more than one lot.
“Hard surface” means any asphalt or concrete surface of an approved thickness, or other
approved surface, but excluding rock, gravel, grass, or dirt.
“Pavement” includes the paved portion of a street, including paved shoulders and on street
parking areas. “Pavement does not include curbs, gutters, park strips, sidewalks, trails, and
driveways.
“Paved” means ground covered with stone, brick, concrete, asphalt, or other approved surface,
installed over a compacted base course, making a permanent surface that is firm, smooth, and
level. A graded natural surface, or one covered with rolled stone or overlaid with compacted or
loose gravel is not considered a paved surface.
“Road, Private” means the same as “Street, Private”
“Street, Private” means an access way, other than a driveway, similar to and having substantially
the same or similar function as a public street, providing access to one or more properties, but
held in private ownership. A “private street” is limited to the use of the owner or group of owners
who share the use and maintain the street without the assistance of public entities. “Street,
Private” and “Road, Private” can be used interchangeably.
19.28.060 Lot Coverage
A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structure and other structures, shall cover
   more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures may cover more than twenty-five
   percent (25%) of the rear yard.
C. The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces, including buildings, driveways, paved
   walkways, patios, decks, and other structures, may not exceed 60% of the area of the
   lot.Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than fifty percent
   (50%) of the yard area between a structure and a property line. This includes both the required
   setback area and any other yard area between the main building and the property boundary.
   Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the fifty percent
   (50%) impervious surface rule as long as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in
   width.


19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones
A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or
   right-of-way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.
   1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set forth
      in Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060.
   2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
      Authority.
   3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a
      driveway or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the
      applicable provisions of this Title.
   There shall be a hard-surfaced driveway from the public or private road or drive to each
      required parking space (See Table 19.48.150). Each required parking space shall also be
      hard surfaced. The drive and parking surfaces shall consist of a permanent, durable, hard
      surface such as concrete (including permeable concrete), asphalt (including permeable
      asphalt), brick, pavers, stone, or block. A pervious surface may be used, subject to
      applicable municipal ordinances and policies.
B. Except as provided in subsection C, Ppaved or gravel parking areas or driveways may not
   occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than forty
   feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the fifty percent (50%) parking or
   driveway rule as long as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.
C. Parking areas in the front yard may exceed 50% of the front yard area under the following
   conditions:
   1. The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces, including buildings, driveways,
      paved walkways, patios, decks, and other structures, may not exceed 60% of the area of
      the lot; and
   2. The parking areas in the front yard do not exceed 60% of the front yard area; and
   3. The municipal engineer verifies that the site plan as proposed will not adversely impact
      the municipal or local storm drain system; and
   4. A landscape planting area of at least 500 square feet is maintained in the front yard.
D.C. Front Yard Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the
   front yard of a residential use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited. A legal driveway in
   the front yard may be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.
E. Driveway Surfacing. There shall be a hard-surfaced driveway from the public or private road
   or drive to each required parking space (See Table 19.48.150). Each required parking space
   shall also be hard surfaced except for parking pads as provided in this Subsection.
   1. The drive and parking surfaces shall consist of a permanent, durable, hard surface such
      as concrete, asphalt, brick, pavers, stone, or block.
   2. A pervious surface, including permeable concrete or permeable asphalt may be used,
      subject to applicable municipal ordinances and policies.
   3. D.      Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential
      property in any R-1 or R-2 zone shall:
   1.    Bbe parked or stored on a paved surface in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a
        dwelling. Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad
        which is constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area shall be kept weed free.
FE.    Commercial Vehicles. Commercial vehicles shall not be parked or stored on residential
property in an R-1 or R-2 zone, except in the following circumstances:

   1. Commercial vehicles may be parked on a property in conjunction with lawfully permitted
      construction, maintenance, or site development activities so long as said activities are
      diligently pursued.
   2. Subject to Subsection 4, Oone commercial vehicle may be parked behind the front line of
      the dwelling and screened from view from public streets or neighboring properties with an
      opaque fence that is at least six feet (6’) tall, provided it is parked on a paved surface. The
      commercial vehicle may not exceed Class 5 (two (2)-axle, six (6) -tire single unit trucks)
      in Federal Highway Administration vehicle classification.
   3. Subject to Subsection 4, Oone commercial vehicle may be parked in the front yard or side
      yard of a dwelling in the R-1 or R-2 Zones upon issuance of a permit by PDS, as long as
      all of the following criteria are met:
        a. No other commercial vehicle is parked or stored on the property;
        b. The operator of the vehicle is required to be on call twenty-four (24) hours a day to
           use the vehicle in response to an emergency;
        c. The commercial vehicle is parked on a paved surface;
        d. The commercial vehicle is parked entirely on private property, not parked on or over
           the street or sidewalk; and
        e. The commercial vehicle does not exceed Class 5 (two-axle, six tire single unit trucks)
           in Federal Highway Administration vehicle classification.
   4. Prohibited Commercial Vehicles. The following commercial vehicles are prohibited from
      being parked in an R-1 or R-2 Zone except as provided for in Section 1:
        a. Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts, bulldozers, and
           the like, which are commonly used for construction, excavation, demolition, or lifting;
       b. Vehicles used to haul equipment or materials such as dump trucks, tanker trucks,
          semi-tractors, semi-trailers, cement trucks, or other similar vehicles; and
       c. Vehicles exceeding Class 5 (two (2)-axle, six (6)-tire single unit trucks) in the Federal
          Highway Administration vehicle category classification.
GF.    Clear View Triangles. In accordance with Subsections 19.46.120 D and E, no vehicle may
   be parked in a manner that obstructs the clear view triangle of an intersecting street or a
   driveway.
