     Proposal Prepared
             for
 Copperton Park Master Plan
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
        PO Box 125
    Copperton, UT 84006


        Prepared by:
        Josh Shroyer
 FlamingTree Solutions, LLC.
         56 Cliff Dr.
     Riverton WY 82501




        July 30, 2020
Background, Education, Experience and Certifications

My name is Josh Shroyer. I am Co-Owner of FlamingTree Solutions, LLC. and the Principle Forester for
the company. I obtained my B.S in Forestry from the University of Missouri – Columbia in 1996. I have
been a member of the Society of American Foresters since 1994 and a member of the International
Society of Arboriculture since 1997. I am a SAF Certified Forester (CF #1026), and a ISA Certified Arborist
(RM-8189A) and am also ISA Tree Risk Assessment Qualified (TRAQ).

I started my career in 1996 in the Kansas City Region of the Missouri Department of Conservation –
Forestry Division learning from some of the best Urban Foresters at the time and gaining a lot of
valuable urban/community forestry experience there. In 2015, I left Missouri and started working for
the Wyoming State Forestry Division as a District Forester in Riverton WY. Then, in October of 2019, I
started my own Forestry Consulting Firm, FlamingTree Solutions, LLC and have been a Consultant since.

I have worked as an Agency Forester assisting numerous Communities obtain Tree City USA status by
being an advisor and/or member of their Tree Boards. I am currently the Chairman of the Riverton WY
Tree Board. I helped start the Tree Board for Clinton, MO, a community of about 10,000, and have been
an agency advisor to the Kansas City MO Tree Board.

In these capacities, I have conducted numerous tree inventories and tree management plans. Most
recently, as a Consultant, I have completed a comprehensive Tree Inventory and Tree Management plan
for the Fremont County School District #25, located in Riverton Wy. This also included performing ISA
Level 2 Tree Risk Assessments, and developing a Tree Planting Plan for in front of their Administration
Building, located on the main street in town.

I have a long record of working well with City Councils, Tree Boards, Parks and Rec Boards, Special
Boards, and members of the Community.



Costs

Total proposed costs for me to complete this project is $9,800.



Project Deliverables/Project Specifics

Working alone, no sub-contractors, I will complete all the required components as outlined in the RFP,
1. C. Scope of Project. This includes the Master Plan (the 5-year, 10-year, and 25-year action plans),
Capital Improvement Schedule, Irrigation Plan, Park Inventory, Preservation Plan, Succession Plan,
Vegetative Survey, and Weed/Maintenance Schedule.

Specifically, on the Vegetative Survey, or Tree Inventory, in addition to the items outlined in the RFP,
metrics to be collected include species, DBH, Height Class, current health condition, and recommended
future management/maintenance. Each tree will be plotted in ArcGIS and mapped along with the
inventory.
Proposal shall be valid for the required 60 days from today, July30, 2020.

All questions/comments concerning this proposal shall be referred to:

Josh Shroyer, CF
FlamingTree Solutions, LLC.
56 Cliff Dr.
Riverton WY 82501
307-851-3318
Josh@flamingtreesolutions.com


I look forward to being able to discuss further via an oral presentation thru a Zoom link or other
comparable virtual video media.




/s/Josh Shroyer                                                           7/30/2020

Josh Shroyer, FlamingTree Solutions, LLC.                                 Date
