          REQUEST FOR PROPOSALS


Copperton Metro Township Copperton Park Master Plan




            COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
            PO Box 125, 8725 West Hillcrest Street
                    Copperton, UT 84006
                       (801) 615-3900
                  www.coppertonutah.org


                           [DATE]
General Information
Introduction
The Copperton Metro Township Council (the “Council”), located in Salt Lake County, Utah, is
seeking the professional services of a qualified Arborist to provide professional parks planning
consultant services to create a successful and innovative Community Park Arbor Master Plan (the
“Master Plan”).
Background
Copperton Park is the central fixture for the Copperton community. It has a rich history and is a
County destination. Known for its large canopy of trees and distinct playground, Copperton Park
must be maintained and planned to serve the Copperton community for future generations.
Scope of the Project
The Master Plan seeks to design the future of Copperton Park with 5-year, 10-year, and 25-year
goals. It must be completed according to the standards and guidelines established by the
Copperton Metro Township (“Copperton”).
The Master Plan must include, but is not limited to, the following elements:

   •   Action Program – The Arborist will work with the Council and other applicable Copperton
       staff to develop an action program to accomplish the 5, 10, and 25 year goals and
       objectives of the Master Plan. Specific projects that are identified during the planning
       process should be described with an explanation as to how they will meet the goals and
       objectives of the Master Plan. Recommendations and strategies for implementation of
       goals and objectives should also be included.
   •   Capital Improvement Schedule – Create a capital improvement schedule.
   •   Irrigation Plan – Evaluate the current irrigation and recommendations with the ability to
       execute irrigation plan (including possible drip irrigation and full sprinkler replacement).
   •   Park Inventory
           a. Park Description – Identify the park type, park name, size in acres, and physical
               condition.
           b. Maps – Develop a comprehensive set of park inventory maps.
   •   Preservation Plan – Create a preservation plan for existing trees and vegetation.
   •   Succession Plan – Create a succession plan for trees to continue large canopy and tree
       forest in Copperton Park, and include possible ideas for introduction of new vegetation,
       shrubs, plants, and a variety and diversity of trees.
   •   Vegetative Survey – Identify existing vegetation with estimated lifespan of trees and any
       issues involved with location, water, soil, diversification, non-native species, pest, disease,
       or root issues.
   •   Weed and Feed / Maintenance Schedule – Create a weed and feed / maintenance
       schedule for vegetation and grass.
Project Timeline
The following schedule is the anticipated timeline of the project.

   •   RFP advertised [DATE].
   •   Proposals due [DATE] at [TIME].
   •   Presentations [DATE] and [TIME].
   •   Evaluation and Selection October 4, 2019.
   •   Final Copperton Park Master Plan due [DATE].

Proposal Requirements and Contents
Statement of Qualifications                                                                              Commented [NSB1]:

The Council is interested in the experience of the Arborist (and the Arborist’s staff, if applicable).   Commented [NSB2R1]: Does the Council want to specify
                                                                                                         the criteria it will use? Relatedly, if we include criteria,
In order to be considered, your submittal must include the following information:
                                                                                                         should we weight the criteria?
   •   Identification – Provide your name, address, telephone number, fax, email, and website
       address(s).
   •   History – Describe your experience on similar projects and the expertise of your staff (if
       applicable) to complete the components included in the Scope of the Plan.
   •   References – A minimum of three (3) arbor plan references including the contact person’s
       name, telephone number, and email address.
   •   Subcontractors – If subcontractors will be used for portions of the project, explain their
       intended role and experience germane to the project and what percentage of work they
       will conduct.
   •   Submission Contact – The name, title and signature of the person having the proper
       authority to submit the proposals. This signature will indicate that the proposals are valid
       for a period of sixty (60) days from the date of submission.
   •   Proposed Budget – The overall cost to the Copperton including personnel,
       administrative, travel, supplies, etc.
Inquiries
Questions concerning this request for proposals should be submitted to:
                                    Copperton Metro Township
                               Attention: Kathleen Bailey, Treasurer
                                           801-971-0841
                                 kathleenbailey@coppertonut.org


Submittal Delivery
To be considered, proposals must be submitted both by (1) hand-delivery or mail and by (2)
email:

    (1) Hand-delivery or mail: Submit one (1) original and two (2) hard copies of your proposal
        in a sealed envelope clearly marked: “PROPOSAL FOR COPPERTON PARK MASTER
        PLAN” by delivery or by mail to:

                                    Copperton Metro Township
                               Attention: Kathleen Bailey, Treasurer
                               PO Box 125, 8725 W Hillcrest Street
                                       Copperton, UT 84006
    (2) Email: Submit an electronic version and an email address to:
        kathleenbailey@coppertonut.org.

Proposals must be received no later than [DATE] and [TIME]. Facsimile submittals will not be
accepted. Copperton assumes no responsibility for delayed or undelivered mail or express
packages. Proposals which are not delivered to Copperton by the above specified time and date
will not be considered.
Preparation of Qualifications/Proposals

   •   Failure to Read. Failure to read the Request for Proposals and these instructions will be
       at the offeror's own risk.
   •   Cost of Developing Qualifications/Proposals. All costs related to the preparation of the
       qualifications/proposals and any related activities are the sole responsibility of the offeror.
       Copperton assumes no liability for any costs incurred by offerors throughout the entire
       selection process, including prior to selection and issuance of a contract.
Confidentiality
All responses, inquiries, and correspondence relating to this RFP and all reports, charts, displays,
schedules, exhibits, and other documentation produced by the offeror that is submitted to
Copperton, as part of the proposal or otherwise may be considered public information under
applicable law, including but not limited to the Government Records Access and Management
Act, Title 63G, Chapter 2, Utah Code Annotated ("GRAMA"). Copperton generally considers
proposals and all accompanying material to be public and subject to disclosure.
Any material considered by the offeror to be proprietary must be accompanied by a written claim
of confidentiality and a concise written statement of reasons supporting the claim. Blanket claims
that the entire RFP is confidential will be denied. Copperton cannot guarantee that any information
will be held confidential. Under Section 63G-2-309 of GRAMA, if the offeror makes a claim of
confidentiality, Copperton, upon receipt of a request for disclosure, will determine whether the
material should be classified as public or protected, and will notify the offeror of such
determination. The offeror is entitled under GRAMA to appeal an adverse determination.
Copperton is not obligated to notify the offeror of a request, and will not consider a claim of
confidentiality, unless the offeror's claim of confidentiality is made in a timely basis and in
accordance with GRAMA.

Proposal Selection
Qualification/Proposal Information

   •   Qualifications. All qualifications must remain valid for at least ninety (90) days from the
       date of submission. Copperton reserves the right to consider modifications to any
       qualifications received at any time before the award is made, if such action is in the best
       interest of Copperton.
   •   Oral Presentations. Those who submit proposals will be required to make oral
       presentations on [DATE] and [TIME] to allow firms to clarify their proposals, as well as
       provide a forum for discussion.
   •   Discussions With Offerors. Copperton reserves the right to enter into discussions with the
       offeror(s) determined to be reasonably susceptible of being selected for award, or to enter
    into exclusive discussions with the offeror whose proposal is deemed most advantageous,
    whichever is in Copperton’s best interest, for the purpose of negotiation. In the event that
    exclusive negotiations are conducted and an agreement is not reached, Copperton
    reserves the right to enter into negotiations with the next highest ranked offeror without
    the need to repeat the formal solicitation process.
•   Equal Opportunity. Copperton will make every effort to ensure that all offerors are treated
    fairly and equally throughout the entire advertisement, review, and selection process. The
    procedures established herein are designed to give all parties reasonable access to the
    same basic information. Township’s policy, subject to federal, State, and local
    procurement laws, is to provide reasonable attempts to support Township’s businesses
    by purchasing goods and services through local vendors and service providers.
•   Proposal Ownership. All proposals, including attachments, supplementary materials,
    addenda, etc., shall become the property of Copperton and will not be returned to the
    offeror.
•   Final Authorization. Copperton’s intends to eventually contract with the person whose
    proposal is deemed most advantageous in experience, qualifications, price and other
    factors considered. Copperton does not necessarily intend to award a contract solely on
    the basis of any response made to this request or otherwise pay for any information
    solicited or obtained during the RFP process. Final authorization of an accepted bid will
    be provided by the Copperton Metro Council after they have had an opportunity to review
    the recommendations. It is expected that the winning bidder will be selected by
    _______________ 2019.
•   Rejection of Proposals. Copperton reserves the right to reject any or all proposals received
    and disqualify incomplete or late proposals. Proposals lacking required information will not
    be considered. Furthermore, Copperton shall have the right to waive any informality or
    technicality in proposals received when in the best interest of Copperton. No proposal
    shall be accepted from, or contract awarded to, any person, firm or corporation that is in
    arrears to Copperton for any obligation. Offerors may be required to submit satisfactory
    evidence that they have the necessary financial resources to perform and complete the
    work outlined in this RFP.
•   Copperton’s Best Interest. Copperton reserves the right to take any steps deemed
    necessary to act in Copperton’s best interest.
•   GRAMA. All submittals shall be public records in accordance with government records
    regulations ("GRAMA") unless otherwise designated by the applicant pursuant to UCA §
    63G-2-309, as amended.
•   Proposal Term. Proposals shall be good for six (6) months from submittal deadline.
•   Reservation of Rights. Copperton reserves the right to cancel or modify the terms of this
    RFP and/or the project at any time and for any reason preceding contract award and
    reserves the right to accept or reject any or all proposals submitted pursuant to this request
    for proposals. Copperton will provide respondents written notice of any cancellation and/or
    modification. Furthermore, Copperton shall have the right to waive any informality or
    technicality in proposals received when in the best interest of Copperton.
