                           UTAH MEDICAL CANNABIS ACT
                         Land Use and Zoning Considerations


1. Definitions

      a. “Cannabis Production Establishment” is defined as “a cannabis cultivation
         facility, a cannabis processing facility, or an independent cannabis testing
         laboratory.” UCA § 4-41a-102(7)

      b. “Cannabis Cultivation Facility” is defined as “a person who possesses cannabis;
         grows or inteds to grow cannabis; and sells or inteds to sell cannabis to a cannabis
         cultivation facility, a cannabis processing facility, or a medical cannabis research
         licensee.” UCA § 4-41a-102(2)

      c. “Cannabis Processing Facility” is defined as “ a person that: acquires or intends
         to acquire cannabis from a cannabis production establishment or a holder of an
         industrial hemp processor license under [Utah Code]; possesses cannabis with the
         intent to manufacture a cannabis product; manufactures or intends to manufacture
         a cannabis product from unprocessed cannabis or a cannabis extract; and sells or
         intends to sell a cannabis product to a medical cannabis pharmacy or a medical
         cannabis research licensee.” UCA § 4-41a-102(4)

      d. “Community Location” is defined as “a public or private school, a licensed child-
         care facility or preschool, a church, a pubic library, a public playground, or a public
         park.” UCA § 4-41a-102(10)

      e. “Medical Cannabis Pharmacy” is defined as “a person that acquires or intends to
         acquire: (A) cannabis in a medicinal dosage form or cannabis product in a medicinal
         dosage form from a cannabis processing facility; or (B) a medical cannabis device
         … and sells or intends to sell cannabis in a Medicinal dosage form, a cannabis
         product in a medicinal dosage form, or a medicinal cannabis device to a medical
         cannabis card holder.” UCA § 26-61a-102(27)

2. Location Restrictions

      a. “A person may not locate a cannabis production establishment: (A) within 1,000
         feet of a community location; or (B) in or within 600 feet of a district that the
         relevant municipality or county has zoned as primarily residential.” UCA § 4-41a-
         201(2)(c).

      b. “A person may not locate a medical cannabis pharmacy: (A) within 200 feet of a
         community location; or (B) in or within 600 feet of a district that the relevant
         municipality or county has zoned as primarily residential.” UCA §26-61a-
         301(2)(c).



                                            1
    3. Local Control Cannabis Production Establishment

             a. Under Utah Code Ann. § 4-41a-406, if the municipality’s zoning ordinances
                provide for an agricultural or industrial zone, the operation of a cannabis production
                establishment shall be a permitted use in any agricultural or industrial zone. The
                municipality may designate at least one agricultural or industrial zone where a
                cannabis production establishment is a permitted use. UCA § 4-41a-406(2)(a)-(b).

             b. A municipality may not
                    i. Deny or revoke a land use permit or business license solely on the basis that
                       the cannabis violates federal law
                   ii. Require a certain distance between a cannabis production establishment
                       and: another cannabis production establishment; a medical cannabis
                       pharmacy; a retail tobacco specialty business; or an outlet. See UCA § 4-
                       41a-406(3).

    4. Local Control Medical Cannabis Pharmacy
             a. Under Utah Code Ann § 26-61a-507, a Medical cannabis pharmacy is a permitted
                use in any zone, overlay or district, except for a primarily residential zone.
             b. A municipality may not:
                      i. Deny or revoke a land use permit or business license solely on the basis that
                         the cannabis violates federal law;
                      ii. Require a certain distance between a medical cannabis pharmacy and:
                          another medical cannabis pharmacy; cannabis production establishment; a
                          retail tobacco specialty business; or an outlet.
             c.   A municipality may enact an ordinance that governs the time, place, or manner1 of
                  medical cannabis pharmacy operations in the municipality.
    5. Recommendations
             a. Review zoning designations to determine whether the descriptions adequately and
                appropriately describe zoning districts intended to be primarily residential.
             b. If desired adopt time, place, and manner restrictions; however, these restrictions
                must be designed to serve a “substantial government interest.” The municipality
                will need to be able to provide a reasonable basis for believing the specific
                restriction will serve a substantial government interest.2 The ordinance must also
                be narrowly tailored, in other words, impose the least restriction necessary to
                promote the governmental interest.3



1
  The phrase “time, place, and manner” is not defined in the Act. Utah courts have held that a municipal regulation
“meets content-neutral time, place, and manner requirements if it (1) is content neutral; (2) is designed to serve a
substantial government interest; and (3) does not unreasonably limit alternative avenues of expression.” See e.g.
Midvale City Corp. v. Haltom, 2003 UT 26, ¶ 64, 73 P.3d 334, 348
2
  See Artistic Entm't, Inc. v. City of Warner Robins, 331 F.3d 1196, 1205 (11th Cir. 2003)
3
  Midvale City Corp. v. Haltom, 2003 UT 26, at ¶ 39.

                                                         2
c. Adopted an ordinance providing that Cannabis Production Establishments and
   Medical Cannabis Pharmacies are permitted uses provided they comply with all
   state statutory provisions.




                                 3
