DATE            THURSDAY                          OCTOBER                                    5, 2023

           THE WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
THURSDAY, OCTOBER 5, 2023, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON THURSDAY,
SEPTEMBER 7, 2023, AT THE HOUR OF 6:00 P.M. THE MEETING WAS HELD AT THE WHITE
CITY WATER IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT AT 999 EAST GALENA DRIVE, WHITE CITY, UT
84094.

COUNCIL MEMBERS
PRESENT:                       GREG SHELTON
                               PHILLIP CARDENAZ
                               ALLAN PERRY
                               LINDA PRICE

EXCUSED:                       PAULINA FLINT, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: PAUL ASHTON, LEGAL COUNSEL
                      RORI ANDREASON, ADMINISTRATOR
                      NICHOLE WATT, DEPUTY CLERK

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Council Member Price, Pro-Tempore, presided.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                             Workshop

Unified Police Department (UPD)

                Chief Jason Mazuran stated he has been tasked to reorganize the UPD. The plan
remains fluid and can be customized to fit the metro township's needs. For the purpose of
efficiency, certain services could be contracted through other agencies, including the Salt Lake
County Sheriff’s Office. It makes sense for jurisdictions to come together to pay for services.

               Paul Ashton asked if there was going to be an increase in the number of officers
in UPD.

               Chief Mazuran stated there will be a decrease in staff, but it will not be significant.
He is trying to make reasonable estimations to provide proper coverage. The finance chart
continues to be worked on to get the numbers to where they need to be.

               Council Member Cardenaz stated there may be sticker shock but there are going
to have to be some changes to make UPD work.

               Council Member Price asked what the deadline is to have the transition complete.

                Chief Mazuran stated the date discussed within UPD is July 1, 2024; however,
the legislature provided more time than that. To make the transition smooth, he anticipates moving
each group over one at a time.



                                                  1
DATE            THURSDAY                         OCTOBER                                   5, 2023

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA) Potential Tax Increase

               This item was pulled until next month.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA) Potential Tax Increase

               Rachel Anderson, District Administrator, UFSA, stated UFSA is proposing a tax
increase and with that, it must report to all member entities within the jurisdiction. White City is
unique in that it is completely within the boundaries of Sandy City. To get the most effective
services, UFA contracts with Sandy City Fire to provide services to White City residents. Tax
increases have been infrequent with the last one being in 2018. The board is proposing a 12
percent increase this year and 12 percent the following year.

               Tony Hill, Chief Financial Officer, Unified Fire Authority (UFA), delivered a
PowerPoint presentation reviewing the cost per average taxpayer, property tax rates, and
property tax revenue. The public hearing will be held on December 5, 2023, at 6:00 p.m.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
             Council Member Cardenaz, seconded by Council Member Shelton, moved to close
the workshop meeting. The motion passed unanimously.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        Business Meeting

White City Financial Report

               No report was given.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Unified Fire Authority (UFA)

              Chief Ken Aldridge stated UFA held meetings to discuss the Strategic Plan. He
reviewed construction updates and captain promotions.

             Rori Andreason, Administration, stated there are some concerns with the lack of
funding for White City residents to attend Community Emergency Response Team (CERT)
training.

              Kelly Collins, resident, stated White City had a strong CERT program until
COVID-19 hit. Now, she and one other person run the CERT program and it does not have any
funding. She spoke with Sandy City and residents can be trained; however, it will not provide
funding. Funding for an emergency will need to come from Salt Lake County. She has walked

                                                 2
DATE            THURSDAY                          OCTOBER                                    5, 2023

door to door asking for donations to get CERT up and running again. She has a small storage
unit and her garage to store supplies. How does White City obtain funding and how do we get the
community involved again?

              Chief Bassett, Sandy City Fire Department, stated if there is a disaster, funding
would be available through Salt Lake County Emergency Management.

            Council Member Price stated if there were an emergency in White City, Salt Lake
County Emergency Management would come in and handle it. There are plans in place.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

Sandy City Fire Quarterly Report

              Chief Bassett stated he sent the incident report to the Council. On the ballot this
year, Sandy City has a general obligation bond initiative to build a new station. The new fire station
would be located at 9295 S 255 W.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Unified Police Department (UPD)

                Detective Josh Smith reviewed calls for service for September, noting increased
calls related to public order, civil matters, and welfare checks. Officers focused on general safety
around schools and school zones. There was an increase in traffic calls because officers were
asked to piggyback with crossing guards and provide education to drivers.

              Council Member Shelton stated he received an email regarding a crosswalk that
was taken out. The crosswalk is in Sandy City but borders White City.

               Detective Smith stated the crosswalk was removed when the road was repaved.
A member of the PTA contacted UPD to state her concerns about the crosswalk. She was
instructed to email Chief Randy Thomas, who then asked her to contact Canyons School District.
Canyons School District stated the crosswalk was not necessary, but it would revisit the issue.
Crossing guards are not supposed to cross children when there is not a crosswalk but are doing
it anyway to help get kids cross the street safely.

He also noted that on October 28, 2023, there will be a prescription round-up at the Midvale City
precinct.

                                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Public Comments

                Jim Mitchell stated he is concerned about the property on 10600 S 1225 East that
is running a landscaping business. The homeowner has been issued a stop order; however, there
are still crews coming and going and more landscaping material is being stored. The homeowner
has applied for a permit to use his property as a nursery. He should not be able to continue to use



                                                  3
DATE           THURSDAY                          OCTOBER                                  5, 2023

the property as a nursery until the application is resolved. Public access is not intended for 1225
E, it is a private road.

                 Kristy Shelton stated she is very concerned about the property located at 10600
S 1225 E. Neighbors were told that Earthscapes was the original owner, but code enforcement
says it is under the name Dick. If the property is used as a nursery, are neighbors expected to
see foot traffic and vehicles coming in and out of the property? The property is accessed from a
private road. If the homeowner has been asked to shut down, he is not complying. There are at
least three trucks hidden on the property and two vehicles that are parked there daily. She has
been sending photos to code enforcement.

               Zachary Sexton recommended changing the official address for the metro
township from Mayor Flint’s address to the White City Water District’s address. He would also like
the Council to consider allowing short-term rentals. It would be a good way to increase revenue,
make properties nicer, and help supplement people's incomes.

               Kathleen Ballaine stated she runs through White City, starting on Carnation. The
neighborhood is well lit, and she feels safe running through the area. She thanked the Council for
creating a safe area.

                                    ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

Approval of Minutes

             Council Member Perry, seconded by Council Member Cardenaz, moved to
approve the minutes of the White City Metro Township Council meeting held on September 7,
2023. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Discussion/Action Items

Onyx Tax Deed Parcel near Bear Park

               Paul Ashton stated Salt Lake County received a piece of land that runs along Big
Bear Park on a tax sale. It is willing to sell it to White City for $1000.19. He recommends
authorizing the execution of the agreement and the purchase of the property.

              Council Member Perry, seconded by Council Member Cardenaz, moved to
approve the purchase of the Onyx Tax Deed. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Communication with the Community Council and Residents

               Council Member Perry stated the Council has talked about reaching out to the
public with information on community events and issues. He would like to create an official
guideline on how information is distributed to the public. He reviewed what types of
communications would be distributed. Information can be disseminated through Facebook, the
White City Metro Township website, CodeRED, and an email list.

                                                4
DATE           THURSDAY                        OCTOBER                                 5, 2023


                Paul Ashton recommended that Rori Andreason come back with a plan and
present it to the Council.

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Reports

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

              No report was given.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA)/Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

              Council Member Perry stated the Board will review the Strategic Plan process at
the October meeting. He toured the fire safety trailer. The trailer has a lot of different
demonstrations and interactive activities that will be a good learning tool for kids. The public
hearing for UFSA will be held on December 5, 2023, at 6:00 p.m.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Mosquito Abatement District

               Council Member Price stated most of the seasonal employees are finished for
the year. There were 39 West Nile-positive pools in the district and no human cases in Salt Lake
County. The new district manager will start this month.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Animal Services

              Council Member Price stated White City donated to the Spayghetti and No Balls
fundraising event. Our contribution was combined with other communities and brought in a total
of $1,500.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Police Department (UPD)/Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

                 Council Member Cardenaz stated UPD is progressing and moving in the right
direction with its reorganization.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling (WFWRD)



                                               5
DATE           THURSDAY                         OCTOBER                                  5, 2023

                Council Member Shelton stated the Board discussed the budget and is expecting
to ask for a fee increase in 2024. It reviewed the Seasonal Container Reservation Program stats.
Residents in White City had concerns about the number of reservations requested and the total
containers received. Out of 216 reservations that were officially requested, 17 of them could not
be accommodated. WFWRD has changed the way it distributes dump vouchers. Instead of doing
a paper voucher, a QR code will be issued to the resident with its name and address associated
with it.

                Council Member Cardenaz stated leaf bags were delivered to White City Water
District and are available for residents to pick up.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Other Items

                Rori Andreason stated the Board of Canvassers will need to meet on December
6, 2023, to certify the election. The regular White City Council meeting is scheduled for December
7, 2023. She suggested moving the Council meeting to December 6, 2023.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Council Member Cardenaz, seconded by Council Member Perry, moved to close
the meeting to discuss potential litigation. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.



                                     ___________________________________________
                                     MAYOR
                                     WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


LANNIE CHAPMAN
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK



By ________________________________
   Deputy Clerk


                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                                6
DATE   THURSDAY            OCTOBER      5, 2023


                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                  ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                           7
