                                             Planning and Development Services
                                             2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                             Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



                                            MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                   WHITE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                        Thursday, July 28, 2022 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 43 minutes                             *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 22                                        found on the State websites, or from Planning &
                                                                          Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Seiger-Webster

                                                     ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                   Public     Business                                                          Public      Business
         Commissioners                                   Absent                  Planning Staff / DA
                                    Mtg         Mtg                                                              Mtg          Mtg
  Christy Seiger-Webster (Chair)     x           x
     Christopher Spagnuolo                                 x                        Wendy Gurr                     x            x
    Robert Frailey (Vice Chair)      x           x                                  Erin O’Kelley                  x            x
           Gene Wilson               x           x                                 Kayla Mauldin                   x            x
         Antoinette Blair                                  x                        Jay Springer                   x            x
    Weston Millen (Alternate)        x           x
     Christopher Huntzinger          x           x


                                                BUSINESS MEETING

                                             Meeting began at – 6:02 p.m.
    1) Election of Chair and Vice Chair 2022. (Motion/Voting)
       Election of Chair for 2022
       Motion: To nominate Commissioner Seiger-Webster as Chair for 2022, Commissioner Seiger-
       Webster accepted that nomination.
              Motion by: Commissioner Seiger-Webster
              2nd by: Commissioner Millen
              Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
         Election of Vice Chair for 2022
         Motion: To nominate Commissioner Frailey as Vice Chair for 2022, Commissioner Frailey
         accepted that nomination.
                Motion by: Commissioner Seiger-Webster
                2nd by: Commissioner Millen
                Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

    2) Approval of the April 28, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve minutes from the April 28, 2022 Planning Commission Meeting.
             Motion by: Commissioner Millen
             2nd by: Commissioner Wilson

White City Planning Commission – July 28, 2022 – Meeting Summary                                                       Page 1 of 4
                Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    3) Other Business Items (as needed)
       No other business items to discuss.

                                            PUBLIC HEARING(S)
                                         Hearings began at – 6:09 p.m.

Public Hearing to review the amendments to the White City Moderate Income Housing Plan, a supplemental
document to the White City General Plan. These amendments are per new state legislation that was signed
into law on March 4th, 2022. The legislation became effective on June 1, 2022. The Moderate-Income
Housing Plan is required to be updated by October 1st, 2022, in order to be in compliance with new laws.
Planner: Erin O’Kelley (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed public hearing item after taking comments from the
public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s
rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three
minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Long Range Planner Erin O’Kelley provided an analysis of
amendments to the Moderate-Income Housing Plans.

Commissioner Millen motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Frailey seconded that motion.
Commissioners voted unanimous in favor.

                               PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Citizen
Name: Lina Barkey
Address: 10237 South Zinnia Way
Comments: Ms. Barkey said associated to the community. Asked after five-year study is completed and
462 not feasible will White City be impacted. Asked about 23% rent is based of 149 rentals. What is last
use regulation? One through three focusing on, okay with that, but the rest sound like RDA. Lots on 10600
not very deep. Where are we in the plan, with this amendment does it reset and roll every year based on
new regulations.

Speaker # 2: Citizen
Name: Kristine Welk
Address: 9810 Sego Lily Drive
Comments: Ms. Welk asked if multiple dwellings would have to rezone, the whole area would not change.
Are sidewalks failing and might not replace trees or fences and would replace with chain link.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Scott Little
Address: 854 East Hollyhock
Comments: Mr. Little said one thing we ought to do is look at the tip dollars that we are only going to do
three, without knowing what we’re giving up. In his experience, legislature seems to be full of developers,
and think as a community speak to the legislators and ask for exemption. Have to have multiple-family
housing and isn’t a space to do that. If community building out should plan for that, but encourage people
running and might be able to get things changed.

White City Planning Commission – July 28, 2022 – Meeting Summary                                Page 2 of 4
Ms. O’Kelley said after 5 years will they be negatively impacted how will this work, state legislation has
room to adjust. If we issue to that state, the state could be issued a non-compliance and a letter will be
issued to the Council before penalized. 43% rent burden is based on renter households. Single room
occupancy is like multiple members of a group, long term rentals. It does start over and will be in year zero.
5-year plan from 2022 to 2027.

Penalties of non-compliance and ineligible for applying for grants.

No, this is not a document that will impose or trigger rezones. Land use regulations is talking about
changing the code, existing zone would be modified.

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding multi-family compliance.

Speaker # 4: Citizen
Name: Nick West
Address: 1011 East Violet Drive
Comments: Mr. West said if only must do 3 and apply for 5, leaves open for grants and can amend if they
don’t do the other two and can amend after they decide what works.

Speaker # 5: Citizen
Name: Randy Hoggan
Address: 9930 Poppy Lane
Comments: Mr. Hoggan said Airbnb successful in the near neighborhood, is any money coming back to
White City. If they got an ADU, will there be a fee. If I rent out the whole upstairs, do I have to do it as a
business. If I want to tear down my house and rebuild, can I rent out floors.

Ms. O’Kelley said if there was a natural disaster and your home was destroyed, State law and Utah law
allows to be rebuilt exactly as it was.

Speaker # 6: Citizen
Name: Kay Brown
Address: 946 East Buddlea Drive
Comments: Mr. Brown asked if this plan being implemented across the state. Sandy City would have a
larger footprint and White City doesn’t want to join Sandy City. He bought a home to appreciate and talking
about these strategies, it decreases the value of your home. Need to take an adverse role and holding people
accountable. What percentage must be moderate-income homes.

Ms. O’Kelley said State laws with populations over 5,000 required a Moderate-Income Housing Plan.

Speaker # 7: Citizen
Name: Anne Bailey
Address: 853 East Hollyhock
Comments: Ms. Bailey said moved in 1972 have seen a lot of good changes, but last few years have gone
downhill. When they speak of blight had a family member move away and came back and neighborhood
has changed for the bad. How do they hold rental owners accountable. Storage, cars in back yard, weeds
overgrown. No problem a basement into apartment or multi-family in same home, but the parking on the
street.

Commissioner Seiger-Webster said parking and other community impacts on increasing density.

White City Planning Commission – July 28, 2022 – Meeting Summary                                  Page 3 of 4
Speaker # 8: Citizen
Name: Lina Barkey
Address: 10237 South Zinnia Way
Comments: Ms. Barkey said last few years, everyone has been running businesses out of homes. Asked
about trails and google fiber.

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding said working with the entities like the Sego Lily
project, the water district is doing their repairs before sego lily is getting repaved. Strategies in plan and
decide don’t want to do it, would report to the state why’s and barrier’s and wouldn’t be penalized and
would work with the city to fill in the strategy. Things will have to be addressed, not considered, and based
on scenario, giving the best shot.

Commissioner Millen motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Huntzinger seconded that
motion. Commissioners voted unanimous in favor.

                               PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend amendments to the White City Moderate Income Housing Plan, a supplemental
document to the White City General Plan. These amendments are per new state legislation that was signed
into law on March 4th, 2022. The legislation became effective on June 1, 2022. The Moderate-Income
Housing Plan is required to be updated by October 1st, 2022, in order to be in compliance with new laws
approval to the White City Council with staff recommendations from the list of items and public comments
included.
       Motion by: Commissioner Millen
       2nd by: Commissioner Frailey
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

Ms. O’Kelley said comments will be included in the document and changes from the public comments
related to specific strategies. Will be reviewed on August 4th and September Council meeting for hearing.

Commissioner Wilson motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Millen seconded that motion. Commissioners
voted unanimous in favor.

                                           MEETING ADJOURNED
                                          Time Adjourned – 7:45 p.m.




White City Planning Commission – July 28, 2022 – Meeting Summary                                  Page 4 of 4
