                                              Planning and Development Services
                                              2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                              Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



                                             MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                    WHITE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                         Tuesday, May 20, 2025, 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 30 minutes                              *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 11                                         found on the State websites, or from Planning &
                                                                           Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Seiger-Webster

                                                    ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                    Public     Business                                                          Public      Business
         Commissioners                                    Absent                  Planning Staff / DA
                                     Mtg         Mtg                                                              Mtg          Mtg
  Christy Seiger-Webster (Chair)      x           x
 Christopher Spagnuolo (V. Chair)     x           x                                  Wendy Gurr                     x            x
    Weston Millen (Alternate)         x           x                                   Shad Cook                     x            x
      Christopher Huntzinger          x           x                                  Brian Tucker                   x            x
                                                                                     Jay Springer                   x            x


                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 6:01 p.m.
    1) Approval of April 22, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting minutes.
       Motion: To approve April 22, 2025, Planning Commission Meeting minutes.
             Motion by: Commissioner Spagnuolo
             2nd by: Commissioner Hunsaker
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor

    2) Other Business Items (as needed)
         Ms. Gurr reminded the commission of the planning commissioner training on May 28th.


                                                 PUBLIC HEARING(S)
                                              Hearing began at – 6:05 p.m.

OAM2025-001340 – An application to amend White City Code to create the Landscape Contractor Yard
use. This citizen-proposed ordinance change would allow the Landscape Contractor Yard use in the A-2
zone as permitted use. The proposal includes specific use standards and conditions associated with the use.
Applicant: Alex Smith. Planner: Shad Cook (Discussion/Recommendation)




White City Planning Commission – May 20, 2025 – Meeting Summary                                                         Page 1 of 4
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Shad Cook provided an analysis of the zone
amendment.

Commissioners, staff, and counsel had a brief discussion regarding the general plans perceived use for A-
2, 10600 south corridor for potentially mixed use, residential and small commercial, southern spur zoned
A-2 qualification, citizen initiation, permitted and conditional use difference, necessity use, and previous
rezone application on corridor mixed-use zone.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Applicant
Name: Alex Smith
Address: 1226 East 10600 South
Comments: Mr. Smith said he currently has a property business license for a nursery and is active, selling
public and plant materials. Main aim is to run landscape/contractor yard. Bring plants for their own purpose
to sell to clients. Skid steers come back and go to the job location. Trying to make this lesser impact than
the nursery operation with retail sales in and out and take down a notch and will not be a storage yard.
Secure fencing all around for materials in landscape projects. Property on 10600 meets the CMU
characteristics in the master plan, unsure of the denial. Understands the horse theme in the area with dimple
dell keeping it wild. Been in business 25 years and do good for the community and provide for our families.
Trying to get a home set up and neighbor has an A-2 and do something similar, and MJ is doing something
similar with an exception. Trying to stay within noise ordinance only properties on 10600, not private lane
down 1225.

Commissioner Seiger-webster asked if fencing meets the setback rules as far as visibility for turning out
onto roadways. Had applicable sections of ordinances, fencing is exempt from setback, 4–6-foot opaque
fence could meet the visibility. Smith said secure gates out of sight. Jay said text amendment. If it becomes
permitted use, it will come back to staff for approval. Hunsaker asked if the other two properties with
exceptions were located on 1225. Shad confirmed that they are on 10600.

Commissioner Seiger-Webster opened the public hearing.

Speaker # 2: Citizen
Name: Kristy Shelton
Address: 1224 East 10600 South
Comments: Ms. Shelton provided written bullet points (attached). Has never been contacted by the
applicant. Professionally works with three large landscaping companies and asked if they would purchase
a property not zoned commercial and would not be a good idea. Asked for denial.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Mike McCarty
Address: 10750 South 1225 East
Comments: Mr. McCarty said he lived there forty years. The privilege of living in White City is a journey,
residential area for agriculture and family. Mr. smith has been quiet and hasn’t bothered us, but the
mobilization will change. Scares him that if this goes through and what will happen to the next owner.
Motivation would be different if he was a resident.

Speaker # 4: Citizen
Name: Chariti Wild
Address: 1204 East 10600 South


White City Planning Commission – May 20, 2025 – Meeting Summary                                  Page 2 of 4
Comments: Ms. Wild said across from and highly impacted. Things like commercial and dumping of
aggravate is scary for horses and impact riding situations. Unclear what he can’t do but wants to do or
dumping, hissing and loading sounds for riding population.

Speaker # 5: Citizen
Name: Heidi Savage
Address: 1204 East 10600 South
Comments: Ms. Savage said even though they are proposing the business going in and out of 10600 but
still take 1225 and run into fence and did but hasn’t been fixed. 6-foot opaque fence is not in compliance
with the road, should be back 11-12 feet and block the road. Move the fence either way. Work with special
needs population and traffic on 10600 is barely manageable and to add more makes it difficult.

Speaker # 6: Citizen
Name: Deanna Bierman
Address: 10678 South 1225 East
Comments: Ms. Bierman said she lived there for 36 years. The MSD talked about contractor storage yards
only allowed in industrial areas. Concerns in proposal definition generic construction business, if sold and
another business comes in applied to construction not just landscape. Never seen plants and only seen
retaining walls and blocks. Hours of operation 7am-9pm, this is residential. Currently the property has a
Verizon cell tower. Worked at fighting to have a cell tower in and finally approved after 20 years and is
now faded and didn’t hide the cell tower components and an enclosed building. Was supposed to access
from 10600, but access at 1225. Mr. Smith knew ahead of time the zone and purchased anyway and expected
us to accept.

Speaker # 7: Citizen
Name: Jim Mitchell
Address: 10692 South 1225 East
Comments: Mr. Mitchell said it is still a residential area and respected as residential. The fence needs to
be moved and at the entrance is marked at 10600. Has rented the house out and has 10-12 cars parked in a
single-family residence.

Commissioner Millen read an email from Michael Landis (attached).

Commissioner Hunsaker read an email from Bill Stoddard (attached).

Commissioner Spagnuolo motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Millen seconded that
motion.
                        PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff advised they have spent a lot of time working on the general plan with community
involvement, recent code change, allowed uses, recommendations and 10600 corridor overlays, conditions
with hours and use running with the property and 10600 access. Collect permitted nursery uses and vehicle
class.

Motion: To continue application #OAM2025-001340 application to amend White City Code to create the
Landscape Contractor Yard use. This citizen-proposed ordinance change would allow the Landscape
Contractor Yard use in the A-2 zone as permitted use. The proposal includes specific use standards and
conditions associated with the use to the June 24th White City planning commission meeting to allow MSD
staff and applicant time to refine and discuss citizen concerns.
        Motion by: Commissioner Seiger-Webster


White City Planning Commission – May 20, 2025 – Meeting Summary                                 Page 3 of 4
        2nd by: Commissioner Spagnuolo
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor



OAM2025-001375 – Consideration of a resolution amending White City’s land use fee schedule.
Presenter: Brian Hartsell (Discussion/Recommendation)

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planning Manager Brian Tucker provided an analysis of the
land use fee schedule amendment.

Commissioners, staff, and counsel had a brief discussion regarding fee recovery and penalties.

Commissioner Seiger-Webster opened the public hearing.

No one from the public is present to speak.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend application # OAM2025-001375 Consideration of a resolution amending White
City’s land use fee schedule to the White City Council for approval.
        Motion by: Commissioner Spagnuolo
        2nd by: Commissioner Millen
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimously in favor

                                          HEARING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 7:31 p.m.




White City Planning Commission – May 20, 2025 – Meeting Summary                                  Page 4 of 4
From:              Michael Wild
To:                Wendy Gurr
Subject:           Planning meeting tonight
Date:              Tuesday, May 20, 2025 1:14:02 PM



   You don't often get email from mwildmd@gmail.com. Learn why this is important


I am Michael Landis, one of the property owners at



I am writing to express my concerns regarding the proposed zoning change for the property owned by
Alex Smith, which is adjacent to my property located at                         . I am not in favor of the
proposed zoning change for several reasons that I believe are critical to consider.

Firstly, the lane that currently exists between our properties is a private right of way intended for ingress
and egress, of homeowners down the lane. According to the plat map, this lane is supposed to be a 50-
foot roadway, with 25 feet allocated from each of our properties. However, Mr. Smith has installed a fence
that encroaches on approximately 15 feet of the easement on his side, and he has also landscaped this
area, making the easement inaccessible. The plat map clearly states that "the roadway shall be
maintained in a manner which allows ease of access and passage of emergency vehicles through the
entire length of the roadway." As it stands, he is in violation of the current lot restrictions.

Additionally, the current size and condition of the road are inadequate for the plans Mr. Smith has
proposed. There have already been incidents where Mr. Smith has damaged my fence with his vehicles,
and these damages have not been repaired. The lane is a private right of way and should not be used for
commercial purposes, especially given the insufficient space for the equipment and increased traffic that
would result from a zoning change.

Mr. Smith's disregard for the current zoning regulations and neighboring properties raises significant
concerns about his ability to responsibly manage any changes that might be approved. I urge the
committee to consider these issues carefully before making any decisions that could impact the
community and the existing property rights.

Thank you for considering my concerns. I am available for any further discussions or to provide additional
information if needed.
From:           staff offic
To:             Wendy Gurr
Cc:             Deanna Bierman;
Subject:        Re: hearing
Date:           Tuesday, May 20, 2025 1:27:11 PM
Attachments:    image001.png



Wendy,

Thank you for the clarification regarding the timing of the notice, I was surprised. As I
mentioned earlier, I am unable to attend, Please include my comments in the meeting tonight.

After reviewing the proposed changes to the language regarding expanded/allowed uses of
properties within our unique community, I am dismayed.
The planning and zoning committees have historically worked hand in hand with this
community to ensure that the allowed enterprises within this ever- shrinking AG space would
be restricted and preserved.  
The county, city and its representatives have always seemed wholly supportive of making sure
the threat of commercial creep doesn't get footing here, and start to dramatically alter the
intended use of the properties within its scope.
This language reads to provide for the allowance/establishment of wide-ranging general
contracting activities and businesses within our primarily equestrian and residential AG
community.
What is more disheartening is that there is an appearance that the applicant may have finally
established a sympathetic ear in proposing the redrafting of these seemingly simple, but
dramatic language alterations, particularly since this issue continues to raise its head after
being repeatedly shut down, and after the community majority has consistently made our
voices heard in opposition.
I am against the expansion/restructuring of this language to allow for expanded commercial
general construction activities within our Community.

Respectfully,



William R. Stoddard
Executive At Large

Sandy, Utah 84094


From: Wendy Gurr <wgurr@msd.utah.gov>
Sent: Tuesday, May 20, 2025 10:35 AM
To: staff offic <
