Mikala Jordan
Long Range Planner

MJordan@msd.utah.gov

WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP — GENERAL PLAN STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING
23 FEBRUARY 2021 6:00 PM-— 7:00 PM, WEBEX MEETING

ATTENDEES

White City Steering Committee Members: Tyler Huish, David Quinney, Renee Sutton, and Greg Shelton.
Planning Staff: Wendy Gurr, Mikala Jordan, Todd Andersen
White City Members of the Public: 7

MEETING SUMMARY

Chairman Huish welcomed the group, and planning staff began the meeting. Staff addressed four questions
asked at the previous meeting. Mikala then presented data on health indicators for White City. Then the
committee discussed and generated goals related to Governance, Economic Opportunities, Aging in
Community, and Resilience and Sustainability. Per the Chair’s request, staff provided example statements
to assist with brainstorming. Planning staff closed the meeting by identifying the next two (and potentially
last two) meeting dates and times: March 9" and 23", from 6:00 pm to 7:30 pm.

*In this report, staff has included two suggestions to consider in italics.
OUTCOMES

LIFELONG COMMUNITIES DRAFT GOALS

Drafted goals related to lifelong communities are shown below. The theme of lifelong communities
addressed by the goal is included in parentheses:

e Foster transparency, collaboration, and clear communication among officials, staff, the public,
and other agencies. (Governance)

e Enhance and expand digital infrastructure to support home-based work, entertainment, and
education opportunities. (Economic Opportunities)

e Support small-scale local and home-based businesses with access to resources for financial
assistance and/or business training and education. (Economic Opportunities)

e Ensure that the built environment supports people of all ages and abilities, allowing safe and easy

Mikala Jordan
Long Range Planner

MJordan@msd.utah.gov

o *Mikala’s suggestion: Combine the above two - “Improve the quality of the natural
environment and mitigate negative environmental impacts in built environment
decisions.”

Maintain and make needs-appropriate improvements to infrastructure to support the resilience
of the built environment. (Resilience & Sustainability)

The Committee considered including a goal addressing retirement age and economic resources, and they
asked to keep thinking about this between meetings. Thus far, it reads, “Provide support for retirement
through...” The Committee will finalize this at the next meeting.

NEXT STEPS

e

Finish Lifelong Communities element (3/9).

Work on and finish Work Program(3/9 & 3/22).

Discuss feedback from Planning Commission and Council (3/9 & 3/22).
Agree to a final Plan to pass along to the Planning Commission (3/22).
(Inthe future) send out Engineering Reports when published

PLANNING COMMISSION FEEDBACK ON CHAPTERS 1,2,3 AND4

A Planning Commission meeting followed the Steering Committee meeting. Their feedback on the draft
chapters is included below for the Steering Committee to review and think about before the next meeting.

Intro Chapters (1-3):

Page 10 - Section 3—Add a brief summary of the chapters - Section 4— Add a brief summary of the
work program.

Page 8 - Should we move the state requirement of the General Plan to the first of the list ?

They liked page 9 a lot.

Make figure on page 9 bigger if possible.

They loved chapter 2.

Page 14- The timeline events and flowchart indicator is difficult to follow. They advised
reconsidering its design.

Page 18 - They loved the clarification on blight.

Mikala Jordan
Long Range Planner

MJordan@msd.utah.gov

e = They liked how we demystify zoning when we talk about needing to rezone Big Bear Park as

park/open space.
e Is the park really zoned SFR? (Yes, it is).
e Would the County have to apply for a rezone? (We will follow up).

e They liked the suggestions to turn regular, needed infrastructure into creative spaces with
personality and color (placemaking, traffic calming, etc.).

e = They liked the Character Areas section.

e They suggested adding a header (of the specific Character Area) to each page in case someone
skips a page, or usinga color theme.

e = They liked the 106 Transitional Area section. On page 54 or within the intro area, talk about the
impact of adjacent communities/influences on this road. Other jurisdictions may have other ideas
about this road.

e They advise to look carefully at prohibitive uses for 106 S. Can we be more clear about what is
allowed or notin the 106th zone (strip malls etc) ?

e ADUs...wondering about their role in this doc.

e =6***Staffresponded that pending state legislation, if passed, will influence this. The State
may passa bill that requires every single family zone in Utah to allow ADUs.

e = They liked that we address that there are conflicting opinions, and they liked that we show all of
the opinions.

2019 —2021 “PARKING LOT” OF IDEAS
01/28/2020- 2/24/2021

e Parking at Bear Park, Quincy Pool, and other public places

e Water quality and parking on lawns

e Bell View property crossing by students

e Protecting private property rights - Decided to add as overarching value in 3/31/20 Meeting
e Private property location for writing in General Plan - Completed 3/31/20

e Ground Rule review — Each meeting

