Mikala Jordan
Long Range Planner
MJordan@msd.utah.gov




        WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP – GENERAL PLAN STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING
                          9 MARCH 2021 6:00 PM – 7:30 PM, WEBEX MEETING

ATTENDEES

White City Steering Committee Members: Tyler Huish, David Quinney, Renee Sutton, and Greg Shelton.
Planning Staff: Wendy Gurr, Mikala Jordan, Jim McNulty
White City Members of the Public: 5

MEETING SUMMARY

Chairman Huish welcomed the group, and planning staff began the meeting. First, the Steering Committee
finalized goals for the Lifelong Communities element. Then the Steering Committee shared their thoughts
on the draft Lifelong Communities element. Next, staff reviewed the feedback from the Planning
Commission and Council on the drafts of chapters 1-4 of the General Plan. The Steering Committee
discussed the feedback and determined which changes they wanted to make. Planning staff asked for
reactions and comments on the Glossary and Frequently Asked Questions draft. The Steering Committee
voted to post the designed draft Transportation Chapter and the Glossary and Frequently Asked Questions
Chapter on the website. Finally, the meeting closed by identifying the next two meeting dates for March
23rd and a day to-be-determined in April.

OUTCOMES

LIFELONG COMMUNITIES GOALS
Drafted goals related to lifelong communities were reviewed and discussed. The following goals were
agreed upon:

    •   Foster transparency, collaboration, and clear communication among officials, staff, the public,
        and other agencies.
    •   Enhance and expand digital infrastructure to support home-based work, entertainment, and
        education opportunities.
    •   Support small-scale local and home-based businesses with access to resources for financial
        assistance and/or business training and education.
    •   Ensure that the built environment supports people of all ages and abilities, allowing safe and easy
        navigation within the community as well as access to important places outside the community.
    •   Strengthen resilience through emergency preparedness and response.
    •   Improve the quality of the natural environment and mitigate negative environmental impacts in
        built environment decisions.
    •   Maintain and make needs-appropriate improvements to infrastructure to support the resilience
        of the built environment.
    •   Preserve the heart of White City’s character.
Additionally, the Steering Committee requested an action in the Work Program related to propagating
information and resources to older adults for home repair and accessibility retrofits.
Mikala Jordan
Long Range Planner
MJordan@msd.utah.gov




FEEDBACK FROM PLANNING COMMISSION AND COUNCIL
All of the feedback from the Planning Commission and Council on Chapters 1-4 were shared with the
Steering Committee and discussed. The Steering Committee agreed to the changes suggested by the
Planning Commission for Chapters 1-4. The Steering Committee agreed to the changes suggested by the
Council for Chapters 1-3, with the caveat that the items related to the law were run by the legal team.
The Steering Committee agreed to the following in response to the Council’s feedback on Chapter 4.
Goal Statement wordings:
         LU1: Ensure that effective land use planning is kept in balance with preserving the freedom and
         rights of individual landowners.
         LU2: Maintain and promote White City’s neighborhood-scale housing character (primarily
         detached residences) while also promoting a quality of life that attracts and sustains new families
         and the housing needs of the Salt Lake valley.
         LU3: Promote a sense of pride and identity in the community through maintaining and enhancing
         place-making infrastructure.
         LU4: Establish landscaping and maintenance standards that make White City a distinctly scenic, fun
         and appealing place to live and visit.
         LU5: Enhance recreational amenities and access to public parks and open spaces.
         LU6: All land use decisions include efforts toward mitigating or improving the air and water quality.
Other:
         Clarify vacant parcels on page 40.
The Steering Committee ran out of time to discuss the rest of the feedback and requested that staff begin
an email chain to elicit additional comments from the Committee. Staff began an email chain on 3/12.
FEEDBACK ON LIFELONG COMMUNITIES ELEMENT AND GLOSSARY AND FAQ CHAPTER
The Steering Committee liked the draft Lifelong Communities element and had few suggestions for changes
at this time. The Committee asked for a pixilated image to be fixed and asked for the SWOT and APAE
section to be reorganized. The Committee agreed to staff’s suggestion that they wanted to add more
explanatory text at the beginning of the chapter. Lastly, the Committee suggested a heading design change
for the Glossary and FAQ chapter, and one committee member wanted to brainstorm a FAQ regarding
private property and property rights.
NEXT STEPS

    •    Discuss Feedback from the online comment boxes 3/23.
    •    Work on and finish Work Program 3/23.
    •    Agree to a final Plan to pass along to the Planning Commission 4/TBD.
Mikala Jordan
Long Range Planner
MJordan@msd.utah.gov




                                 2019 – 2021 “PARKING LOT” OF IDEAS

01/28/2020 – 3/9/2021

    •   Parking at Bear Park, Quincy Pool, and other public places
    •   Water quality and parking on lawns
    •   Bell View property crossing by students
    •   Protecting private property rights - Decided to add as overarching value in 3/31/20 Meeting
    •   Private property location for writing in General Plan - Completed 3/31/20
    •   Ground Rule review – Each meeting
    •   Steering Committee membership - Completed 3/31/20
    •   Reviewing what a General Plan is and what the process for approval is - Completed in Meeting
        Report from 25 February 2020
    •   Chair/vice-chair, and terms and timeline - Completed 3/31/20
    •   Understanding local government - Completed in Meeting Report from 25 February 2020
    •   Discuss “create purposeful, designated areas for public transportation” action item - Completed
        7/28/20
    •   Logo ideating and discussion – Determined to be unwanted.
