Mikala Jordan
Long Range Planner
MJordan@msd.utah.gov




        WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP – GENERAL PLAN STEERING COMMITTEE MEETING
                        9 FEBRUARY 2021 6:00 PM – 7:30 PM, WEBEX MEETING

ATTENDEES

White City Steering Committee Members: Tyler Huish, David Quinney, Renee Sutton, Greg Shelton, and
Zachary Zundel.
Planning Staff: Wendy Gurr, Mikala Jordan, Todd Andersen, Jim McNulty
White City Members of the Public: 2

MEETING SUMMARY

After Chairman Huish welcomed the group, planning staff opened the meeting. Staff introduced the
concept of Lifelong Communities, which is the topic of the last element of the General Plan. White City’s
Lifelong Communities element consists of four themes: Governance, Economic Opportunities, Aging in
Community, and Resilience and Sustainability. Staff provided background information on each theme and
linked existing public feedback to these themes. Steering Committee members asked questions and shared
reactions to the topics. Then, actions related to land use were discussed. A few edits were requested. The
Committee affirmed that the draft Land Use chapter could be passed on to the Planning Commission and
Council for feedback. Planning staff closed the meeting by identifying the next meeting date and time.

OUTCOMES

LAND USE ACTION FEEDBACK
Drafted land use actions were sent to the Steering Committee for review prior to this meeting. The draft
statements are in navy blue text, and the requested edits are in red.

            a. Provide planning commissioners with annual training to ensure that commissioners make
               data-backed, fiscally responsible, and legally viable land use recommendations.
            b. Communicate to Parks and Recreation the importance of Dimple Dell Regional Park to
               White City, via collaboration on issues of access to and preservation of the park.
            c. Maintain or improve the existing parks level of service.
            d. Propagate the MSD Citizen Problem Reporter.
            e. Increase transparency with the MSD Citizen Problem Reporter by providing feedback on
               submitted tickets.
            f. Share the General Plan with WFRC, UDOT, UTA, Sandy City, Parks and Recreation, Public
               Works, Engineering, and Economic Development.
            g. Audit and update zoning ordinances to reflect White City's needs and preferences as
               outlined in this General Plan; create a working group to do so and follow an extensive
               public process.
Mikala Jordan
Long Range Planner
MJordan@msd.utah.gov




            h. Rezone Bear Park into an open space/park zone to better ensure its long term
               preservation.
            i. Audit and update the ordinances as they relate to code enforcement, property
               maintenance, and parking to address issues of compliance.
            j. Provide a report on potential locations for and costs of various place-making strategies in
               White City to the community, including potential grants to support such projects.
            k. Create a working group to identify design standards for potential future small-scale mixed
               use on 10600 South, including transparency, building height, and other standards as
               identified in this General Plan.
            l. Provide elected and appointed officials with data and best practices on land use planning,
               via a presentation and accompanying report every even year.
            m. Host an educational open house regarding code enforcement and building permitting
               rules, regulations, and processes.
            n. Support community efforts to accomplish the annual Southeast Township Day and host an
               informational booth on planning projects.
            o. Utilize existing and emerging technologies to support transparency among PDS, MTC, PC,
               and White City residents.
            p. Partner with the Community Council to share information via their newsletter.
            q. Continue maintaining an up-to-date, online hub of planning information and resources
               tailored to White City.
            r. Investigate barriers to participation in planning processes and develop an action plan to
               reduce these.
            s. Explore options to purchase and put up community bulletin boards, in public places in
               White City both north and south of Dimple Dell, for meeting postings, community events,
               directions to municipal websites, and other key community information.
            t. Meet with Engineering and Public Utilities to highlight the importance of water sensitive
               infrastructure practices in White City to protecting the water supply.
            u. Develop and distribute educational information (brochures, website content, etc.) about
               code enforcement rules, regulations, and ways to come into compliance.
            v. Develop and distribute educational information (brochures, website content, etc.) about
               reinforced masonry, energy efficiency, and home improvement, including any programs or
               grants that can aid residents in such efforts.
            w. Develop and distribute educational information (brochures, website content, etc.) about
               firesafe landscaping and defensible yards, especially to residences bordering Dimple Dell
               Regional park.
            x. Work with White City Water Improvement District to develop educational information
               (brochures, website content, etc.) about waterwise landscaping in yards and water
               sensitive home practices.
Mikala Jordan
Long Range Planner
MJordan@msd.utah.gov




             y. Discuss with Engineering and Public works the use of waterwise landscaping in park strips
                and the public-right-of-way of streets.
             z. Update sign ordinance to ensure compatibility with White City's character areas.



LIFELONG COMMUNITIES DISCUSSION - THOUGHTS SHARED BY COMMITTEE MEMBERS
    •   Governance:
            o Understand the vision of White City and successfully execute it.
            o Plan for the future needs of residents with transportation and land use.
            o Ensure rights are not infringed upon by others.
            o Encourage participation in civic matters.
                     Youth Council (suggestion by staff)
    •   Economic Opportunities:
            o What sorts of taxes get collected in White City and how do they translate into funds for
                projects/maintenance?
            o Does White City benefit from contractors who pay a business license fee in White City?
            o Give residents ideas and examples about types of businesses they could run from their
                home, and the types of businesses that White City would want to see.
            o Provide resources for new businesses – contacts, grants, understanding how to meet
                standards, etc.
                     Let the governing body be a partner rather than an enforcer.
    •   Aging in Community
            o Protect the way of life of elderly residents.
            o Empathize with the amount of change that elderly residents have seen and why they
                moved into the community in the first place.
            o Consider trip hazards in sidewalks (roots, uneven pavement, etc.).
            o Consider width of sidewalks, etc.
            o Investigate crosswalk times (staff suggestion).
    •   Resilience and Sustainability
            o Earthquake fallout is the biggest natural threat: could the community partner with an
                insurance company for a baseline earthquake insurance rate? This may make is less
                expensive and more attainable for residents, and therefore help with resilience.
NEXT STEPS

    •   Planning staff sends out draft Land Use chapter to PC and Council and uploads to the website.
    •   Progress Lifelong Communities element.
    •   Planning staff researches answers to questions raised by Committee about finances, code
        enforcement, and earthquake insurance.
    •   Discuss feedback from Planning Commission and Council.
    •   (In the future) send out Engineering Reports when published
Mikala Jordan
Long Range Planner
MJordan@msd.utah.gov




                                 2019 – 2021 “PARKING LOT” OF IDEAS

01/28/2020 – 1/5/2021

    •   Parking at Bear Park, Quincy Pool, and other public places
    •   Water quality and parking on lawns
    •   Bell View property crossing by students
    •   Protecting private property rights - Decided to add as overarching value in 3/31/20 Meeting
    •   Private property location for writing in General Plan - Completed 3/31/20
    •   Ground Rule review – Each meeting
    •   Steering Committee membership - Completed 3/31/20
    •   Reviewing what a General Plan is and what the process for approval is - Completed in Meeting
        Report from 25 February 2020
    •   Chair/vice-chair, and terms and timeline - Completed 3/31/20
    •   Understanding local government - Completed in Meeting Report from 25 February 2020
    •   Discuss “create purposeful, designated areas for public transportation” action item - Completed
        7/28/20
    •   Logo ideating and discussion – Determined to be unwanted.
    •
