                                                 Planning and Development Services
                                                 2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                                 Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



                                                MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                       WHITE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                           Thursday, August 26, 2021 6:00 p.m.
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 19 minutes                                 *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 24                                            found on the State websites, or from Planning &
                                                                              Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Seiger-Webster

                                                         ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                       Public     Business                                                          Public      Business
          Commissioners                                      Absent                  Planning Staff / DA
                                        Mtg         Mtg                                                              Mtg          Mtg
 Christy Seiger-Webster (V Chair)        x           x
      Christopher Spagnuolo                                    x                        Wendy Gurr                     x            x
           Robert Frailey                x           x                                  Erin O’Kelley                  x
     Gene Wilson (Alternate)             x           x                                   Travis Hair                   x            x
          Antoinette Blair               x           x                                  Paul Ashton                    x            x
      Weston Millen (Chair)                                    x
  Christopher Huntzinger (Alternate)                           x


Commissioner Seiger-Webster read the Chairs Opening Statement.

                                                    BUSINESS MEETING

                                                 Meeting began at – 6:03 p.m.
    1) Approval of the May 25, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve the May 25, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Blair
             2nd by: Commissioner Wilson
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)

    2) Other Business Items (as needed)

          No other business items to discuss.

                                                    PUBLIC HEARING(S)
                                                 Hearings began at – 6:07 p.m.

OAM2021-000347 - A proposal to amend the existing Floodplain Ordinance in Section 19.74 of the White
City Municipal Code. This update will replace the existing Section 19.74 with new language that conforms
with current State of Utah and FEMA requirements. Planner: Travis Hair (Motion/Voting)

White City Planning Commission – August 26, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                                         Page 1 of 6
The Planning Commission will act on the proposed public hearing items after taking comments from the
public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s
rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three
minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Travis Hair provided an analysis of the Floodplain
Ordinance. Commissioner Seiger-Webster confirmed the park referenced is Dimple Dell.

Commissioner Blair motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Wilson seconded that motion.

                               PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Citizen
Name: Michelle Luchner
Address: 11400 Sego Lily Drive
Comments: Ms. Luchner said she lives on her own floodplain. Gets the water from the school and White
City and sandy are battling who will fix the leak at the bottom of the driveway. Can’t get out of her driveway.
Last week she had to dig out her yard, because all debris pulls in front of her house. House built in 1964
and is time to have this fixed.

Mr. Hair said needs to be worked out and not part of FEMA and mapped floodplains in case of disaster.
Commissioner Seiger-Webster said will forward on to storm water department.

Speaker # 2: Citizen
Name: Lucious
Address: 1091 East Larksburg Drive
Comments: Lucious asked what is considered Dimple Dell Park.

Mr. Hair said the channel at the bottom of Dimple Dell Park at the gully and no development in that
foreseeable future.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Scott Little
Address: 854 East Hollyhock Avenue
Comments: Mr. Little asked about the area, isn’t any requirements. Mr. Hair said no special area and only
in the hazard areas. RV’ parked at a house for more than 180 days, other ordinances still apply. Hate to see
pass any ordinance they don’t need and understands there are some that are needed, keep to a minimum.

Commissioner Blair motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Wilson seconded that motion.

                               PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Motion: To recommend file #OAM2021-000347 to amend the existing Floodplain Ordinance in Section
19.74 of the White City Municipal Code. This update will replace the existing Section 19.74 with new
language that conforms with current State of Utah and FEMA requirements to the White City Council for
approval as presented.
       Motion by: Commissioner Wilson
       2nd by: Commissioner Frailey
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


White City Planning Commission – August 26, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                 Page 2 of 6
OAM2021-000272 - A proposed ordinance creating Chapter 19.15 of the White City Municipal Code
allowing for and regulating Interior Accessory Dwelling Units (IADUs) in single-family detached
dwellings. Planner: Travis Hair (Motion/Voting)

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed public hearing items after taking comments from the
public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s
rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three
minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Planner Travis Hair provided an analysis of the proposed
ordinance.

Commissioner Blair asked about who qualifies. Mr. Hair said can exclude up to 25% and cannot be
arbitrary. Commissioner Blair confirmed they are not required to rent. Commissioner Wilson said pieces
of property in his areas with buildings built on, how are they going to determine they have put in sewer and
water. Mr. Hair said will have to meet the checks for permits. Commissioner Wilson asked about tiny house
on wheels and is this part of that. Mr. Hair said no just addressing IADU, not external or tiny homes.

Commissioner Blair motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Wilson seconded that motion.

                               PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Speaker # 1: Citizen
Name: Scott Little
Address: 854 East Hollyhock Avenue
Comments: Mr. Little said looked at putting together and only deal with IADU. Legislature said need to
do them and allow to rent out basement. It’s a good thing to maybe rent out basement to assist in
maintenance and so forth. Younger families to make house more affordable. Intent wasn’t to deal with other
issues, and only internal and deal with statute the legislature passed. Licensing fee issue counterproductive
and maybe application fee and not have to pay recurring fee. State statute is owner occupied, and not turning
houses to duplexes. Ask commission to recommend with that change.

Speaker # 2: Citizen
Name: Lucious
Address: 1091 East Larksburg Drive
Comments: Lucious asked how renters not having to pay rent is affected and homeowner gets invaded.
Anyone renting doesn’t have to pay rent.

Mr. Ashton said she is talking about the moratorium and only affects people with rentals and has nothing
to do with this ordinance and it’s up to you if you choose to rent or not.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Earl Webster
Address: 9942 Electra Lane
Comments: Mr. Webster said he has multiple businesses with no fees. Recommend to committee as is and
some way to track.

Mr. Hair said on normal business license $150 no home type. Proposed $50 and we must track these, and
they need to get a business license and oversee people not doing what they are supposed to be doing.

White City Planning Commission – August 26, 2021 – Meeting Summary                               Page 3 of 6
Speaker # 4: Citizen
Name: Patrick Eldridge
Address: 10460 South Godatia Lane
Comments: Mr. Eldridge said has great deal of respect being done with housing shortage. Decided where
to live and see things take shape. Good option, no means to build detach, considered in the future to assure
safety and liability to modern code, detached ADUs for properties able to do that.

Mr. Hair provided the regulations as of October 1st.

Speaker # 5: Citizen
Name: Michelle Luchner
Address: 11400 Sego Lily Drive
Comments: Ms. Luchner asked how many people can legally be in the bounds per house.

Commissioner Seiger-Webster said owner occupied. Ms. Luchner said her neighbors have 25 people. Mr.
Hair said once above 12 to 16 you’re under a different building code, commercial building code.

Speaker # 6: Citizen
Name: Steve Chipman
Address: 824 East Hibiscus Avenue
Comments: Mr. Chipman asked if a provision to provide identification is existing or putting in IADU.

Mr. Hair said if doing the way they’re supposed to they would come and talk to the building department.
When it comes to someone doing on their own, becomes code enforcement.

Speaker # 7: Citizen
Name: Renee Christensen
Address: 999 East Violet Drive
Comments: Ms. Christensen asked if separate than renting out a bedroom.

Mr. Hair said only to create separate living space. Properties Airbnb’s aren’t currently allowed in White
City.

Speaker # 8: Citizen
Name: Patrick Eldridge
Address: 10460 South Godatia Lane
Comments: Mr. Eldridge asked the stance on interior ADU difference between White City and Salt Lake
County.

Commissioner Seiger-Webster said nothing now until October 1st.

Speaker # 9: White City Metro Township Counsel
Name: Paul Ashton
Address: Not provided
Comments: Mr. Ashton said right now there is no ADU’s allowed within the metro township, internal or
external. If in doubt call code enforcement. Based on recommendation will go the council.

Ms. Gurr read Councilmember Perry’s letter addressed to the Planning Commission.



White City Planning Commission – August 26, 2021 – Meeting Summary                               Page 4 of 6
Good evening, Planning Commission. My name is Allan Perry. My address is 10194 S Zinnia Way. For the
sake of transparency, I am a White City Councilmember; however, I did not participate in the Council sub-
committee that helped draft this ADU policy. My comments tonight are my own personal views on a few
items in this policy that I hope you will reconsider before making a final recommendation to the council.

I believe one of the biggest reasons the state of Utah addressed the ADU issue is to help address a need for
affordable housing options and provide more housing flexibility for individuals as well as families. I believe
there are 2 areas where this draft policy falls short in achieving these goals and the objectives outlined in
the draft itself.

These are:

- The restriction of Interior ADUs in A-1, A-2, or R-1-21 Zones; and
- The cap on family/occupant size in an Interior ADU

Let me explain my reasoning:

The decision to utilize the Interior ADU policy should generally be up to each homeowner (if their lot size
and home can support it) based on their home, their desire, and their individual goals. I see no reason why
A-1, A-2, or R-1-21 lots should be restricted. Those lots are larger, generally making it easier to
accommodate off street parking requirements or potential home additions if the homeowner desires. We
often mourn the loss of Agricultural zoned properties to higher density development, but one reason for a
loss of these properties in our communities is the cost of maintaining larger lots and animals. An Interior
ADU is another potential tool in the toolbox, if they choose, for homeowners who value these Agricultural
properties to be able to have additional income to support their upkeep of these properties.

One of the biggest benefits of Interior ADUs that I see is the flexibility it gives to homeowners at different
stages of their lives. For example, a single person may desire to purchase a home with an Interior ADU
knowing at some point they would like to raise a family there. In the meantime, they might like to build some
financial independence by living in the smaller portion of the home and renting the larger portion of the
home to a family. I have no problem with a cap of 4 on the number of independent adults renting an Interior
ADU, but it may not be uncommon in our community for a single parent or couple with 3 or more kids to
need an affordable housing option in a good community that an Interior ADU could provide. Providing
affordable housing for families should be an important goal. This hypothetical single homeowner or
perhaps a retired empty nester couple could easily live in the smaller portion of their home during those
periods of their lives and comfortably rent out the larger Interior ADU to a family of more than 4. This
would benefit the homeowner as well as a family in need of affordable housing at a time in their lives when
funds are likely already very tight. It's a win-win. I would encourage a cap of 4 adults, or up to 2 adults
with their dependent children (which could result in more than 4 persons). Or perhaps put a limit of 4 on
one occupied unit (primary dwelling or IADU), but not both.

I believe our community benefits when homeowners can stay in the community longer. As I've already tried
to demonstrate, the flexibility of an Interior ADU may allow a homeowner to stay in our community
throughout the different stages of their lives. A single person may live in the smaller portion of their home
and rent out the larger portion. If that homeowner starts their own family, they may transition to the larger
portion of the home and rent out the smaller portion. Or they may utilize the entire home depending on their
needs. Once their family is grown, they may find themselves wanting to live in the smaller portion of their
home again and benefit from some extra income into retirement. This flexibility benefits our residents by
allowing them to maintain more financial stability throughout their life as needed while also providing



White City Planning Commission – August 26, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                Page 5 of 6
more housing options (hopefully affordable options) for other individuals and families who are looking to
rent an Interior ADU.

Thank you for hearing my concerns, and I hope you'll consider changes to these 2 areas.

Commissioner Wilson motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Seiger-Webster seconded that
motion.

                               PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Commissioners and staff had a brief discussion regarding number of persons in the IADU unit.

Motion: To recommend file # OAM2021-000272 an ordinance creating Chapter 19.15 of the White City
Municipal Code allowing for and regulating Interior Accessory Dwelling Units (IADUs) in single-family
detached dwellings to the White City Metro Township Council condition to clarify the language in
19.15.040 number of residents be more explicit 4 persons in the rental portion of the IADU to the White
City Council for adoption.
       Motion by: Commissioner Seiger-Webster
       2nd by: Commissioner Blair
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


Commissioner Wilson adjourned.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 7:22 p.m.




White City Planning Commission – August 26, 2021 – Meeting Summary                             Page 6 of 6
