                                              Planning and Development Services
                                              2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                              Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



                                             MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                    WHITE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                         Tuesday, May 25, 2021 5:30 p.m.

                              **Meeting minutes approved August 26, 2021**
Approximate meeting length: 1 hour 19 minutes                              *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 5                                          found on the State websites, or from Planning &
                                                                           Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Millen

                                                    ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:
                                    Public     Business
         Commissioners                                    Absent                                                 Public      Business
                                     Mtg         Mtg                              Planning Staff / DA
 Christy Seiger-Webster (V Chair)     x           x                                                               Mtg          Mtg
      Christopher Spagnuolo           x           x                                  Wendy Gurr                     x            x
           Robert Frailey             x           x                                  Jim McNulty                    x            x
           Gene Wilson                            x                                   Kate Davies                   x            x
          Antoinette Blair            x           x                                 Kayla Mauldin                   x            x
      Weston Millen (Chair)           x           x                                  Jay Springer
     Christopher Huntzinger           x           x


                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 5:30 p.m.
Commissioner Millen read the OPMA statement and Chair Reading.

Commissioner Frailey motioned to close the business meeting portion of the agenda and open the public
hearings, Commissioner Blair seconded that motion.

                                                 PUBLIC HEARING(S)

OAM2021-000272 – Interior Accessory Dwelling Unit (IADU) Ordinance for recommendation to the
White City Council regarding: Creation of ordinance that allows for and regulates IADUs in single-family
detached dwellings. Presenter: Travis Hair (Motion/Voting)

Motion: To continue file #OAM2021-000272 Interior Accessory Dwelling Unit Ordinance to the June 22nd
planning commission meeting to allow for proper noticing.
       Motion by: Commissioner Millen
       2nd by: Commissioner Blair
       Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


White City Planning Commission – May 25, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                                         Page 1 of 2
Mr. Little questioned the anchor location and state of emergency. Mr. McNulty advised we have not been
informed to convene in person meetings and will continue meeting electronically until the board of trustees
advise to meet in person.

Commissioner Millen motioned to reopen the business meeting, Commissioner Frailey seconded that
motion.


                                    BUSINESS MEETING (Continued)

    1) Approval of the February 23, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve the February 23, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Seiger-Webster
             2nd by: Commissioner Spagnuolo
             Vote: Commissioner Millen abstained, all other commissioners voted in favor (of
             commissioners present). Motion passed.

    2) Review the Draft General Plan and any associated materials of interest, provide feedback, and
       decide on next steps to progress the Plan towards adoption. The Draft General Plan is posted on the
       website here: https://wc-lrp-gslmsd.hub.arcgis.com/. Presenter: Kate Davies

        Ms. Davies provided a PowerPoint presentation regarding the Draft General Plan. Commissioner
        Millen said having a horse on the cover page may be a niche for the community. Land Use Element
        number six should be reworded to maintain or improve air and water efforts.

        Discussed the Future Land Use Map, adding an as of date, update housing data and date accurate.

        Discussed ADU’s banning in certain zones, page 66.

        Discussed Transportation coordination with other entities, goal to maintain involvement with other
        agencies and transportation planning goals.

        Discussed next steps to have comment period and an open house in person. Confirmed postcards
        will be mailed identifying the date of the public hearing and adding to the postcard if hard copy of
        the draft General Plan is needed, may contact MSD staff, pending the MSD board meeting. Plan
        June for an open house and July for the public hearing.

    3) Other Business Items (as needed)

        No other business items to discuss.

Commissioner Seiger-Webster motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Wilson seconded that motion.

                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 6:49 p.m.




White City Planning Commission – May 25, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                  Page 2 of 2
