                                              Planning and Development Services
                                              2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050
                                              Phone: (385) 468-6700 • Fax: (385) 468-6674



                                             MEETING MINUTE SUMMARY
                                    WHITE CITY PLANNING COMMISSION MEETING
                                      Thursday, September 23, 2021 6:00 p.m.

                                **Meeting minutes approved April 28, 2022**
Approximate meeting length: 58 minutes                                     *NOTE: Staff Reports referenced in this document can be
Number of public in attendance: 25                                         found on the State websites, or from Planning &
                                                                           Development Services.
Summary Prepared by: Wendy Gurr
Meeting Conducted by: Commissioner Millen

                                                      ATTENDANCE
Commissioners and Staff:

                                    Public     Business
         Commissioners                                    Absent                                                 Public      Business
                                     Mtg         Mtg                              Planning Staff / DA
                                                                                                                  Mtg          Mtg
 Christy Seiger-Webster (V Chair)                           x
      Christopher Spagnuolo           x           x                                  Wendy Gurr                     x            x
           Robert Frailey             x           x                                  Erin O’Kelley                  x            x
     Gene Wilson (Alternate)                                x                       Kayla Mauldin                   x            x
          Antoinette Blair            x           x                               Lupita McClenning                 x            x
      Weston Millen (Chair)           x           x                                  Jay Springer                   x            x
     Christopher Huntzinger
                                                            x
            (Alternate)

                                                 BUSINESS MEETING

                                              Meeting began at – 6:02 p.m.
    1) Approval of the August 26, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
       Motion: To approve the August 26, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes as presented.
             Motion by: Commissioner Spagnuolo
             2nd by: Commissioner Millen
             Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
         Approval of the September 7, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes. (Motion/Voting)
         Motion: To continue the September 7, 2021 Planning Commission Meeting Minutes to the next
         meeting.
                Motion by: Commissioner Spagnuolo
                2nd by: Commissioner Millen
                Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)
    2) Other Business Items (as needed)

         No other business items to discuss.

         Commissioner Spagnuolo motioned to close the business meeting.

White City Planning Commission – September 23, 2021 – Meeting Summary                                                   Page 1 of 3
                                           PUBLIC HEARING(S)
                                        Hearings began at – 6:06 p.m.

The Planning Commission will hear a proposal to recommend adoption of the 2021 White City
General Plan. The drafted General Plan is the first Plan prepared for White City since its incorporation in
2017. By state code, General Plans are required to include considerations for land use, transportation, and
moderate income housing (White City adopted its Moderate Income Housing Plan in 2019). This Plan
additionally considers Lifelong Communities, a chapter dedicated to helping residents age in place.
Planner: Erin O’Kelley (Motion/Voting)

The public may view the draft General Plan prior to the hearing at: https://bit.ly/whitecity-generalplan.

The Planning Commission will act on the proposed public hearing item after taking comments from the
public during the public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s
rules of conduct, which are attached to the back of this agenda. Public comments will be limited to three
minutes per person.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Long Range Planner Erin O’Kelley provided a presentation
regarding the process and timeline.

Commissioner Spagnuolo motioned to open the public hearing, Commissioner Millen seconded that motion.


                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING OPENED

Ms. Gurr read two emails received under public comment (attached).

Speaker # 1: Citizen
Name: Scott Little
Address: 854 East Hollyhock Avenue
Comments: Mr. Little read from a letter submitted after the meeting and attached to the minutes.

Commissioner Spagnuolo said when broke off from Unincorporated County, the code copied Salt Lake
County Code.

Speaker # 2: Citizen
Name: Daniel Herbert-Voss
Address: 974 East Platinum Way
Comments: Mr. Herbert-Voss said concern is something addressed. Pocket where houses look like dumps
and communicated with Salt Lake County and sent code enforcement with no changes and how do I know
the proposed will make changes.

Speaker # 3: Citizen
Name: Andrew Neilsen
Address: 1019 East Serpentine Way
Comments: Mr. Neilsen said concerns everything listed is generalized and high level. Seem to be in conflict
and hard to know what the plan will do for the community without specifics listed. Talks about bringing
tax base back in. general plan is too general and how goals are achieved.


White City Planning Commission – September 23, 2021 – Meeting Summary                            Page 2 of 3
Speaker # 4: Citizen
Name: Randy Hoggan
Address: 9930 South Poppy Lane
Comments: Mr. Hoggan said noticed Sego Lily Drive, only people have been notified not notified. He has
asked about sidewalks and asked about it and would be nice if they received a heads up if the grant received.
Neighbor across the street is a duplex and the owner owns additional houses, now is an Airbnb and effects
the neighbors. Asked if it is legal to have an Airbnb or still illegal. Wants to allot the remainder of his time
to Mr. Little to finish.

Speaker # 5: Citizen
Name: Scott Little
Address: 854 East Hollyhock Avenue
Comments: Mr. Little continued reading from his litter submitted after the meeting and attached.

Speaker # 6: Citizen
Name: Leonard Peterson
Address: 10352 South Crocus Street
Comments: Leonard said how does he get no parking signs in front of his house now that the new school
is built. He’s spoke to engineering and the mayor and informed he has to go back to the law enforcement
and he gets a ticket if he parks there.

Commissioners advised code enforcement and provided contact information.

Commissioner Spagnuolo motioned to close the public hearing, Commissioner Blair seconded that motion.

                              PUBLIC PORTION OF HEARING CLOSED

Commissioners had a brief discussion regarding general goals, land use codes, and zoning ordinances.

Motion: To recommend the White City General Plan to the White City Council for adoption as presented,
with language inserted recommending a revision of land use codes and zoning ordinances.
        Motion by: Commissioner Spagnuolo
        2nd by: Commissioner Millen
        Vote: Commissioners voted unanimous in favor (of commissioners present)


Commissioner Spagnuolo motioned to adjourn, Commissioner Millen seconded that motion.


                                          MEETING ADJOURNED
                                         Time Adjourned – 7:00 p.m.




White City Planning Commission – September 23, 2021 – Meeting Summary                               Page 3 of 3
