DATE           TUESDAY                                 AUGUST                            25, 2020

             THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
TUESDAY, AUGUST 25, 2020, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON TUESDAY, AUGUST 11,
2020, AT THE HOUR OF 6:00 P.M. VIA GOTOMEETING.COM.

COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT:             TRISH HULL
                                     BRINT PEEL
                                     STEVE PROKOPIS
                                     DAN PEAY, Mayor

COUNCIL MEMBER EXCUSED:              AUDREY PIERCE

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE:                PAUL ASHTON, LEGAL COUNSEL, MAGNA METRO
                                     TOWNSHIP
                                     GREG SCHULZ, STAFF, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Mayor Peay, Chair, presided.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                          Staff Meeting

               The Council discussed the following agenda items:

            Electronic meeting determination letter.
            Operation and maintenance of Magna Municipal parks.
            7900 West operation and maintenance of roadway.
            Discussion of installation of a streetlight at the corner of 3100 South and Lifestyle
             Lane.
            Status of 24-hour emergency building inspection services through the GSLMSD.
            Update on cemetery.
            Future meeting items.

             Council Member Hull, seconded by Council Member Peel, moved to close the staff
meeting and go into the public meeting. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                          Public Meeting

Electronic Meeting Determination Letter

               Greg Schulz read the following statement issued on August 7, 2020:

Consistent with the provisions of the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, specifically, Utah Code
Annotated Section 52-4-207, subsection 4, and acting in the capacity as Mayor of the Magna

                                                1
DATE             TUESDAY                                  AUGUST                             25, 2020

Metro Township, I, Dan Peay, hereby made the following determination in support of my decision
to hold and convene an electronic meeting of the Magna Metro Township Council without a
physical anchor location: 1) conducting the meetings with an anchor location that is physically
accessible for members of the public to attend in person presents a substantial risk to the health
and safety of those who may be present at the anchor location; 2) the determination is based on
the following facts, amongst others: a) pursuant to the public health orders issued by the state of
Utah and Salt Lake County, the Magna Metro Township remains under a state of public health
emergency related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and significant person to person
transmission of the virus continues to occur in Magna, amongst other items.

                                   ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                 Council Member Hull read the following “Reading/Thought”:

       “The world is changed by your example, not by your opinion.” Paulo Coelho

                                   ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Public Hearing

            THIS BEING THE TIME heretofore set for a public hearing to receive public
comment regarding the following request:

Ordinance 20-07-05 – Ordinance revising subdivision restrictions for certain areas in the
Overpressure Zone.

                Jay Springer, Legal Counsel, Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District,
reviewed the ordinance revising subdivision restrictions for certain areas within the 0.5 per square
inch (psi) overpressure area. This lifts the restriction prohibiting subdivisions of any kind in an 0.5
psi overpressure zone, and only that restriction. It will not allow for residential subdivisions or
anything like that within the overpressure zone. The 0.5 psi overpressure zone covers a very
small number of parcels, but they are large parcels. While developments can occur under the
development standards and zoning, not being able to subdivide has proved prohibitive.

               Council Member Hull, seconded by Council Member Peel, moved to open the
public hearing. The motion passed unanimously.

               Mark Elieson stated this ordinance is a phenomenal idea allowing some of those
properties in the 0.5 psi overpressure zone to be developed on smaller lots for industrial
commercial uses.

               Council Member Hull, seconded by Council Member Prokopis, moved to close the
public hearing. The motion passed unanimously.

ORDINANCE NO. 20-07-05                                                         Date: August 25, 2020



                                                  2
DATE           TUESDAY                                 AUGUST                           25, 2020

       AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL REVISING
       SUBDIVISION RESTRICTIONS   FOR  CERTAIN  AREAS   IN   THE
       OVERPRESSURE ZONE

       WHEREAS, Sections 19-76-270, 18.20.060, 15.14.030, 15.14.040, and 15.14.050 of the
Magna Code of Ordinances, without limitation, impose various restrictions on development within
the overpressure zone; and

        WHEREAS, Section 18.20.060 has previously restricted all subdivision of parcels within
the 0.5 psi overpressure area; and

       WHEREAS, the restriction on subdivisions is separate and distinct from the use, health
and safety, and other restrictions in place to protect Magna Metro Township and its residents and
workers from the overpressure zone; and

       WHEREAS, subdivision of parcels within the 0.5 psi overpressure area will allow
appropriate development subject to the use, zoning, and development restrictions affecting all
development within the overpressure zone and the 0.5 overpressure area; and

       WHEREAS, on July 9, 2020, the Magna Planning Commission reviewed and
recommended the adoption of the amendment contained in this ordinance, which staff and
attorney have reviewed; and

        WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council does hereby determine that it is in the
best interests of the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of Magna to amend the Magna
Code of Ordinances as stated herein.

      NOW THEREFORE, be it hereby ordained by the legislative body of the Magna Metro
Township:

       1.     Amendment to Section 18.20.060 of the Magna Code of Ordinances 2017.

       The third sentence of Section 18.20.060 of the Magna Code of Ordinances 2017, “New
       subdivisions shall not be approved in the 0.5 psi overpressure area.”, is hereby deleted
       and replaced with the following:

                      Subdivision approvals in the 0.5 psi overpressure area shall not alter or
                      modify any existing restrictions on the lot existing prior to subdivision,
                      including without limitation restricted uses, zoning designation, and
                      prohibitions identified in Section 19.76.3270 of the Magna Code of
                      Ordinances 2017, as amended.

       2.     This ordinance will take effect 15 days after its passage and upon at least one
              publication in a newspaper publishes in and having general circulation in Magna
              Metro Township of Salt Lake County, and if not so published within 15 days then
              it will take effect immediately upon its first publication.



                                               3
DATE           TUESDAY                                    AUGUST                         25, 2020

        APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Salt Lake County, Utah this 25th day of August,
2020.

                                                        By: /s/ DAN W. PEAY
                                                           Mayor
ATTEST

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSON
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder

             Council Member Hull, seconded by Council Member Peel, moved to approve
Ordinance No. 20-07-05. The motion passed unanimously.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Citizen Public Input

               No one spoke for citizen public input.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Reports from Community Stakeholders

Magna in Motion

              Keri Duckworth stated Magna in Motion has been doing online challenges to keep
people motivated and active through the pandemic, including a Facebook scavenger hunt
sponsored by Exodus, posting positive quotes on Facebook, and a school supply drive with the
COVID-19 Community Support Group. Magna in Motion wants to do something for Halloween,
and its Santa Stroll. It provides t-shirts for its Santa Stroll, so needs to let sponsors donating
money know whether that will get canceled.

                Council Member Hull suggested doing a drive-by event to booths for Halloween
instead of a walking event. She invited Ms. Duckworth to join her and Kellen Schalter, Magna
Coalition, in planning something for Halloween.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Magna Coalition / Magna Community that Cares

               Kellen Schalter stated the coalition will be planning something for Halloween. It
is also starting its community resource assessment and will be looking to see what other
resources in Magna are doing that work too to ensure there is not too much overlap. She asked
the Council to have anyone interested in coalition work to contact her.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                                                4
DATE           TUESDAY                                AUGUST                           25, 2020


Council Business

Council Reports

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSLMSD)

                Council Member Peay stated the GSLMSD is in the middle of its budget. It has
sent a copy of everything submitted to it, which Greg Schulz will send to Council Members
electronically.

               Greg Schulz stated the Council has to approve the Consolidated Annual Financial
Report for the Magna Metro Township at its first meeting in September. Normally, that is done in
June, but because of COVID and the Federal Government extending the deadline to file taxes,
auditors have not been available to do the audit for that. The GSLMSD just barely got that
completed last week, and is having a special meeting on Friday for that.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

             Council Member Peel stated WFWRD finished an analysis of the Mill Point
community and has reached an agreement with the property manager to continue servicing that
community even though it is a private road, since it has met some of the requirements.

              Council Member Peay asked if WFWRD could get its trucks through those small
roads.

               Council Member Peel stated there is no on street parking there, so if everybody
abides the rules and the community does not put up a gate, WFWRD can get its trucks through
there.

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.

                                            SHERRIE SWENSEN
                                            METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK



                                            By ________________________________
                                               Deputy Clerk




                                               5
DATE        TUESDAY                       AUGUST   25, 2020


_______________________________________
CHAIR, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


                          ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                          ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                          ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                                     6
