DATE        TUESDAY                             AUGUST                         11, 2020


             THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
TUESDAY, AUGUST 11, 2020, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON TUESDAY, JULY 14,
2020, AT THE HOUR OF 6:00 P.M. AT THE WEBSTER CENTER AT 8952 WEST MAGNA MAIN
STREET (2700 SOUTH), MAGNA, UT 84044.

COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT:         TRISH HULL
                                 BRINT PEEL
                                 AUDREY PIERCE
                                 STEVE PROKOPIS
                                 DAN PEAY, Mayor

OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE:            PAUL ASHTON, LEGAL COUNSEL, MAGNA METRO
                                 TOWNSHIP
                                 GREG SCHULZ, STAFF, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP

                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
            Mayor Peay, Chair, presided.

                             ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                     Staff Meeting

            The Council discussed the following agenda items:

   Update on Rio Tinto’s Operations, which include the 60-day maintenance shutdown, the
    Magna earthquake, and COVID-19
   Update by the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District on COVID-19 and Magna
    earthquake disaster assistance
   Legislative updates and a determination that will be read into the record regarding
    electronic meetings, including the following determination read by Greg Schulz:
           I, in this case, the Mayor of the Magna Metro Township, make the
           following determination in support of my decision to convene an
           electronic meeting of the Magna Metro Township without a physical
           anchor location. The determination was based on the following
           facts: a) Pursuant, to the public health orders issued by the State of
           Utah and Salt Lake County, the Magna Metro Township remains
           under a state of public health emergency related to the ongoing
           COVID-19        pandemic,     and     significant   person-to-person
           transmission of the virus continues to occur in Magna, amongst
           other reasons.
   Late fees for business license renewals due to COVID-19 and the Magna earthquake
   Update on information from the Utah State Historic Preservation Office and others
    regarding Main Street America Program and getting a historic designation for Magna
    Main Street
   Hollywood movie to be filmed in Magna

                                           1
DATE           TUESDAY                              AUGUST                              11, 2020


    Hiring a backhoe operator for the Pleasant Green Cemetery
    Preserving and relocating historical markers of the Daughters of Utah Pioneers and
     Sons of Utah Pioneers

             Council Member Peel, seconded by Council Member Hull, moved to close the staff
meeting and go into the public meeting. The motion passed unanimously.

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
                                        Public Meeting

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Council Member Hull opened the meeting with the following “Reading/Thought”:

       “A man is what he thinks about all day long.” Ralph Waldo Emerson

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
               Greg Schulz read the following Electronic Board Meeting Determination:

       “You, the Mayor, make the following written determination in support of the
       decision to hold and convene an electronic meeting of the Magna Metro Township
       Council without a physical anchor location. The determination was based upon
       these facts, amongst others: pursuant, to the public health order issued by the
       State of Utah and Salt Lake County, the Magna Metro Township remains under a
       state of public health emergency related to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, and
       significant person-to-person transmission of the virus continues to occur in Magna,
       amongst other things.”

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Approval of Minutes

              Council Member Hull, seconded by Council Member Peel, moved to approve the
minutes of the Magna Metro Township meeting held on July 14, 2020. The motion passed
unanimously.

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

Citizen Public Input

               Deborah Gatrell, candidate, Salt Lake County Council, stated she was here today
to observe the meeting and make note of anything she should be aware of.


                                               2
DATE            TUESDAY                                AUGUST                                11, 2020


                                   ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Reports from Community Stakeholders

Magna in Motion

                Greg Schulz stated Magna in Motion is doing a virtual walk program and has sent
out notices through social media for people to sign up. Some organizations are helping with that,
specifically Salt Lake County Parks and Recreation.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Magna Chamber of Commerce

              Sara VanRoosendaal announced the Cyprus High School recipients of the 2020
Northrop Grumman 2020 Future Business Leaders Scholarship Awards: Benjamin Searle for
Outstanding Achievement in science and education; Jacob Pentico for Excellent Achievement in
science, technology and education; and Isabel Cossa for Merit Achievement in science,
technology, and education.

               Council Member Peel stated he has not sent his dues in yet. He asked what he
should do.

              Ms. VanRoosendaal stated memberships were put on hold through September 1,
2020, so payment will not be required until after that date, and there will be no penalty. The
chamber will start issuing additional invoices at that time, but renewals will be retroactive to the
normal date. Then, luncheons are not being held so money paid for those will carry over into the
next year.

                                  −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Magna Coalition / Communities that Care

                Sara VanRoosendaal stated the coalition is working on community assessments
and will be ready to present to the Council in late October. Also, it is still recruiting for coalition
members and youth coalition members. If the Council knows of anyone interested, she asked
that it contact Kellen Schalter.

                                   ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Reports from Municipal Service Providers

Unified Police Department (UPD)




                                                  3
DATE           TUESDAY                               AUGUST                              11, 2020


               Chief Jason Ackerman stated the last few years, the UPD has been hosting an
art competition for high school and junior high students who do police related art. This year, a
Cyprus High School student, Zoe Jones took second place in the competition. The UPD normally
does a big celebration for the winners, but this year because of COVID, they will just meet at the
precinct.

Search warrants are being done again, and detectives are very busy with the cases that had been
put on hold. Information on that will be in the next quarterly report. He has received some
suggestions from officers this year, one of which was to put a lock on the cemetery gate. The
cemetery is a continual problem after hours, and activity increases as the weather warms up. It
is hard to monitor the cemetery because of how secluded it is. If the Council would entertain
locking that gate, he could have officers lock it up at the appropriate time and unlock it in the
morning.

             Council Member Peel stated he would take that suggestion to the Cemetery
Board on Thursday.

              Greg Schulz stated prior to the transition of the cemetery to the Magna Metro
Township, there was a gate. The cemetery was opened at 7:00 a.m. and closed at 7:00 p.m.

             Chief Ackerman stated one more thing the UPD is trying to do is improve its social
media presence so the community can see what its officers are doing.

               Sara VanRoosendaal stated the Magna Chamber of Commerce shares the UPD’s
direct posts and is getting a lot of good feedback on that. The community needs to see those, so
the chamber will continue to share them.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Unified Fire Authority (UFA)

               Council Member Prokopis stated the UFA is in the middle of wildland season,
and it has been a busy year. The UFA’s Wildland Division hires 40 individuals every summer and
sends them all west to help. Magna has been fortunate this firework season and so has Salt Lake
County for the most part.

The UFA board is working with a consultant to design and build five to seven new stations. The
consultant uses a computer program called Dark Horse, which shows where to build future fire
stations once UFA data is plugged into it. It takes into consideration future growth, what is
planned, what is in the master plan, and where the current call volumes are. The consultant would
like one of the Council Members to be a liaison as it talks about a future site for Station 102 on
Main Street. The consultant would like a city planner or someone from the Planning Commission
to be involved as well.

              Greg Schulz suggested using the Magna Township’s long-range planner, Kate
Davies, as well as someone from the Planning Commission.

                                                4
DATE           TUESDAY                             AUGUST                             11, 2020



               Council Member Hull asked if she should be the contact from the Council since
she sits on the board.

               Council Member Prokopis stated he would like that and would give the consultant
her contact information. The UFA is also working on updating its strategic plan and will hold a
three-hour workshop on that in September. It would like representation from the Magna Township
Council as well. He asked if Greg Schulz would attend.

              Mr. Schulz stated he would put that on his schedule once he gets the date.

               Council Member Prokopis stated lastly, Ivory is trying to negotiate a land swap
with the UFA. It wants to develop property between 8000 and 8400, including the acreage the
training tower sits on. It is willing to trade equal property somewhere else for it.

               Council Member Peel asked if Ivory would build a training tower on the land it
trades to the UFA.

              Council Member Prokopis stated that is up for negotiation.

                               −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Magna Mosquito Abatement District

                Council Member Pierce stated the Magna Mosquito Abatement District is
capturing, netting, and spraying mosquitos, and is not seeing any West Nile carriers.

                                ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
Council Business

Council Financial Report

              Greg Schulz reviewed the 2020 2nd Quarter Midyear Report stating these were
the numbers as of June 30th, provided by the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
(GSLMSD). Revenues were up from building permits and sales tax, but down for road and gas
taxes. There have not been any outstanding expenditures yet due to the earthquake, but those
expenses are being held at the GSLMSD level. The Magna Municipal Township incurred a lot of
expenses for the earthquake and COVID, so the budget will have to be backfilled once it knows
how much the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) will provide.

               Council Member Hull, seconded by Council Member Prokopis, moved to accept
the 2nd Quarter Midyear Financial Report. The motion passed unanimously.

                               −−−−−−−−−−−−−−

                                              5
DATE           TUESDAY                                AUGUST                              11, 2020


Council Reports

Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District

                Council Member Peel stated WFWRD informed the Mill Point community off 3100
South that it was going to cut service because it had private roads. As of April 27, 2020, WFWRD
stopped servicing private roads due to a non-compete clause in state statute. It cannot service
apartments or commercial properties unless they fall under certain guidelines. If a private road
cannot find a hauler willing to service it, WFWRD will service it, but private haulers have to be
given the first choice. In this case, WFWRD was able to work something out with the property
manager for the Mill Point community, so it will continue to service it.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (GSLMSD)

               Council Member Peay stated everyone has been making their proposals for the
amount of money they will need for next year. The GSLMSD is halfway through the process of
figuring out how to make the numbers work to pay for the County’s public works, parks and
recreation, animal, justice court, and District Attorney’s services, as well as legal defenders, and
the GSLMSD’s own service providers.

                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Magna Mosquito Abatement District

                Council Member Pierce stated the Magna Mosquito Abatement District is
capturing, netting, and spraying mosquitos, and is not seeing any West Nile carriers.


                                 −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Resolution 20-08-01

                Paul Ashton reviewed the following resolution following resolution approving the
sale of certain property to Dominion Energy to allow it to perform necessary improvements to its
natural gas regulation facility, located at approximately 2850 South 8000 West. He stated the
property being sold was intended to be part of the detention pond for the Ivory Homes subdivision.
However, the Magna Metro Township can sell some of it and still maintain a detention pond:

RESOLUTION NO. 20-08-01                                                    DATE: August 11, 2020

       A RESOLUTION OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
       APPROVING THE SALE OF CERTAIN PROPERTY TO DOMINION ENERGY

               WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township (“Magna” or the “Municipality”) recognizes

                                                 6
DATE            TUESDAY                                 AUGUST                            11, 2020


the need for our public utilities to periodically improve their infrastructure; and

               WHEREAS, Dominion Energy (the “Gas Company”) is a public utility that provides
natural gas service to Magna; and

               WHEREAS, due to the continued growth of Magna, the gas company needs to
improve its natural gas regulation facility (the “Facility”) located at approximately 2850 South and
8000 West; and

                WHEREAS, Ivory Homes (“Ivory”) is developing a residential neighborhood near
the facility know as the “CW Farms Development” (“CW Farms”); and

               WHEREAS, pursuant to the development of CW Farms, Ivory Homes deeded
certain property to Magna for the development of a flood detention basin/neighborhood park
space ( the “Property”); and

               WHEREAS, part of the property abuts the natural gas regulation facility; and

               WHEREAS, the gas company needs to purchase from Magna a small portion of
the property to allow it to perform the necessary improvements to its facility; and

             WHEREAS, the sale of the portion of the property does not adversely impact the
development and operation of the flood detention basin/neighborhood park space; therefore be it

               RESOLVED, the Magna Metro Township Council approves, and authorizes the
Mayor to sign, the attached land sale agreement with Dominion Energy including all exhibits,
hereinafter known as Attachment A to this resolution.

                APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Magna Metro Township, Salt Lake County,
Utah this 11th day of August, 2020.

                                                       FOR THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP:

                                                       /s/ DAN W. PEAY
                                                       Mayor
ATTEST:

/s/ SHERRIE SWENSEN
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk-Recorder

               Council Member Peel suggested holding some of the funds it will get from the
sale of the property to pay for maintenance of the detention pond down the road.

             Mr. Ashton stated the Council cannot bind future councils, but it can set that
money aside and express its desire that it be used to meet the needs of that area.


                                                   7
DATE           TUESDAY                               AUGUST                              11, 2020



              Council Member Peel, seconded by Council Member Hull, moved to approve
Resolution 20-08-01. The motion passed unanimously.

                                −−−−−−−−−−−−−−
Request for Future Agenda Items

               Council Member Prokopis stated he has received complaints from the public
about the following issues and thought the Council should be aware of them:

   •   Condition of the Magna Regional Park, specifically, the lawn
   •   Condition of the Magna Recreation Center grounds
   •   Lack of notification of the road closure on 9200 West near the cemetery
   •   Request for a streetlight on 3100 South at the Mill Point entrance
   •   Condition of a private dead-end road at 7900 West off 3100 South
   •   Lack of a GSLMSD building official/building inspector after hours

               Paul Ashton suggested putting these items on an agenda for discussion.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
             Jay Springer reviewed the following request for a hearing to be set to consider an
ordinance amendment:

Ordinance 20-07-05 – Ordinance revising subdivision restrictions for certain areas in the
Overpressure Zone.

This ordinance lifts a restriction that was put in place back 20-30 years ago when the original
ordinance was adopted. The restriction was that no properties could be subdivided. The
ordinance only changes the actual act of subdividing; it does not change any of the other building
requirements or conditions that are imposed on development. Basically, it is to allow development
in smaller scale than is currently allowed.

             Council Member Hull, seconded by Council Member Peel, moved to set a public
hearing on August 25, 2020, at 7:00 PM to take public comment on the ordinance. The motion
passed unanimously.

                                 ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦
              THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.

                                             SHERRIE SWENSEN
                                             METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK

                                                8
DATE        TUESDAY                       AUGUST                     11, 2020




                                   By ________________________________
                                      Deputy Clerk




_______________________________________
CHAIR, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL


                          ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                          ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦

                          ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦ ♦♦♦




                                     9
