DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 13, 2024

THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 13, 2024, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON TUESDAY, JANUARY
23, 2024, AT THE HOUR OF 6:00 P.M. AT THE WEBSTER CENTER AT 8952 WEST MAGNA
MAIN STREET (2700 SOUTH), MAGNA, UT 84044.

COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT: STEVE PROKOPIS
AUDREY PIERCE
MICK SUDBURY
TRISH HULL
ERIC BARNEY, Mayor
OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: PAUL ASHTON, LEGAL COUNSEL
DAVID BRICKEY, ADMINISTRATOR
OOF 404 466 466 0046
Mayor Peay, Chair, presided.
OOF 066 666 666 $04
Business Meeting
Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America was recited.
OOF 066 666 066 406
Public Comments

Stan Pappas thanked the Council, Mayor, and law enforcement for its efforts in
helping anti-social individuals. He has poor cell phone reception in his neighborhood and
advocated for additional cell towers. He encouraged the Council to attract more restaurants to the
area. He also questioned the necessity of the Council’s plan to install pickleball courts,
considering Salt Lake County is building eight courts in the park.

Olga Hernandez stated she would like the Council to engage in conversations to
demonstrate solidarity with Palestinians. Recent census data indicates that 0.7 percent of
Magna’s population is Asian. As a community, Magna knows what it is like to be overlooked and
struggle. This is a good opportunity for this body to engage with the community members who are
suffering directly or indirectly. A resolution is one way to show support, but there are many other
ways also.

Johnny Angular stated concerns about water issues discussed in the previous
meeting, particularly regarding his property’s connection to another. Nothing has been done at
this point and he wants an update. The entrance to the property is shared with the neighbor. The

1

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 13, 2024
neighbor wants the gate closed to allow its dog to go outside. It is inconvenient for him if the dog
escapes when he comes home and he has to chase it. The neighbor called Magna City stating
there is a second entrance; however, there is not one. He wants to know what is going on with
that and if the Council can talk to the neighbor. There is sentiment among community members
that it is a waste of time to speak at Council meetings because they do not think it will help.
OO O60 066 $066 006

Unified Police Department (UPD)

Chief Del Craig, Unified Police Department, presented last month’s report,
highlighting crime statistics indicating a decrease compared to the previous year.

Council Member Hull asked about the young missionary’s condition.

Chief Craig stated that he had spoken with her father, indicating that she remains
in critical condition but is showing signs of improvement. However, her recovery is anticipated to
be long. The accident team is actively investigating the incident.

Mayor Barney asked about a 100 percent increase in property damage compared
to the previous year.

Chief Craig stated a significant increase compared to the previous year,
particularly in property damage is potentially linked to ongoing graffiti issues. He also addressed
rising public order concerns, including noise disturbances and maintaining peace.

Council Member Pierce asked what types of violations are included in citations.

Chief Craig stated primarily traffic incidents.

Detective Russ Buhler stated the Youth Academy is starting the first week of
March. Kids between the ages of 15 to 18 are invited to participate.

OOF 066 060 066 406
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)
Pam Roberts, General Manager, recognized Mayor Barney for his service on the
WFWRD Board and presented him with a resolution and gift of appreciation.
OO 440 066 006 004
Consent Agenda
Minutes
2

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 13, 2024
Council Member Hull, seconded by Council Member Prokopis, moved to approve
the minutes of the Magna Metro Township Council meetings held on November 14, 2023 and
November 28, 2023. The motion passed unanimously.
OOO 066 666 066 006
Action / Discussion Items
Salt Lake County Sheriff Presentation

Chief Jason Ackerman, Salt Lake County Sheriff's Office, delivered a PowerPoint
presentation entitled: Re-Established Law Enforcement Bureau Model Contract for SLVLESA. He
reviewed transition goals, general observations about the budget, and the organizational chart.

Mayor Barney asked how the Law Enforcement Bureau's (LEB) shared services
are distributed across entities.

Chief Ackerman stated the shared service formula is different from the Unified
Police Department (UPD). It is broken down based on employee totals and services that are
shared among those employees.

He continued the presentation by reviewing the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
(SLVLESA) model contract budget; the proposed organizational chart for the reestablished Law
Enforcement Bureau; and the philosophy for partnership in contracting with goals and notes.

Council Member Hull stated there is a bill in the legislature to incorporate the
unincorporated islands, has this situation been considered in the budget?

Jason Ackerman stated the current calculations are based on information known
now; however, the incorporation of the islands could change things in the future.

Mayor Barney asked how shared services are being quantified. If a commander
is shared between municipalities, how is the value that the commander is providing for each
jurisdiction being quantified and how is it proven? How are efforts and service measured, how is
it reported and tracked, and how are complaints avoided? In a shared model it is easy to blame
the service provider, how will the Sheriffs Office overcome that?

Chief Ackerman stated some tracking will be done through officer timecards and
areas where officers are working. We would present quarterly statistics and include the number
of hours being spent in your community.

Council Member Hull asked what the decision-making process is for appointing
a captain for Kearns and Magna.

Chief Ackerman stated Kearns and Magna would have a candidate pool it would
select from.

3

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 13, 2024

Council Member Pierce asked if Magna would have a precinct where officers can
maintain a presence and if so, is the cost for a facility included in the projections?

Jason Ackerman stated the Magna precinct is an asset of SLVLESA, and would
go with the Magna precinct and those numbers are already factored into the budget.

Council Member Prokopis stated on the budget document it shows that Salt Lake
County will need to provide $20 million. It seems that Magna will be at the mercy of the Sheriff
getting those funds out of the County Council every year and we lose a seat on the governing
board. On the first slide, it showed that there would be no reduction in service to the community;
however, there were several losses. Sharing a precinct chief with another city is a loss. Magna
has evolved into its own and its own precinct and precinct chief is important. The numbers do not
show the 46 crossing guards that Magna has.

Council Member Hull stated she has a problem with Salt Lake County not funding
the canyons.

Darrin Casper, Deputy of Mayor Finance, Administration and Chief Finance
Operation (CFO) stated Salt Lake County currently allocates just under $16 million for county
functions, including funding for canyon patrol. This funding will likely continue at its current levels,
especially for essential services like canyon patrol and other statutory duties assigned solely to
the sheriffs office. It is important to maintain countywide operations without interruption.

Unified Police Department (UPD) Presentation

Chief Jason Mazuran, Chief of Police, delivered a PowerPoint presentation
reviewing the UPD vision and mission statement, a draft organizational chart, how UPD would
provide local control and expertise, FY 2025 proposed member assessment, Salt Lake Valley
Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA) tax revenue for 2023, and reasons for working
together.

Mayor Barney stated the contract members of UPD pay its contracted rate. If the
city wants to increase its level of service, its contribution would increase, is that correct?

Debra Sanchez, Chief Financial Officer, UPD, stated all members pay the same
rate. There is not a separate rate for contracted members versus SLVLESA members. The
service formula is 70 percent is based on cases, 20 percent is based on population, and 10
percent is based on property tax.

Mayor Barney asked why would a city choose to contract directly with UPD
instead of becoming a member of SLVLESA?

Ms. Sanchez stated the value of being a member of SLVLESA is the economies
of scale.

4

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 13, 2024

Council Member Pierce stated the purpose of SLVLESA was to be able to collect
taxes to provide services. If Magna becomes a city, the Council will have the right to tax on its
own. What benefit is SLVLESA to Magna as opposed to taxing itself and then contracting directly
with UPD?

Mayor Barney stated if Magna chooses to contract directly with UPD, it will have
to fund its own precinct at the cost of approximately $5 million.

Council Member Prokopis stated he does not want to use other taxes to offset
the cost of law enforcement. SLVLESA is a district designed to pay for just law enforcement. If
SLVLESA is up against the tax cap and it is no longer enough to meet the needs of what it was
designed for, the cap needs to be raised.

Chief Mazuran stated when officers go out on a call, a customer service
satisfaction survey is sent out by SPIDR TECH. There is about a 25 percent response rate.
Throughout the country, the response rate is 17 percent. The survey results show a 4.6 out of 5
rating, which is very good. Overall satisfaction shows a 4.4 out of 5 rating.

Proposed Amendment to the Magna Municipal Code

Brian Tucker, Planner, Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District, stated an
ordinance is being worked on as a result of residents in the community who want to do a detached
accessory dwelling unit (DADU) but cannot because they do not have the 12,000 square feet that
is required. Having a DADU on a property makes the property more affordable and creates an
affordable housing opportunity. The Planning Commission recommends that the Council amends
the ordinance to allow DADUs on everything over 7,000 square feet. The MSD staff recommends
an amendment to only the lot size requirements for DADUs. Lots between 6,000 and 7,000 square
feet would have a 350-square-foot limit on DADUs.

Council Member Hull asked if the DADU can be 2-stories.

Mr. Tucker stated the DADU cannot be taller than the main home on the property.

Mayor Barney asked about the parking requirements.

Mr. Tucker stated the state limits are 2 parking spaces for the home and one for
the accessory dwelling.

Mayor Barney asked if Magna ordinances are written well enough that good
quality accessory dwelling units (ADU) would be built.

Mr. Tucker stated property owners will need to meet the building code.

)

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 13, 2024

Council Member Hull asked if DADUs are being used as an Airbnb, how does
that help affordable housing?

Mr. Tucker stated currently Magna does not allow short-term rentals. Any DADU
would have to be a long-term rental, longer than 30 days. If Magna started allowing short-term
rentals it would allow property owners to bring in additional income to pay for their home.

Council Member Prokopis stated reducing lot sizes from 7,000 to 3,500 square
feet could double capacity and worsen parking issues. He recommended a phased approach,
advocating larger lots and gradually reducing their size.

Magna Water Relocation Costs

Paul Ashton stated Magna Water is doing work on water lines within the right-of-
way; however, it does not have a franchise agreement but instead has pipeline agreements. There
have been difficulties in locating the pipeline agreement related to 3100 S. Magna Water is willing
to compromise on the cost, with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) covering
the extra excavation expenses while Magna Water handles labor and material costs. He has
encouraged Magna Water to enter into a long-term franchise agreement.

Capital Improvement Projects

Steven Kuhlmeier, Project Manager, Salt Lake County Engineering and Flood
Control, stated because the budget year is changing from a calendar year to a fiscal year, capital
improvement projects need to be budgeted for January 2025 to June 2025. All of the projects that
were approved for the 2024 budget will roll over to the fiscal year 2025 budget. He reviewed
current and future grants, the 9085 storm drain replacement project, sidewalks, and readdressing
and reprioritizing the master plan.

Traffic Calming Measures

Council Member Hull stated Cordero Drive does not have a posted speed limit
sign. There have been some complaints made by residents regarding the speed which cars are
driving.

Steven Kuhlmeier, Project Manager, Salt Lake County Engineering and Flood
Control, stated a traffic calming study was complete and it does not recommend the need for
traffic calming. The speed limit on Cordero is 35 MPH; based on the counts from the study speeds
in the 85" percentile were 32 MPH.

6

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 13, 2024
OOO 066 060 066 000

Manager / City Attorney Updates
HB 35

David Brickey, City Manager, stated H.B. 35 is currently number 92 on the board
and should progress by the end of the week.
Fiscal Year Budget

Mr. Brickey stated the Council will need to hold a workshop to discuss the fiscal
year budget so those numbers can be submitted to the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District (MSD).
Utah League of Cities and Towns

Mr. Brickey stated he received a letter from the Utah League of Cities and Towns
regarding a swap dues request. The request is for Magna to pay an additional $642.37 for
participation in the statewide Prosecutor and Public Attorney’s Association.
Sound System

Mr. Brickey stated he has been working on getting estimates for an upgraded
sound system. The current estimate for two new microphones is $1,947. He will continue to
negotiate these rates and update the Council.
Water Conservation Grant

Mr. Brickey stated he received an invitation to participate in a water conservation
grant. He will meet with the MSD to see if any areas in Magna could benefit from this program.

OOO 066 066 0060 006

Council Reports
Code Blue

Council Member Pierce stated a bill is being discussed at the Legislature
regarding Code Blue Alerts. The Health Department is responsible for administering the program.
It is struggling to meet the demands and it is costing them money. The Legislature is discussing
revisions that will push the costs back to the jurisdictions. If the Legislature wants jurisdictions to
be able to administer these types of programs, there needs to be funding.
Salt Lake County Animal Services

7

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 13, 2024
Council Member Pierce stated Animal Services is rolling out a new system for

licensing pets and licensing renewals. The system will send out licensing reminders, track

vaccination records, and allow pet owners to create a profile with pictures of their pets. The

pictures will allow employees to identify lost animals. She has asked Jake Carpenter, who

manages Magna’s website, to update the website with this information.

Unified Fire Authority (UFA)

Council Member Hull stated she asked to be put on the next agenda to discuss
the coalition and its funding.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

Mayor Barney stated interviews were conducted for the Economic Development
Director at the MSD. There were two candidates; however, only one showed up. That person had
an exceptional interview. The Board approved three contracts for companies to provide support
to the engineers. Keith Zuspan, Town of Brighton, was voted as chair of the MSD Board. The
MSD is discussing the detail of what needs to happen for the townships to convert to cities or
towns. The biggest issue is changing from a calendar year budget to a fiscal year. Marla Howard,
Executive Director, MSD, received her yearly review and received a good ranking. The MSD is
working on improving morale and is doing a fantastic job.

Unified Police Department (UPD)

Council Member Prokopis stated the UPD Board is redrafting the interlocal
agreement to present to the municipalities. The Sheriffs Office and UPD will be presenting their
presentations to the townships.

Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

Council Member Sudbury stated he will attend his first WFWRD meeting next
week.

OOO O06 066 0646 006
Closed Session
8

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 13, 2024
Council Member Prokopis, seconded by Council Member Hull, moved to close the
public meeting to discuss real estate and personnel matters. The motion passed unanimously.
OOO $06 0066 066 464
THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.
LANNIE CHAPMAN
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK
py Mth (op Wo
Deputy Clerk
CHAIR, MAGNA METRO TOWNS OUNCIL
OO 00% 066 066 066
OF 0066 466 066 064
0% 066 066 066 0646
9
