                                MAGNA CITY
                                COUNCIL MEETING
T qMA ENA"'                ll   NOVEMBER 26, 2024, 6:00 PM
                                WEBSTER COMMUNITY CENTER
                                8952 WEST MAGNA MAIN STREET
                                MAGNA, UTAH 84044


                        MAGNA CITY COUNCIL MEETING MINUTES

Council Members Present:
Eric Barney, Mayor
Trish Hull
Steve Prokopis
Audrey Pierce (via Zoom)
Mick Sudbury

Staff Present:
David Brickey, City Manager
Paul Ashton, Legal Counsel
Daniel Torres, Economic Development Director
Nicole Smedley, Recorder (via zoom)
Brian Tucker, Planning Manager

Others Present:

6:00 PM - PUBLIC MEETING
   1. Call to Order
Mayor Barney, presiding, called the meeting to order at 6:00 PM

   2. Determine Quorum
A quorum was present, allowing the meeting to proceed.

   3. Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance was recited.

   4. PUBLIC COMMENTS
Chris Aleene - Founder of the Utah lslanders here to begin conversation on old Cyprus High
School with students moving into the new school, proposed an ongoing football league at


                                MAGNA COUNCIL MEMBERS
                      MAYOR ERIC BARNEY, MAYOR PRO TEM AUDREY PIERCE,
                  COUNCIL MEMBER TRISH HULL, COUNCIL MEMBER STEVE PROKOPIS,
                               COUNCIL MEMBER MICK SUDBURY
Cyprus High School once it is vacated as the new high school will soon be used. He stated
that this would allow for students to continue to train and play football beyond high school
bringing tax revenue for football camps. He also mentioned entrepreneurial courses being
offered for the youth in the area to help them advance in life as well outside of football. He
believes this would be a program Magna could be proud of and give the community and state
something that is greatly needed at this time.

Ti Kiny Komy - stated that his family has had businesses in the l\,lagna City area thriving and
working with members of the community with disabilities and the elderly over the last decade.
He has run a camp here in Salt Lake City for the last 25 years with thousands of kids coming
because of lhe lessons they learn and enjoy in football. With the Utah Football lslanders
program they are hoping to create a platform for allwalks of like to come and learn and grow,
creating a map with academics as a priority. He gave his support for the Utah Football
lslanders proposal belng held at Cyprus High School. He stated in order to be sustainable they
need a lraining facility year round. He thanked the city of l\ilagna for what they've done for his
family, allowing them to help thousands of people in the city and they want to continue that
partnership.

Alicia Cartier - LDS Church Stake Communication Director. She invited the public to their
Nativity Festival being held December 13-15. December 14rh will be from 3-8pm, and Sunday
will be from 5:30pm with a musical devotional at 6:00pm with live entertainment throughout,
refreshments, a children's room for kids to color and play with age appropriate nativities. They
would like this to be a community event and it will be held at the 3100 s 8400 w, the Magna
Stake Center.

Terry George didn't sign up on the list, but inquired about the plan for the city in the next 20
years, as well as in the next 2 years. lt's great they are looking to bring groMh to the city, but
there is an infrastructure problem right now with getting people in and out of town, which is a
major concern. When they close 9200 off they can't get in and out of town, all of the traffic
keeps getting pushed further and further to the east.


   5. STAKEHOLDER REPORTS
       A. Unified Police Department
Lt. Shane Manwaring shared the recent statistics, highlighting that assaults are up with
previous discussions on juvenile fights and fight clubs; that has tapered off now with officers
coming in to hit that hard and stop the issue. Burglaries are down by half, damaged property
and larceny is down. They have identified that public order and public peace are high numbers,
but that has a lot to do with how dispatch is clearing their calls, so they are working on
correcting that for proper statistics in coordination with VECC. Under the direction of Chief
Craig they are going moving to more of a public-oriented policing program, dividing officers in
correspondence with the council districts, based on issues identified in each of those areas.
They will be reaching out to individual council members to discuss what they have discovered
as the problems in their area.



               Magna City .8952 West Magna Main 5t. . Magna, UT 84044. 385-971-D75
Chief Del Craig gave an update regarding towing in the city, noting there have been many
complaints to the City Manager regarding town in Little Valley, Oquirrh Hills, and Valley View
Apartments, which are the primary areas of focus at this time. UPD has towed a few cars, but
the majority of the tows have actually been on private property. All those complexes have
parking issues and he hopes those orchestrating the towing are doing it for the right reasons
and not in a predatory manner.

Council lvlember Hull noted that she visits those areas frequently and has seen the signs
warning those who park against the rules about towing, they are obvious and easy to
understand.

Chief Craag acknowledged that they do share enforcement with private property in parts of
Little Valley, and they will continue lo take care of the public roads, while the other entities will
be responsible for the private roads.

Council lvember Hull asked about Cordero Drive, noting that she believes there is only
currently one speed limit sign. As that is in her district she has had people call and complain
that it's too fast. With the school opening and the seminary building across Cordero, there are
concerns about the safety in the area.

Chief Craig said they share her concerns and traffic officers have asked for an engineering
study on that road in that area, not just for speed issues, but for the volume of traffic.
Discussion ensued regarding speed limits on Cordero. He also noted the commonly known
issues with UDOT regarding crossing that road both now and when school opens.

Council Member Hull said she spoke with them a few weeks ago and UDOT is still committed
to having things ready before school starts, so she's not too concerned about that piece. She
also mentioned she hasn't seen any movement on 4100 S either.

       B. Financial Report
Dave Sanderson noted that his report is through October 31, 2024. They are still seeing strong
revenues on building permits, $409,000 for the first four months, which is really good. lnterest
rates are still keeping up there so they are earning money off that as well. On the expenditure
side, in the General Fund, there is not much happening other than the basic monthly
occurrences that continue throughout the years without much change. For Communities that
Care, they have received the State Liquor Allotment with almost $25,000 in that fund. On the
expense side of things everything is moving along as normal. Regarding the cemetery, they
have had some revenue for the sale of lots at $4600 with grave openings at $950, along with
the common ordinary expenses related to those services. ln January they will be starting the
Fiscal Year 2026 budget, the MSD wants the city to begin in January and complete it by
February to turn in by the end of February. Later in January he will provide a tentative budget
for the council to review, basically mimicking this year's budget, and changes can be made at
that time. He also offered to do a workshop if desired by the council in between the tentalive
and final budget as they've done in the past, but he feels the council is familiar with the



               Magna City .8952 West Magna Main St. .Magna, UT 84044. 385'977 2275
process and probably doesn't need that at this time.

Mayor Barney indicated that he had a timeline of the process to share with the council during
his council report.

Mr. Sanderson stated the MSD had already sent him a tentative budget to work with and he
plans to begin that work with the council during the January council meetings.

Mayor Barney asked for more information regarding the "other revenue" section of the
Pleasant Green Cemetery budget.

Mr. Sanderson responded that he would look into those details and get back to the Mayor.

       C. Pleasant Green Cemetery

David Brickey reported on Sharon's behalf, noting that since the last time she reported to the
council she has sold two non-resident plots. She also agreed to meet with the families to
review their wills/trusts so they are comfortable with the locations so when the time comes to
bury those individuals identified in the trust that can be done smoothly.

       D. Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA) Potential Tax lncrease

Tony Hill, CFO, Rachel Anderson, District Administrator and Legal Counsel, Wade Russell with
Operations

Rachel Anderson noted she was here a few weeks ago to give the presentation for the Salt
Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area tax increase, and this is similar. The big difference
is that, through a weird nuance of the law, the fire service does not require a vote of the
participating cities, just a reporting requirement, which is the reason for her presentation today.
Ms. Anderson continued by reviewing the presentation included in the meeting packet
materials published online prior to the meeting which included a brief history of the United Fire
Service Area, reasons for the proposed increase and the details of the tax increase.

Chief Wade Russell and Tony Hill continued reviewing the prepared presentation, detailing the
rising costs associated with fire services including equipment costs, fuel and medical supplied.

Mayor Barney asked if these costs have increased due to an increase in the amount of
supplies needed or the actual cost of the materials.

Chief Russell responded that, while they have had to increase the amount of supplies being
purchased due to growth, the rising costs are mostly due to the inflation of single item costs.
He shared that the lifespan for turnout sets (or any personal protective equipment) is regulated
by the NFPA, the standard for firefighting ensembles, and it is a 10 year lifecycle. However,
that 10 years is assuming that everything stays perfect without thermal or chemical injuries,
and they do try to refurbish equipment as much as possible. He noted their goal is to recruit
and retain the best employees, which explains the rise in costs of personal wages and benefits



               Magna City .8952 West Magna Main St. . Magna, Uf 84o44. )85-977-2275
over the last six years. He also noted that over the pasl six years there have been some huge
 increases in costs associated with the fleet, and he showed the associated costs in the
 prepared presentation, noting that for perspective they are currently maintaining about $90
 million worth of fleet and capital assets. Their capital plan is very robust and detailed, and he
shared what is involved in that. He discussed seismic upgrades to alltheir stations and noted
that in 20'16 they bonded for six brand new stations which included rebuilding three current
stations that had outlived their Iifecycle, and three were to increase service in certain areas
within the organization. ln 202'1 they secured a second bond to build three additional stations,
and one additional station an Eagle Mountain; the bond was required to make those stations
seismically safe and to accommodate for future groMh, especially out in Eagle lvlountain. He
then detailed the costs of a station built with the 2016 bond with the costs of the current Eagle
Mountain station, noting that there was a 91yo increase on construction costs alone. The
current proposed tax increase is meant to address the continued groMh and subsequent call
volumes being seen, and he shared the statistics. He talked about their process when
addressing the potential need for additional stations, including call volume and response time.
The presentation included the numbers for each of their communities served, noting Kearns
had the highest population being served by one station, meaning that in any given hear the
station in Kearns is unable to respond to 20% of their calls for service, requiring other agencies
to come in for assistance. To help with this they are adding additional equipment such as an
apparatus at Station 107. They are aiming for a seven minutes response time from dispatch to
arrival on the scene, and they do really well organization wide with hitting that time mark.
However, he noted that in Eagle Mountain they are seeing average times of 10 minutes due to
the large size of the city at 50 square miles. He discussed the changes being made there as
they quickly change from a rural area to more urban and suburban living. He discussed how
adding their new station and truck there will not completely fix the problem, but it will drastically
help with those response times.

Tony Hill took continued the presentation, discussing the costs for Phase 2 of their increase
which includes additional staffing in Kearns and Eagle Mountain as a cost of 96.3 million. He
reviewed the previous increases and the details behind their costs back to 2008 as shown in
the presentation. He discussed the fund balance, notang that they did not have a minimum fund
balance policy at the beginning. That was created by the board at a later time with the policy
level being '15% of the total revenue, and he shared a slide detailing where things would need
to be now to meet that fund balance policy requirement. He discussed property tax rates for
the service area back to 2008, shown in the presentation, and the revenues generated from
levies. He also reminded everyone that property taxes are the only real revenue source for
their services with a less than 10% revenue from impact fees. He shared details ofthe public
hearing on December 10, 2024 at 6:00pm at lhe UFA headquarters.

   6. PUBLIC HEARING
       A. Public Hearing for a Petition to Vacate Dora Street
Paul Ashton stated that this was first presented to the council in June of 2024. He reviewed the
requirements for a petition for vacation to be granted, including requirements for sewer service
to future development. He noted that the water district serving this area refused issuing a
formal letter assuring the service until the city made the decision whether to vacate the street,



               Magna City .8952 West Magna Main St. .Magna, UT 84o44. )85-917-2275
which held things up for a while. After that delay, Mr. Ashton has recommended moving
forward with the public hearing, which was noticed for tonight, to receive input from those
affected by the vacations decision. The decision on vacation is not scheduled currently.

Council Member Sudbury moved to open the public hearing for the petition to vacate Dora
Street. Council Member Hull seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

Miguel Munabar - He has been here a few times and noted that they have been trying to get
the letter from Magna Water but they will not provide the letter because he doesn't own the
property. ln conversation with Trevor, an engineer with Magna Water, Miguel sent his proposal
to which they received the response that "it would work," but even though they have the plans
ready, Magna Water would not sign the letter, despite Miguel paying $20,000 to have the plan
created. The three items mentioned by the council were that he needed the letter from Magna
Water, which he is unable to get until he gets the option to buy the land and invest in the civil
engineering plan. The second item was that the city receives appropriate compensation, and
his appraisal would cost $3000 and take three weeks according to his contacts, which is yet
another investment on top of everything else that he has done to keep the piece of property
clean and free of debris and garbage from the neighbors. Detective Holt has confirmed that
area is a focus of theirs in regards to criminal activity, and neighbors in the area not many of
the high school kids in the area use the area. He referenced the tax costs on his lot to estimate
the cost of the street area, and sent that proposal to the city for $100,000. He can get an
official appraisal, but he needs some guarantee. ln regards to the dirt form, he has tried to
contact the neighbors and invite them here to hear about the proposal and has given them an
idea of what he is trying to build there. His proposal is to at least get an optional sale, or a sale
"subject to" the city's requirements, including the sewer plan approval from Magna Water he
can at least move forward towards closing this sale.

Roy Christensen - was a little concerned about what vacating means, and asked if that was
iust doing away with the street - to which the mayor confirmed that is correct. He asked to
confirm that the street runs all the way down the property along the property, about 280 feet in
length. He believes there is a public safety issue here with fire. lf there were to be a fire, there
is no way to get a firetruck down into that area, and they have had a few fires. lf they had a
major fire, like on Robin Street, and it's so narrow there, how could you get fire equipment in
there and be able to get back out. He lives right on the other side of the property there,
adjacent to the street, and weeds have been a real problem throughout the time that property
has been there. lt seems like he's nervous every year about having a major fire, but now it
looks like it's even worse because they can't even get in there because it has all this dirt put in
there. I thought it was good dirt, but it has garbage in it, and now it's a real mess. Then what
 happens if this street just disappears, then he knows the interested owner doesn't want people
on his property, so all he'd have to do is put a fence all the way across Robin Street with it all
sealed in and nobody could get in there - not the fire department, no one. We need that street
access for people that come from the apartments to get to the school. They wouldn't have to
 use that, but he thinks they are forming a big bottleneck there if they were to have a major fire
along that street there.




                Magna City .8952 West Magna Main St. .Magna, UT 84o44. 385-977-2275
lvayor Barney asked for a motion to close the public hearing, and Mr. Manubar asked from the
audience if he could say something at this point in the meeting. Mayor Barney indicated that he
had already opened the hearing up and those interested in speaking have already had their
three minutes to speak.

Council Member Sudbury moved to close the public hearing. Council Member Hull
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor,

   7. COUNCIL BUSINESS
       A. Consider Resolution 2024-11-04 Approving a 2025 Tax Rate in Excess of the
          Certified Tax Rate by the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area
          (SLVLESA)

Council Member Prokopis believes this should have been brought up a few weeks ago, noting
he believes the county council already voted today with '100% of the entities voting in favor of
this tax increase. They also voted last year to do this same thing, increasing to the cap of the
district. The county then did a reevaluation of property values, which revealed such a large
increases in values that they were below the cap. SLVLESA believes that in the long term they
will need to go to the legislature to raise that cap, allowing for some solvency in this special
service district, and to do that they believe they need to be at the cap for the legislature to
entertain those conversations. He has been in allthe meetings, he feels they have tightened
where possible. There will be new asks, like with the UFA and costs drastically rising, including
the separation from the Sheriff.

PaulAshton added lhat the everyone recognizes the Metro Townships were transformed into
cities, and that if SLVLESA couldn't find movement of the cap the cities themselves would
have to impose their own property tax. Ultimately, it's the question of who pays and that falls
on the residents.

David Brickey interjected that Copperton has not voted, that is scheduled for December '18;
Emigration Canyon has already voted yes; Kearns has voted yes; White City has voted yes;
the unincorporated vote has not yet taken place, and SLVLESA is scheduled to vote on
December 19. Magna does have one last meeting this year and he asked if the council
decides not to take action tonight, they put at back on the agenda for December 10.

Council Member Prokopis stated the county council voted on this today, with the public hearing
still being scheduled on December 19. lf the county council didn't have 100% support from all
entities, that triggers a 2/3 vote on the county council. With Magna and Copperton having not
voted, they invoked the 2/3 majority rule of the county council and he believes that passed with
the county council being told that four of the six who had their vote had passed it.

Council Member Hull moved to approve Resolution 2024-ll-04, Approving a2025Tax
Rate in Excess ofthe Certified Tax Rate by SLVLESA. Council Member Sudbury
seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.




               Magna City .8952 West Magna Main St. . Magna, UT 84o44. )85-977-D75
Council lvember Sudbury noted that in the future this needs to be addressed sooner to allow
for direct participation in the larger vote.

       B. Consider cUP2o24-001185 Delay Agreement for Right-of-Way lmprovements: 2100
          s.

Justin Smith reviewed the proposed site from the prepared presentation included in the
meeting packet. There will be an access on the east side that is highlighted in blue, with a west
side access that is not highlighted but will be done through an easement. He shared the
proposed development plan showing the proposed north and south accesses, which are
proposed to be asphalt. This property is zoned M-2, and with the easement and access within
the property lines the two combined are about 126 feet of street frontage. Public Works
provided a letter of recommendation for the delay request, along wath the Magna Planning
Commission recommending approval of the request on October 3. The delay agreement also
requires the mayor's approval, and the agreement would be for 10 years. lf the city were to put
in the right-of-way improvements within 10 years, the developer or applicant would be the ones
responsible for payment. Of that 126 feet, roughly 56 feet of that will be paved as access.
l\4ayor Barney asked if this requires a vote from the council, or just the mayor's signature.
lvlr. Smith indicated the code only indicates the mayols approval, however Mayor Barney
responded he would want the blessing of the council before agreeing to anything.
Council Member Prokopis asked to review the presentation, noting this is in his district. He
referred to the curb, gutter and sidewalk coming from the west and noted that it goes all the
way to the corner. lf it were a sidewalk to nowhere he would agree with the delay agreement,
but there is curb, gutter and sidewalk to that corner from the property to the west. That side
could tie in at this time to existing sidewalk, but he understands delaying the other sections
that have no valid connections at this time.
Mayor Barney asked if this is an all or nothing agreement, or if the areas could be separated in
terms of required timing.
Council Member Prokopis noted it's only about 75 feet of curb, gutter and sidewalk between
the lwo entrances - which isn't a ton of space.
Council Member Hull agreed with the idea of connecting what's already there.
Council Member Prokopis noted that his frustration is with the fact that this is already built out.
He also asked if there are any current delay agreements out there for adjacent properties that
could be called out to attach to this property and finish the waiting space.
The council then had a brief discussion about the storm water retention in the area.
Mr. Smith noted there could be a current sidewalk in the area to the west under construction
based on his maps, but it was hard to tell at this time. The council then tried to look at Google
lvlaps to get a better idea of what's in the area and what's being planned. Mayor Barney
believes this was forced with Whittaker Construction in the past, but was not 100% sure.



               Magna City .8952 West Magna Main St. .Magna, UT 84o44. )45 977-2275
The council finally decided to table this decision to a future council meeting, date
undetermined. Brian Tucker offered to have staff do some research on surrounding plans and
visit the physical site to take pictures.
Council Member Sudbury moved to table a decision on CUP2024-001185, Delay
Agreement for Right-of-Way lmprovements: 2100 S. to a future council meeting, date
undetermined. Council Member Hull seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in
favor.
Brian Tucker suggested that the council request a drone flight of the area to get a better view
of what's going on as a whole.
      C. Consider Ordinance 2024-0-16 Amending Section 16.02.340 Glass Requirements
          in Overpressure Areas (OAM2024-001294 - Applicant: Magna Staff)

Planning Manager Brian Tucker shared his prepared presentation that was included in the
published meeting packet. He stated that there was a property owner in Magna attempting to
build a home in the overpressure zone, in the least impactful of the overpressure zones
labeled as the 0.2 area. The ordinance doesn't allow windowpanes more than 15 sq. ft., and
he wants to do bigger windows and sliding glass doors. He can do that under the current
ordinance, but the requirement is that no single windowpane can exceed the 15 sq. ft. The
Council adopted the ordinance in 2021, as a joint effort between planning staff, county
engineering, legal counsel and Northup Grumman. Chapters were consolidated, and added
safety items specific to Magna that Northrup Grumman believed the language lacked. A memo
to MSD staff was included in the meeting packet. The owner has reached out to his council
representative and city manager, asking to potentially adopt a West Valley version of the
ordinance regarding the glass panes. Magna adopted the county's code on the overpressure
zone, and in 2021 the ordinance was amended. The only thing related to glass that was
amended had to do with a requirement for tempered or laminated glass. West Valley's code
allows for larger openings, but the larger the opening the thicker and more robust the glass is
required to be. Mr. Tucker reached out to West Valley, and was sent the '1983 ordinance that
adopted West Valley's standards. There are no additional scientific studies related to this, just
the ordinance originally adopting the code; the ordinance has not been amended since '1983 in
West Valley. Magna's 1987 version is newer than West Valley's from 1983 that has not been
updated, and Magna actually revisited this code in 2021. There has been no response from
Northrup Grumman, the city was hoping for some scientific studies or other data explaining the
reasons for the types of glass and sizes. He believe West Valley also required the tempered or
laminated glass, and repeated that in their code the larger the space the more robust the glass
has to be.

Council Member Prokopis asked to clarify that Magna added the tempered/laminated glass
requirement more recently, but did not address the size of the window at that time.

Mr. Tucker responded that he was correct. West Valley's code is very long and difficult to
summarize, but once you get to a large enough opening, tempered or laminated glass is
required. He did not remember the exact size that triggered that requirement.




               Magna City . 8952 West Magna Main 5t. . Magna, UT 84044. )85-977-2275
Council Member Hull noted that she was involved during this process with Northrop, and that it
was a long process. The city didn't want to do anything at the time that Northrup did not
support and agree to. She believes they discussed changing the sizes, but Northrup insisted
that the size mattered; the bigger the size the higher risk of damage or injury if something
exploded in the area. She doesn't believe that West Valley ever had discussions with local
experts at the time, and she is confident that they did look at the sizes during those
discussions.

Council Member Prokopis noted that Northrup has adjusted their zones since the codes were
initially written, and believes that Magna has adjusted accordingly.

Mr. Tucker agreed with Council Member Prokopis' statement and added that he didn't believe
West Valley had done that over the years.

Council Member Hull stated that Northrup has also had additional buildings added, closer to
the city, and neither party has approached each other with those changes. She disclosed that
her husband works for Northrup and shared that he is appalled at how close Little Valley and
the High School are to those buildings.

Council Member Prokopis added that West Valley has also built newer higher end homes up
closer to the facilities as well.

Mayor Barney has a hard time considering an ordinance that impacts safety, without having
solid scientific evidence or justification to support the change. lt sounds like this was
adequately vetted by Magna a few years ago, which makes him nervous changing the code to
anything less restrictive, without strong evidence or justification from engineers and those
involved.

Council Member Hull added that none of the research or evidence was taken into
consideration when West Valley created their ordinance either, so copying them doesn't seem
like a good path.

Council Member Prokopis noted that if the owners are willing to upgrade the quality of glass,
the size allowed ought to be larger. However, it sounds like the current code doesn't even
allow for that.

Mr. Tucker responded that no, the current code does not allow for that. For a single pane they
can't exceed the 15 sq. ft., but they can have multiple panes in the same opening to get
around that rule.

Council Member Prokopis asked if the applicant has had the concept of multiple panes to
make the window space larger has been explained to him.

Mr. Tucker said they have explained that to the building staff, and he assumes that has been
passed on to the applicant, but he is not completely sure.




               Magna City .8952 West Magna Main St. .Magna, UT 84o44. )85-977-227 5
Council Member Prokopis shared his belief that if someone is willing to upgrade their glass to
the required thickness, they should be allowed the larger opening. Council Member Sudbury
ag reed with that comment.

Mayor Barney agrees with that in theory as well, but he would like to see the evidence or proof
showing that is an acceptable option.

Council Member Hull noted the city would be on the hook if something happened in that area
and that family in that home was killed because their glass didn't protect them, especially if the
ordinance is changed to reflect an ordinance that hasn't been reviewed since the 1980s.

The council discussed the expectations for all southern facing windows in the area, and the
new Mahogany Ridge development. Mayor Barney confirmed that all properties along 4'100
South have smaller windows along that side. Council Member Hull shared that she lives in one
of those overpressure zones, and the houses in her area only face east and west, none face
south.

Mr. Tucker said he lives in an overpressure zone as well, and his home faces south, but he
does have smallerwindows on that side and where there are largerwindows there are smaller
single panes. He referenced a rezone he did with Northrup a few years ago with the county,
including a product associated with their overpressure and from the three specific spots.
However, with the new work along the mountainside, they are doing a different kind of rocket
there that is not associated with the overpressure, which is why there are times they can be
close and not worry about it, but in other areas there are still concerns. Staffs recommendation
was not to change anything until and unless they are given something else to go off of. One
concern of the planning commission was someone wanting to change the whole frame and
window would have to do all laminated or tempered glass. Noting that even if the opening
wasn't changed and even if more efficient glass was used, that glass would have to be
upgraded to tempered or laminated; they have asked staff to look into that requirement so he
asked the council for guidance on potentially making changes to requirements for those
replacing current windows rather than adding new windows.

There was a discussion on what window work required permits, and the requirements for that
kind of work. The council was asked if they ultimately wanted to leave the code as is, or if they
wanted to direct staff to get more information.

Mr. Tucker clarified the two issues before the council with the first being the decision whether
or not the council wanted to adjust Magna code to reflect West Valley's overpressure zone
requirements. On the other hand, currently you can replace the glass in a window without a
permit and with whatever material you choose. However, if you replace the frame, you are
required to have a permit and the replacement must be up to current code.

Council Member Prokopis shared that he doesn't believe the applicant understands that
multiple smaller panes could be used to create a larger window area, and suggested making
that clear to the applicant and seeing what he says. lf the applicant is not happy with that
option, then the council should wait to hear back from Northrup before taking things to the next



               Magna City .8952 West Magna Main St. .Magna, Uf 84o44. )85-977-2275
step.

Council Member Prokopis said the applicant got tired of waiting around so he went and bought
his windows, replacing them as he desired. He cited poor communication with the MSD' but
did pay the extra money for the upgraded window materials. He also noted that not all of the
applicant's home was in the overpressure zone, and he didn't feel he needed to use the same
materials for the windows not in the overpressure zone.

Council Member Hull shared that there have been explosions out there, and within her first 5
years of moving into her home in 1980 something happened up there. They did have cracked
windows, and the company had to come in to fix all the windows damaged in the area. She
suggested instructing staff to get more information but allowing them to take their time since
the urgency is now gone.

Mr. Tucker noted the planning commission did ask the staff to look at amending the ordinance,
allowing for the replacement of one type of frame with another and using whatever materials
were used for the glass originally, rather than having to upgrade materials.

Mayor Barney noted that part of this discussion has not been discussed in a workshop and
should probably be held until another time.

Mr. Ashton noted that the council could motion to deny the amending of the ordinance to
match West Valley, but instruct staff to look at other issues raised by the planning commission.

The council discussed options and the concept that things have changed since originally
adopting ordinances, noting that West Valley and Magna's ordinances should match.

Council Member Hull moved to deny Ordinance 2024-0-16, Amending Section 16.02.340
Glass Requirements in Overpressure Areas. Council Member Prokopis seconded the
motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

        D. Consider Ordinance 2024-0.17 Amending the Magna Zoning Ordinance, Title 19 of
          the Magna Municipal Code, related to residential off-street parking regulations
          (OAM2024-001231 - Applicant: Magna StafQ

Brian Tucker stated there have been complaints about the parking in Magna. He noted that
due to the housing market and families living together, Magna has had a tough time enforcing
parking. This amendment is intended to create on-premise parking that ensures front yard
continue to promote an attractive streetscape, while allowing parking in other spots on the
property. Working with the Magna precinct of code enforcement they created a code that
allows for parking on a gravel pad between the driveway and nearest lot line. Driveways are
currently required to be at least five feet away from a property line, but this would allow
someone to gravel that area and park on it as an exception.

Council Member Sudbury has no problem with the gravel, but he does want a barrier under
that gravel to abate weeds, which makes it a code enforcement violation.



               Magna City .8952 West Magna Main St. . Magna, UI 84o44. )85-977-2275
Mr. Tucker believes the ordinance requires the area to be kept weed free, and would also
allow gravel parking on the side of your yard when it's located behind a view obscuring fence
or gate. This would allow for up to 60% of a front yard to be used for parking, if the whole lot
including buildings, rooftops, sheds, asphalt, concrete and patios doesn't exceed 60% of the
lot area. There is also a caveat for going over 50%o, which requires a stormwater analysis. He
shared terms that were not previously defined adequately or at all, noting the Planning
Commission has recommended approval of this Ordinance.

Mayor Barney asked if the effects of allowing parking in non-standard areas with gravel, rather
than concrete, have been looked into and why the decision to allow 60%.

Mr. Tucker noted that currently you can have 50% of specific areas paved separately, however
this pulls it together and notes that no more than 60% of your entire lot can be paved or
hardscaped. He also pointed out that they require compacted gravel rather than loose gravel,
and oil or other car liquids do take longer to permeate that type of surface. He also noted this
is the first time the council has seen this item.

The council had a discussion on the current workshop/business format and options for passing
items without waiting additional time. The council agreed to discuss this more at their retreat
early 2025. The intention is to have this heard today with a decision at the next council
meeting.

Council Member Sudbury moved to delay a decision on Ordinance 2024-0-17 to lhe
December 10,2024 Council Meeting. Council Member Hull seconded the motion; vote
was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

       E.      Consider Ordinance 2024-0-18 Amending Titles 18 and 19 to replace Magna
Township with Magna or Magna City, as appropriate; clarifying when infrastructure and public
improvements must be installed by a developer subject to the limitations on exactions in Utah
Code; clarifying that lnternal and Attached Dwelling Units may only be constructed on single
family lots with 6,000 square feet or greater; amending the definition of Commercial Vehicles
and clarifying the circumstances in which Commercial Vehicles may be parked in R-1 and R-2
zones; clarifying 1 acre minimum for new development in the A-1 zone; clarifuing that a lot
must include 20,000 square feet to have "animal rights"; requiring an "all weather surface" in
Storage and Salvage Yards; requiring trees and landscaping to be trimmed to 14.5" above the
street; and adding or clarifying definitions for "Off Premise Signs", "Animal Rights", "Alteration",
"Clustering", "Expansion", "Grading", Natural Open Space", "Net Developable Acreage",
"Retaining Wall", "Site Plan", "Slope", "Stream, Ephemeral", "Stream, Perennial", "Stream
Corridor", "Substantial economic hardship", "Undevelopable", and "Waive/'(OAM2024-001293
- Applicant: Magna Staff)
Brian Tucker reviewed background information from the meeting packet, noting that this would
change all referenees to Magna Township in Titles 18 and 19 to either Magna or Magna City
as appropriate, they would require an all weather surface in storage and salvage yards areas
that are not asphalt or cement, requires trees and landscape to be trimmed to 14.5 feet above
the street as opposed to the current 13.5 feet requirement, and added back amended



               Magna City .8952 West Magna Main St. . Magna, Uf 84o44. 385-977-2275
requirements for infrastructure responsibilities.

The council discussed instances where curb and gutter would be required, and they are still
working on more details for that.

Mr. Tucker continued noting that the change would require internal and attached ADUS to be in
R-1.6 or larger zone with lot size requirements. lt also discusses commercial vehicles in the R-
'l and R-2 zones with clarifications on delinitions and categories of commercial vehicles, pulled
from the Department of Transportation. ln a workshop in 2022 ot 2023lhere were discussions
and changes to the code that allowed a '10,000 square foot lots in an A-1 zone. Over time, it
was discovered that wasn't as clear and concise as it should have been, and in those cases
the tie goes to the applicant, so they wanted to lock down requiring one acre minimum lots in
the A-1 zone. He continued reviewing the changes for animal rights for food production, and
definition of additional terms.

Council Member Sudbury moved to delay a decision on Ordinanc6 2024-0-18 to the
December 10,2024 Council Meeting. Council Member Prokopis seconded the motion;
vote was 5-0, unanimous in favor.

   8. MANAGERiCITY ATTORNEY UPDATES

David Brickey shared that all three properties the council previously authorized him to facilitate
the purchase of have been acquired, and he was able to meet with former lvlayor Dan Peay to
have him sign over the Webster Center to be under Magna City's name. There is now also an
agreement signed to put signage at Magna Copper Park as described and authorized by the
council, as well as at historic Pleasant Green Cemetery.
City Attorney had no updates at this time.
   9. COUNCIL REPORTS
Council Member Trish Hull did some research on city journals and that information will be sent
out by David Brickey for further discussion.

Council Member Mick Sudbury had nothing to report at this time

Council Member Steve Prokopis noted UPD met last week with a resignation on the UPD
Board, the Mayor of Midvale, who was replaced by the representative from Emigration
Canyon. They will have their truth in taxation meeting on December 19.

Mayor Eric Barney discussed the MSD requesting budgets for the new schedule, and the
calendar provided. They have asked the city to provide proposed fiscal year 2026 budget to
the MSD by February 26,2025. The goal is approval of the Capital and MSD Budgets by May
14,2025. Occupancy at the Salt Lake County offices ends the end of January or beginning of
February, moving to the new facilities in Taylorsville. Updated on Capital lmprovement
Projects, specifically Magna Main Street, noting the last installfailed. He shared the results of



               Magna City .8952 West Magna Main 5t. . Magna, UT 84o44. )85 977-2275
that study, that at the base there was too much clay and fines and stilts, with not enough
gravel to provide sufficient structural support. That was made worse by water seeping into
pavement cracks and infiltrating the substrate with more fines. The root cause best guess was
poor construction with insufficient inspection of the original base and sub-base installation of
the road. The groundwater was also 5-7 feet deep or not observed at all at the 10 foot boring
depth, it is unlikely that drainage was the driving factor for the poor quality. There are two
storm drain crossing identified for replacement and those have been included in the project. He
reviewed the options for fixing the road with their pros and cons.

   lO.CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED AS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE552.4.
      205
      A. Discussion of the character, professional competence or physical or mental
          health of an individual.
      B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.
      C. Skategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.
      D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and
      E. Other laMul purposes as listed in Utah Code 552-4-205



   ll.ADJOURN

Council Member Hull moved to adjourn the November 26,2024 Magna City Council
Meeting. Council Member Sudbury seconded the motion; vote was 5-0, unanimous in
favor.

Adiourned at 8:17pm

This is a true and correct copy of the November 26,2024 Cily             ncil Meeting Minutes,
which were approved on July 8,2025.

Attest:


                                                        Eric Barney, Mag       City Mayor

Diana Baun, Magna City Recorder




              Magna City . 8952 West Magna Main St. . Magna, UT 84o44. j85-977-zzl5
