DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024
THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL, STATE OF UTAH, MET ON
TUESDAY, FEBRUARY 27, 2024, PURSUANT TO ADJOURNMENT ON TUESDAY,
FEBRUARY 13, 2024, AT THE HOUR OF 5:30 PM, AT THE WEBSTER CENTER AT 8952 WEST
MAGNA MAIN STREET (2700 SOUTH), MAGNA, UT 84044.
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT: ERIC BARNEY
TRISH HULL
AUDREY PIERCE
STEVE PROKOPIS
MICK SUDBURY
OTHERS IN ATTENDANCE: PAUL ASHTON, LEGAL COUNSEL
DAVID BRICKEY, MANAGER
OOO 60 $66 060 004
Mayor Eric Barney presided.
OOH 066 $66 666 006 :
Pledge of Allegiance
The Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America was recited.
OOO 66 466 666 064
Community Stakeholder Reports
Fourth of July
Kari Duckworth stated the 4"" of July Committee has had two meetings this month,
and will meet again at the Webster Center on March 7", at 7:00 PM, to discuss the parade. It is
in the process of reserving the park and working on getting a new country rock band this year in
addition to one of the bands from previous years. This year, popcorn will be sold at the park, and
canopies will be purchased and then stored afterward. The committee will also be pre-selling t-
shirts. Fireworks and the carnival games are already in place. Then, former Mayor Dan Peay
has been asked to be the Grand Marshall for this year, and he has accepted. Some committee
members are reaching out to groups, such as the 4-H to try to get additional help. She hoped to
be able to provide some kind of kickback for them. The committee is also trying to get more
sponsors for donations, which would pay for things, such as t-shirts, breakfast tickets, etc., and
she would want to recognize the sponsors at the event. She reviewed the budget, showing the
amounts already confirmed and the amounts still being worked on. There is also funding available
that was not spent in previous years, and she is trying to confirm what that amount is.
1

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024

Council Member Hull stated the Council has a half-year budget that can be spent
prior to the 4" of July, but she asked how the budget would work for things that needed to be paid
for later.

Ms. Duckworth stated funding can be allocated in this year’s budget, but she
would need the Council to let her know how funding would work after that.

Council Member Hull stated someone from the Council needed to attend the
meeting on March 7" because the Council will want to have a float in the parade. She was on
the committee, so she could plan on attending.

Mayor Barney asked if the Magna Metro Township supplemented the breakfast,
which would be put on by the Knights of Columbus as a fundraiser.

Ms. Duckworth stated the breakfast is a fundraiser, but the Magna Metro
Township has compensated the Knights of Columbus, by providing it with $5 to $7 per ticket. Due
to inflation, that cost has gone up to about $8.50. The Knights of Columbus asks for donations,
but it does not charge for breakfast, and it did not want to turn anyone away.

Mr. Todd Richards, Magna Town Council, stated in the past, the Town Council
gave the Knights of Columbus $5 per ticket. Then, tickets were given to the Town Council to be
handed out to volunteers and the runners.

Mayor Barney stated it made sense to fund the runners and the volunteers, but
he did not want to get into a habit of supplementing a fundraiser for an outside organization. He
wanted to make sure allocations from the Council were tied to a ticket, and that there were dual
controls and accounting.

Ms. Duckworth stated the Knights of Columbus has invoiced the 4" of July
Committee in the past for this contribution.

Code Enforcement

David Brickey stated Code Enforcement has 66 open cases, and it has closed 39
cases. He recently had a meeting with Code Enforcement on how best to communicate with its
officers, and it was decided, the Magna Metro Township would continue to share a location and
photos with them and request inspections. Code Enforcement has a new officer, Mike Montoya,
who had previously been a code enforcement officer in Magna.

OOH 004 666 006 406
Action/Discussion ltems
Manga United Communities that Care (CTC) Coalition
2

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024

Council Member Hull delivered a PowerPoint presentation on the Manga United
Communities that Care (CTC) coalition, reviewing what it was, how it was here to help, its mission,
getting involved; the Magna Kearns Youth Court, Magna United Youth Coalition, Salt Lake County
Youth Services — Afterschool Program, Salt Lake County Youth Services — Prevention Classes;
common protective factors for multiple youth outcomes; the predictors: risk factors for health and
behavioral problems, and a social development strategy for healthy behaviors; the Student Health
and Risk Prevention (SHARP) survey; and a report for upcoming financial approvals, including
Magna Community Events 2024, the CTC budget, and Federal grant costs.

Renewal of Magna’s Healthy Community Designation

Council Member Hull reviewed the renewal of Magna’s Healthy Utah Community
designation, which had to be renewed every three years.

A motion was made by Council Member Hull seconded by Council Member Pierce,
to renew Magna’s Healthy Utah Community designation. The motion passed by a unanimous
vote.

Resolution No. 2024-02-01 Determining Magna’s Choice for Policing

Paul Ashton reviewed the history of HB 174, the intent of which was to remove

the Sheriff as the Chief Executive Officer of the Unified Police Department (UPD) and the Salt
Lake Valley Law Enforcement Agency (SLVLESA); the Magna Metro Township Council
Resolution 2023-04-02, instructing him to start negotiations with the other metro townships and
the police to look at the different models that could be pursued for law enforcement for the Magna
Metro Township; and HB 35, which would convert the metro townships to cities or towns to allow
them to have taxing authority to fund policing, and which has passed the Utah Legislature and is
waiting for the Governor's signature.
The Council now needed to decide how it wanted to do policing for Magna. It could self provide,
or join an interlocal entity, such as the UPD, with another city or cities. It could also contract with
another entity to do policing, such as the Sheriffs Office. The Sheriff presented her contract
proposals to all the metro townships asking them to contract with her office for services. The UPD
also presented its proposal to the metro townships. SLVLESA would continue to provide funding
to whichever entity provides policing to Magna.

Council Member Prokopis stated he loved the level of service the Magna Metro
Township received from the UPD. The UPD is the largest and best level of law enforcement in
the county and even in the state. He did not think the Magna Metro Township could get that kind
of service through a contract model. The Sheriff services about 14,000 residents who are left in
the unincorporated County; the UPD services well over 200,000 residents, and economies of
scale come with that district model. The Sheriffs contract model proposal also had the Magna
Metro Township rejoining the Kearns Metro Township, which he thought was a step backwards,

3

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024
as both Magna and Kearns have outgrown that shared precinct model. Additionally, the Sheriff
answers to an elected county council, whereas with the UPD, Magna would have a seat on the
board and be part of every decision going forward. In both presentations, there were some budget
concerns.

In the next two weeks, it will be clear which entity the metro townships will go with for their law
enforcement services. He recommended the Magna Metro Township stay with the UPD. There
might be some growing pains to get this off the ground, as the UPD will be a new organization,
but he believed it could provide a budget that met the needs of its members. The shared services
district model would provide longer-term stability versus a short-term savings if the Magna Metro
Township went with the Sheriff.

Council Member Sudbury stated he had not been impressed with the precinct
that the Magna Metro Township had shared with the Kearns Metro Township. He was very
impressed with the services the Magna Metero Township received now from the UPD. His
recommendation would be to stay with the UPD.

Mayor Barney stated he liked having a precinct and a chief here in Magna. He
was grateful for the connectivity and communication between the Magna Metro Township Mayor
and Chief Del Craig. He thought that would be lost if Magna shared a precinct, and that was a
big concern to him.

Council Member Pierce stated whichever entity the Magna Metro Township went
with, the goal would be the same, and that was to provide policing services at the highest level.
She appreciated both presentations and all the law enforcement officers.

Council Member Prokopis stated he also wanted to do what was in the best
interest of public safety, but he thought the larger organization could better provide that and it
would spread the cost of policing over a larger base.

Council Member Hull stated Chief Del Craig has been a key leader for the CTC
coalition, and the Magna Precinct’s officers were all supportive of its Youth Court and Drug Take
Back Day. She did not think the coalition would get that from the Sheriffs Office because the
Sheriff was not out in the community. She felt staying with the UPD was the right decision.

A motion was made by Council Member Pierce, seconded by Council Member
Hull, to approve the following Resolution 2024-02-01, determining Magna’s choice for policing to
be the Unified Police Department. The motion passed by a unanimous vote.

RESOLUTION NO. 2024-02-01 DATE: February 27, 2024
A RESOLUTION OF MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
DETERMINING MAGNA’S CHOICE FOR POLICING
WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a Municipality pursuant to Utah Code
§§ 10-2a-401 et seq; and
4

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024

WHEREAS, Magna is governed by a five-member elected Council under Utah Code Ann.
§ 10-3-205.5, which Council elects from its members a Mayor, and

WHEREAS, on April 11, 2023, Magna adopted Resolution 2023-04-02 Establishing Policy
and Providing Direction Regarding Implementation of H.B. 375 (“County Sheriff Amendments’),
a true and correct copy of which is attached hereto, marked Attachment “A,” and

WHEREAS, pursuant to said Resolution 2023-04-02, the Magna City Attorney, under the
direction of the Mayor, has been working with legal counsel for other metro townships and the
Town of Brighton to deal with the short and long term implications of H.B. 374, which requires a
separation of the Salt Lake County Sheriff from the Unified Police Department (“UPD”) and

WHEREAS, as a result of that separation it has become necessary for UPD to amend and
restate the interlocal agreement under which it was created, which restated and amended
interlocal agreement will govern the provision of law enforcement services to its members, and

WHEREAS, pursuant to said Resolution 2023-04-02, the Magna’s City Attorney has
participated in the drafting of such restated and amended interlocal agreement, which draft will
be presented to the Magna City Council on or before March 12, 2024, and

WHEREAS, both the Sheriffs office and UPD has made presentations to the Magna City
Council at Magna’s duly notice February 13, 2024 public meeting, and

WHEREAS, having now considered the presentations made, and in the long term interest
of meeting Magna’s law enforcement needs, Magna now desires to reaffirm its commitment to
the UPD as stated in Resolution 2023-04-02.

NOW THEREFORE IT IS RESOLVED, by the Magna Metro Township Council,

1. The Magna Metro Township Council hereby instructs the City Attorney and staff,
under the direction of the Mayor, to finalize the drafting of the restated and amended interlocal
agreement for the Unified Police Department, with Magna as a member thereof, and

2. Upon approval by the Unified Police Department's Board of the completed restated
and amended interlocal agreement for the Unified Police Department, to present said agreement
to the Magna Metro Township Council for review and adoption.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED by the Magna Metro Township Council, in Magna, Salt Lake
County, Utah this 27'" day of February 2024.

MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
BY: /s/ ERIC G. BARNEY
Mayor
ATTEST:
Is LANNIE CHAPMAN
5

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024
Salt Lake County Clerk

Metro Township Clerk/Recorder

Ratify the Settlement of a Dispute with Magna Water regarding Relocation Costs on 3100 South

Paul Ashton stated he had been negotiating with the Magna Water District to
share the costs to loop the water lines below the new stormwater project, and they came to an
agreement. Magna Water District has agreed to split the cost with the Magna Metro Township.
The Magna Metro Township’s cost would be approximately $4,000, or $4,500 at most. He asked
that the Council make a motion to ratify that negotiated amount.

Council Member Hull, seconded by Council Member Prokopis, made a motion to
ratify the settlement dispute with the Magna Water District regarding relocation costs on the 3100
South stormwater project. The motion passed by a unanimous vote. Council Member Sudbury
disclosed that he was the chair of the Magna Water District Board of Trustees.

Ordinance No. 2024-0-03

Brian Tucker, Planning Manager, Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District,
reviewed the amendment to the ordinance, stating the current ordinance requires a lot size of
12,000 square feet for a detached accessory structure, which would only allow about 8 percent
of residents to have a detached accessory dwelling unit (ADU). The proposed ordinance, as
recommended by the Magna Planning Commission, changes that to 7,000, square feet, and that
would be subject to the 40 percent total coverage requirement for all buildings combined on a
property and subject to 25 percent of the rear yard coverage requirement. The Planning
Commission also recommended that 300 square feet be the maximum size for an ADU on
properties between 6,000 and 7000 square feet. Some questions came up having to do with
parking and aesthetics. Currently, two spaces are required for a single-family home, and that
would increase to three if the home had an internal ADU, or it could go up to four for a detached
ADU. The Magna Metro Township would be prohibited from requiring more than one space for
an internal ADU, such as a basement. Aesthetics for homes were subject to building codes, so
he did not expect the Magna Metro Township could put aesthetic requirements in ordinance for
an ADU. This was an opportunity to help with affordable housing for both the property owner and
tenant, provided the concerns were mitigated.

Council Member Prokopis asked why the Magna Planning Commission did not
start with larger lot sizes and the addition of parking areas to see how that worked. He also asked
if a community had already done this so the Magna Metro Township could learn from them.

Mr. Tucker stated Salt Lake City allows accessory dwelling units on smaller lot
sizes, as does Daybreak, although Daybreak was created that way.

6

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024

Mr. Todd Richards, Magna Planning Commission, stated the Planning
Commission looked at doing 10,000 square feet, but that would only allow 22 percent of the
properties in Magna to have an ADU. Limiting the size of the ADU to 300 square feet on 6,000
square-foot lot sizes, and the 25 percent backyard coverage requirement for 7,000 square-foot
lot sizes helped.

Mayor Barney stated his only concern initially was parking. He would feel more
comfortable if the Council designated a minimum of two spaces per ADU.

Council Member Prokopis stated he would prefer starting with lot sizes of 8,000
square feet, which was 38 percent of the properties in Magna, and see how that went first. The
Council gets beat up over high-density housing all the time and allowing dwelling units at 6,000
square feet and 7,000 square feet could add quite a bit of high-density housing.

Council Member Pierce stated she did not like the 25 percent backyard cap. Not
all lots have backyards, so that could be quite a bit of the yard.

Council Member Prokopis stated he would want to keep the 25 percent of the
rear yard requirement. Changing the percentage of the rear yard would affect things other than
just ADUs.

Council Member Hull, seconded by Council Member Sudbury, made a motion to
approve the following Ordinance 2024-O0-03 amending Title 19 of the Magna Municipal Code
repealing Section 19.42.030(B)(2); amending the minimum lot size requirement provisions for
detached accessory dwelling units to 8,000+ square feet; and requiring two parking spaces per
detached accessory dwelling unit. The motion passed by a unanimous vote.

ORDINANCE NO. 2024-0-03 DATE: February 27, 2024
AN ORDINANCE OF THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHP COUNCIL AMENDING
MINIMUM LOT SIZE REQUIREMENT PROVISISIONS FOR DETACHED
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

WHEREAS, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District provides services to the five
Metro Townships in the Sait Lake Valley, unincorporated areas, and the Town of Brighton; and

WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township adopted each county ordinance in effect at the
time of its incorporation pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 10-2a-414(3) and has authority
to amend or repeal the county ordinance when it determines it is necessary; and

WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township is a municipality and has authority to regulate
detached accessory dwelling units in general pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 10-3c-103
(2).

WHEREAS, Magna Metro Township has authority to amend zoning ordinances pursuant
to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-503 in accordance with the Municipal Land Use, Development, and

7

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024
Management Act, (“MLUDMA’), Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code, to regulate the construction and
location of detached accessory dwelling units; and

WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its ordinances in order to allow
Magna residents a reasonable opportunity to build detached accessory dwelling units to increase
the affordable housing supply within the community; and for the protection and preservation of
the public health, safety and general welfare.

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
as follows:

1. Title 19 Zoning: The following Section 19.42.030(B)(2) is hereby repealed and
replaced in its entirety with the revised Section 19.42.030(B)(2) attached hereto as Exhibit [or
Attachment] A.:

2. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or specific application
of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full force and
effect.

3. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting and
publication as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this 27" day of February, 2024.

MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
BY: /s/ ERIC G. BARNEY
Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ LANNIE CHAPMAN
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
Fiscal Year 2025 Budget
David Brickey stated on February 13", the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District (MSD) sent the Council a worksheet, regarding the Magna Metro Township changing its
budgeted year to a fiscal year, starting July 1, 2024, through June 30, 2025. The worksheet will
need to be filled out before March 13". Then, the Council will need to approve the budget in June.
Dave Sanderson delivered a PowerPoint presentation on the summary worksheet
for July 1, 2024, through June 30, 2025. The 2024 budget that the Council passed will now only
be for six months.
8

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024

Mayor Barney stated some of the Magna Metro Township’s major expenses were
realized in the last half of the year, and funding approved for those things would roll to the Capital
Improvements Fund if it did not get spent. The MSD Board wanted the Magna Metro Township
to give it a proposed budget for 2024 to 2025, and let it know how much it wanted for those last
six months of 2024 for items previously approved.

Mr. Sanderson stated he would revisit the budget for 2024 and estimate what that
would look like in this budget.

Council Member Prokopis stated the Council had until June to approve the
budget for July 1, 2024, through June 30, 2025.

Mayor Barney stated the MSD wanted all the numbers by March 13, 2024.
Basically, the Council needed to amend the previously approved 2024 budget for a six-month
term, and then create a budget for July 2024, through June 30, 2025.

Mr. Sanderson stated he put in the same amount of money for the July 2024,
through June 30, 2025, budget that the Council had approved in 2024, with one adjustment from
some updated numbers he got from the MSD. He asked the Council to let him know if the
numbers needed to be changed.

Mayor Barney suggested Council Members review this over the next couple of
weeks, and then the Council can make adjustments at the March 12, 2024, Council meeting to
be able to direct the MSD on March 13, 2024.

Council Member Hull, seconded by Council Member Prokopis, made a motion to
defer a decision on the Fiscal Year budget until the March 12, 2024, Council meeting, with a start
time of 5:30 PM. The motion passed by a unanimous vote.

Resolution No. 2024-02-02

David Brickey reviewed a resolution approving a contract with Positive Impact
Consulting, LLC, Rory Andreason for administrative services. Ms. Andreason will be taking on
further responsibility under the agreement, but she was willing to come down on the amount she
initially requested. He had checked with other metro townships and two municipalities to see
what they were paying their city clerks and thought this was a fair amount to get a professional
recorder who would help the Council with its noticing.

Council Member Sudbury, seconded by Council Member Hull, made a motion to
approve the following Resolution #2024-02-02. The motion passed by a unanimous vote.
RESOLUTION NO. 2024-02-02 DATE: February 27, 2024

$s)

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024
A RESOLUTION OF MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL APPROVING A
CONTRACT BETWEEN MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP AND POSITIVE IMPACT
CONSULTING LLC (RORI L ANDREASON) FOR ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES

WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township (“Magna”) is a Metro Township pursuant to Utah
Code § 10-2a-401 et seq, and

WHEREAS, The Magna Metro Township Council (“Council”) is a Metro Township Council
pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-504, with the Mayor acting as Chair of the Council pursuant to
Utah Code § 10-3b-503, and

WHEREAS, the Magna Metro Township Council desires to retain the services of Rori L.
Andreason (Positive Impact Consulting LLC) to provide Administrative Services to the Magna
Metro Township; and

WHEREAS, the attached agreement was negotiated between Positive Impact Consulting
LLC and Magna to fulfill Magna’s needs for administrative services.

THEREFOR BE IT RESOLVED by the Magna Metro Township Council, as follows:

1. The Council approves and adopts the attached contract for Administrative Services
from Positive Impact Consulting LLC (Rori L. Andreason), marked Attachment “A” to this
resolution, for the benefit of Magna, and authorizes the Mayor to sign the same.

2. The Resolution shall take effect immediately.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Magna, Utah this 27" day of February 2024.

MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP

BY: /s/ ERIC G. BARNEY

Mayor
ATTEST:
/s/ LANNIE CHAPMAN
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
OOO $66 066 666 406
Manager Updates
HB 35
David Brickey stated HB 35 has been enrolled and is on its way to the Governor's
Office. If the Governor and sponsor of the bill decide to have a signing ceremony, he would let
the Council know.
10

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024
Code Enforcement

Mr. Brickey asked Council Members to tell any resident who contacts them with
a code enforcement incident, to document the issue by taking a picture and sending it to his email
address or phone, and then he would forward it to Alicia Gonzalez, Code Enforcement Supervisor,
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD). He thought it best not to have Council
Members get involved in trying to solve the problem.

Council Member Pierce asked if Council Members could just inform the
concerned resident they could go to the MSD’s website and report it.

Mr. Brickey stated they could also do that. However, what he has been hearing
from community members is they want to talk to somebody about it, and they want the Magna
Metro Township Council to hear their concern.

Council Member Prokopis stated it would be nice to know if there was some
resolution.

Cell Phones

Mr. Brickey stated he had asked Council Members if they wanted a cell phone,
and suggested they separate their personal phone data from work data.

Paul Ashton stated if Council Members use their personal phone for government
business, it could be subject to a Government Records Access and Management Act (GRAMA)
records request. If Council Members had a phone for government use, they could transfer
government data from their personal phone to the government phone. Then, if they received a
GRAMA request, they could sign an affidavit saying all government data was moved to the
government phone.

Retreat

Mr. Brickey stated he has verified a date for a retreat with Council Members of
Saturday, April 13, 2024. If Council Members had some concepts or ideas that wanted to discuss,
he asked that they work with the Mayor to ensure that gets on the agenda.

Council Member Prokopis stated he would like to have discussed the budget in
the retreat, and asked if the Council could hold off on a response to the MSD until after its retreat.

Mayor Barney stated he is meeting with the MSD tomorrow and will ask what is
driving its March 13" deadline. For the record, the term “retreat “ it is not about going to a resort
on the taxpayers’ dime. It is to have an in-depth discussion over the course of half-a-day about
future budget items and objectives the Council wants to accomplish for Magna.

Email Domain
11

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024

Council Member Prokopis asked if the Council had gone live with the new
dot.gov domain, and if so, at what point the old domain would stop working.

Mr. Brickey stated he spoke with Google Mail and confirmed the Council would
keep that domain paid for and operational for at least 60 days past the effective date of the new
domain. When the Magna Metro Township becomes a city on May 1, 2024, it will move to dot.gov.
He also recognized some groups, such as the Magna Planning Commission, had not been
included in the initial transition to dot.gov.

Council Member Prokopis stated the Unified Fire Authority (UFA) requested the
Council send it an email spelling out each Council Member's name and their email contact once
the transition to dot.gov took place. He thought the UFA could then forward that to other service
providers.

Mr. Brickey stated he will be having a flyer sent out to every resident explaining
HB 35 and the transition from a metro township to a city, as well as the new email designation.
Ethics Disclosures

Council Member Prokopis asked if the Council had to submit ethics disclosures
every year.

Mr. Brickey stated he would look into that.

Open and Public Meetings Act Training

Council Member Prokopis stated the Unified Police Department (UPD) Board of
Directors asked him to take the Open and Public Meetings Act training, which he did online.

Paul Ashton stated if a Council Member has taken the training, he asked that they
provide Mr. Brickey with the certificate of completion. Council staff can also arrange to have
someone provide the training here.

Council Member Hull asked if Council Members had to do this training every year.

Mr. Ashton stated yes, Open and Public Meetings Act training had to be done
every year.

Council Member Prokopis stated he was confused as to which certifications he
was required to have.

Mr. Brickey stated he would look into the designations that each Council Member
needed.

Business Cards
12

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024

Council Member Hull asked if Council Members would be getting new business
cards with the new email domain on them.

Mr. Brickey stated that got delayed for the new email domain and any potential
changes to the logo.

Mr. Ashton stated the Council needed to decide what it wanted to be called, i.e.
Magna City, the city of Magna, or just Magna. That is something the Council can talk about in its
retreat.

OO 666 066 066 4646
Council Reports
Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD)

Council Member Sudbury stated he attended his first board meeting at which the
Open and Public Meetings Act training was held, and the board discussed retirement benefits.
Unified Police Department (UPD) / Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA)

Council Member Prokopis stated the UPD board is in its budget process.
Unified Fire Authority (UFA) / Unified Fire Service Area (UFSA)

Council Member Prokopis stated the UFA annually puts on Fire School 101,
which is an educational event for elected officials of cities. The training teaches things related to
fire service. Some activities include putting on turnout gear, fighting a fire, and cutting a car with
extrication tools. This year it will be held April 12, 2024. The training is limited to 16 spots. Ifa
Council Member wants to attend, he asked that they let him know.

Council Member Pierce stated she would do the training.

Council Member Prokopis stated Council Member Sudbury asked him about
doing the training too. Council Member Pierce would be chosen to attend first, and then if a
second seat became available, he would have Council Member Sudbury attend.

Council Member Hull announced that the UFSA just approved a tax revenue
anticipation bond to pay for things until taxes come in, which it got a good rate on. It had to do
this every year.

13

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024
Magna Mosquito Abatement District

Council Member Pierce stated the Mosquito Abatement District will be in Dallas,
Texas, next week for one of its annual conferences. The conferences are very interesting.
Members learn about the insects and the diseases they carry, and a lot of other things.

Council Member Sudbury asked if the Mosquito Abatement District sprayed the
parks when it started spraying in the spring.

Council Member Pierce stated the Mosquito Abatement District routinely does
inspections of the ponds and where mosquitos are breeding before it sprays. When the Magna
Metro Township had events, such as the 4" of July or Movies in the Park, the Mosquito Abatement
District applied extra treatment to the areas before the events. In past summer months, the
Mosquito Abatement District hired seasonal employees to help with that, but this year, it invested
in a drone, so it would be cutting back on seasonal employees. The Mosquito Abatement District
used to contract for aerial services, but the larger the areas became, the more aerial service costs
went up. It was more cost effective to buy a drone and start providing those services itself. One
employee has been trained and licensed to operate the drone. The Magna Mosquito Abatement
District is forward-thinking in its efforts, and it has actually spoken at conferences and been
involved in studies.

Council Website

Council Member Pierce stated a group of people, including some Council
Members and a media person, met and discussed what they liked on other web sites. Some
people asked that the website be launched at the same time as the new email domain, but they
were told the website could not be done in time. The process to set up the information will take
six months more. She would like Council participants to meet as an internal group to hash out
some things before it meets with the vendor again.

Mayor Barney stated one of the key components of the new website is to design
it around the colors of the logo. Maridene Alexander, Communications Manager, Greater Salt
Lake Municipal Services District (MSD), has requested some sample logos or color schemes the
Council wanted to use when it became a city. The Council will be presenting those at the March
12 workshop meeting. He did not anticipate having to choose anything that day, but Council
Members could provide feedback about what they liked.

Council Member Pierce stated it was important to consider the colors for the logo,
as those colors would be carried over to the website. Right now, the Magna Metro Township’s
colors are blue and yellow.

Salt Lake County Public Works and Municipal Services Department
14

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024

Council Member Hull stated a woman who crosses 8400 West at the High
Intensity Activated CrossWalk (HAWK) signals had complained that the church there was not
plowing the sidewalks. She let David Brickey know, and then Salt Lake County Public Works and
Municipal Services Department went there and plowed the snow.

Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD)

Mayor Barney stated the next MSD board meeting is tomorrow. Two weeks ago,
it got an update from Salt Lake County’s Public Works Engineering on the projects that were
completed last year and the upcoming projects for this year. He had brought up the condition of
the road repairs on 3100 South where the storm drain was and the County reassured him that it
had temporarily patched that to get through the winter; and when the weather warms, it will pave
that road, and it will also require a contractor to do some remediation there. The MSD reminded
him the Magna Metro Township Council had roughly $2.6 million in American Rescue Plan Act
(ARPA) funds that it has not committed yet. That had to be committed by the end of 2024. Then,
the only other thing discussed at the meeting was updating signature cards.

Council Member Sudbury asked if the patch on 3100 South had a twelve-month
or a two-year warranty on it. The Magna Water District does a two-year warranty and does not
release the bond for two years because problems usually occur after the first year, after which, it
becomes the city’s problem.

Mayor Barney stated he did not know the answer, but he would ask the MSD what
its standard was. The Magna Metro Township Council ran into that issue with the Main Street
paving project. The problem never got reported before the warranty or bond expired.

OOO $66 666 06¢ $606
Closed

Council Member Sudbury, seconded by Council Member Hull, moved to close the
meeting to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation and the purchase, exchange, or
release of real property. The motion passed unanimously.

OOO O66 0666 066 064
THERE BEING NO FURTHER BUSINESS to come before the Council at this time,
the meeting was adjourned.
LANNIE CHAPMAN
METRO TOWNSHIP CLERK
15

DATE TUESDAY FEBRUARY 27, 2024
Deputy Clerk
po)
CHAIR, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
c.f
OO 046 066 066 064
OO 066 666 666 064
OOO 066 066 066 066
16
