COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT
; AGENCY OF MAGNA MEETING
HM AGNA=)4 September 23, 2025, 5:30 PM
b WEBSTER COMMUNITY CENTER
8952 WEST MAGNA MAIN STREET
MAGNA, UTAH 84044
COMMUNITY REINVESTMENT AGENCY MEETING MINUTES
September 23, 2025
Board Members Present: Board Members Absent:
Eric Barney
Audrey Pierce
Steve Prokopis
Mick Sudbury
Trish Hull
Staff Present:
David Brickey, City Manager
Diana Baun, Secretary
Dan Torres
Paul Ashton, Legal Counsel
Others Present:
None
1. Call to Order
Board Chair Eric Barney, presiding, called the meeting to order at 5:30 PM.
2. Determine Quorum
A quorum was present, allowing the meeting to proceed.
3. PUBLIC COMMENTS
None
4. DISCUSSION/ACTION ITEMS
A. Approval of the July 8, 2025 CRA Meeting Minutes
No minutes approved — will be presented for approval in October.
CRA OF MAGNA BOARD MEMBERS
ERIC BARNEY, AUDREY PIERCE, TRISH HULL,
STEVE PROKOPIS, MICK SUDBURY

B. Empress Theater: Mantle Park Parking Discussion
Board Chair Eric Barney noted that the Empress Theater Board was unable to come to a
consensus on this at their board meeting, so it was proposed to delay this discussion for a
future meeting. The Empress Theater has a lease for Mantle Park for $1.00, with the terms of
that lease being that the theater maintains the parking lot, including the landscaping. The
Empress does not have the resources to maintain the landscaping, especially with the added
improvements. They are looking at rescinding that lease and letting the CRA and city take that
over.
David Brickey added that the CRA has put in over $100,000 into that park, so they will
probably want to maintain it and not let it fall into disrepair. He is under the impression that it
was being maintained under the Salt Lake County, but Dan Torres is going to confirm that.
Board Member Mick Sudbury suggested donating the park to the Empress for maintenance, as
that was what it was intended for, since the city already put the money in.
Chair Barney noted that it is more meant for public parking.
Board Member Sudbury noted that at one point it was stated that people at the bar were using
that parking lot, who shouldn't be.
Chair Barney responded the Empress has not been enforcing its right to the parking, nor is it
posted on the property.
Board Member Sudbury noted the Empress has not been cleaning up the property as
previously agreed either.
Board Member Hull disagreed, noting that if the city has put $100,000 into a park the city
should be the one maintaining the park as it really is a city park and the public would then ask
questions regarding maintenance of other parks versus this one, not knowing it had changed
hands.
Board Member Sudbury state the weeds need to be removed with shrubs put in to clean it up.

C. Support for Lens of Magna Main
David Brickey explained the Lens of Magna is an event that has been taking place for the last
three years, with the Salt Lake CRA managing it with the current Lens of Magna Main
leadership pushing forward with the idea of trying to advertise and promote Magna’s Main
Street. The contributions made by Salt Lake in the past were prize money in the amount of
$2,875.00. The Sabans, as the current leadership for the program, have offered to contribute
about $4,000. Tonight he is trying to get feedback from the board if they want to continue the
program in the Spring. The Sabans reached out and wanted to see if this program could
continue, now that the Magna CRA is over that downtown area.

CRA of Magna * Webster Community Center ¢ 8952 W Magna Main Street ¢ Magna, UT 84044

Board Member Trish Hull asked for details on the program.
Chair Eric Barney explained that it is a photography contest, inviting photographers to take
pictures of Magna Main Street that are then posted with public voting and awards offered. The
Sabans have an LLC, Knights of the Empress, which purchased the Empress Theater and
currently lease it to the Oquirrh Hills Performing Arts Alliance, which operates the theater. The
Sabans also purchased the property next door to the theater and are intending to rebuild the
property to the west. There has been discussion about the intentions for the space, but the
current belief is retail space with housing above. The Sabans are heavily invested, from a
business standpoint and a real estate standpoint, in Magna Main Street and they want to see if
thrive. This Lens of Magna Main photography contest was started specifically as a way to
promote it.
Mr. Brickey noted that the previous contribution of $2,875, which is for the winner of the
contest, has been through a cash donation in the past. The Saban’s monetary contributions
have always gone towards things like framing and putting the pictures together for display at
some point in a gallery-type setting.
Board Chair Barney noted the donations in the past came directly from the Salt Lake County
RDA with the County Council acting as the RDA Bard making that decisions.
Board Member Hull asked if the money in the current CRA increases year after year, stopping
at some point in the future.
Mr. Brickey explained the contributions are coming in, but they haven’t seen as much as in
previous years; he and Daniel Torres are investigating that further to find out why. This past
year it was $200,000 and they think that decline may be tied to the agreement itself causing
the downward taper. At some point that tax increment does stop, and after that point they
would have to re-approach all the taxing entities and start a new CRA, which generally only
happens if there is a reason to do so like new construction or other major event.
Council Member Hull suggested that if this is something for the betterment of all of Main Street,
having the group come to the council like any other group requesting funds. She thinks it is a
worthy cause, fixing and supporting Main Street, but would like the group to ask for the
council's support, rather than the CRA, since it will be a long-term project.
Board Member Prokopis suggested having them present to the CRA since it will be from those
specific funds.
Board Member Hull noted it did not have to be funded by the CRA rather than the city, that was
just brought here because the Salt Lake County CRA was funding it previously. She also
wonders if they will deplete the CRA funds with all the other current projects being considered.
Mr. Brickey responded that is not anticipated. He will contact Ms. Saban about presenting to
the CRA in October if she is amenable.

CRA of Magna * Webster Community Center * 8952 W Magna Main Street * Magna, UT 84044

Board Member Prokopis asked about any benefits the Sabans have seen over the past few
years with this program, has it yielded any results they can present to the council.
Mr. Brickey will send that request to Ms. Saban.
Chair Barney shared that the Sabans had sent both he and Mr. Brickey the note that “the Lens
of Manga Main connects community to Historic Main Street, has seen an increase in
participation over its three years. It has been rewarding to see photographers, both
professional and casual get excited about what they find on Magna Main, as well as see their
artistic expression of it. | would love the chance to chat more about it and determine if the
process for your potential involvement is there, or if there is any interest.”
Board Member Sudbury asked if this would be like the Midvale event with murals.
Chair Barney noted that this wouldn't include murals. Photographers simply submit their
pictures for the contest, the Sabans fund the preparation of the photos and frames out of their
own pocket. They are asking the CRA to basically support the prize money. They have put the
gallery up at the Webster Center in the past, and they keep those displays local.

D. Program and Budget Request
Dan Torres reviewed his prepared presentation (Attachment A) along with his draft documents
that were published with the meeting agenda. As the Economic Developer he wanted to
present options to the board to address using funds in the downtown district. Adam Long, the
CRA Attorney, was online as well for any questions. He began by responding to Board
Member Hull’s question about the increments, noting the downtown district still has another 4-6
years to run before the district expires. At some point they will come back to the board and,
based on priorities, ask if it is worthwhile to extend the life of that district. His current thoughts
are that it has existed for almost 20 years now under the county leadership and he doesn't
know if the potential value of that district was realized. That could create a compelling reason
to extend that time for tax increment to flow into the district. They are currently trying to figure
out that annual increment. In the past, when first started there was about $800,000 flowing into
the district, which has trended down. They will need to look at it, but the thought is that around
the time of Covid the assessor may have downgraded the assessed value of the commercial
properties in the downtown district and that usually lags a few years, but they are working on
that to bring back to the board with more information. Before the board tonight are some ideas
for consideration. The downtown has been identified as an important component in Magna,
and the proposals being shown tonight is an attempt to present a way to drive traffic and
activity into the downtown since that is directly tied to how people may want to invest and what
thy want to invest in downtown. The CRA and district received several vacant properties from
the county CRA, he is unaware of any larger plan the county may have had, but in Magna’s
hands now they have the ability to decide the fate of those properties and the downtown area.
In a perfect world, as a board they would sit down and budget items with staff working with the
board to gain an understanding of what the priorities are, avoiding having to come back for
each individual expense in the future. He reviewed his documents shared with the council,
noting there is about $2.4 million in the Downtown CRA. He is suggesting potentially

CRA of Magna * Webster Community Center * 8952 W Magna Main Street * Magna, UT 84044

allocating/budgeting $417,000 as detailed in the documents, reviewing each specific line with
the board as presented in his supporting documents.
The council agreed they were excited to see movement towards an official plan to bring life
back to Magna Main.

E. Master Services Agreement with Clearwater Financial
Dan Torres shared that the council already voted to sign this agreement with Clearwater
Financial at the previous meeting, but wanted to bring it so they could see the agreement in
person. Chair Barney agreed to sign it, as it has already been approved.

F. Discussion Regarding Recent Updates
No recent updates.
5. CLOSED SESSIONS IF NEEDED (AS ALLOWED UNDER UTAH CODE ANN. 52-4-205)

A. Discussion of the Character, Professional Competence or Physical or Mental

Health of an Individual.

B. Strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation.

C. Strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property.

D. Discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems; and

E. Other lawful purposes as listing in Utah Code 52-4-205
No Closed Session necessary.
6. ADJOURN
Board Member Hull moved to adjourn the September 23, 2025 Community Reinvestment
Agency of Magna meeting. Board Member Pierce seconded the motion; vote was 5-0,
unanimous in favor.
The September 23, 2025 Magna Community Reinvestment Agency Meeting adjourned at
5:56 PM.

CRA of Magna * Webster Community Center ¢ 8952 W Magna Main Street * Magna, UT 84044

This is a true and correct copy of the September 23, 2025 CRA Meeting Minutes, which
were approved on October 14, 2025.
Attest: f
“
Eric Barney, Board Zhair
ij
Diana Baun, Secretary
CRA of Magna * Webster Community Center ¢ 8952 W Magna Main Street * Magna, UT 84044
