> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-12-01
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 1 
 
The City Council met in Work Session on Tuesday, December 1, 2020, 
in an Electronic Meeting, pursuant to the Chair’s determination 
and Salt Lake City Emergency Proclamation No. 2 of 2020(2)(b). 
 In Attendance: Council Members Chris Wharton, James Rogers, Amy 
Fowler, Andrew Johnston, Daniel Dugan, and Darin Mano. 
 Absent: Councilmember Analia Valdemoros. 
 Staff in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive 
Director; Jennifer Bruno, Council Executive Deputy Director; Erin 
Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto, Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Katherine 
Lewis, City Attorney; Lisa Shaffer, Mayor’s Chief Administrative 
Officer; Allison Rowland, Council Public Policy Analyst, Benjamin 
Luedtke, Council Policy Analyst; Lehua Weaver, Council Associate 
Deputy Director; Amanda Lau, Council Staff Assistant; Samuel Owen, 
Council Policy Analyst; Mike Brown, Police Chief; Nick Norris, 
Planning Director; Jonathan Larsen, Transportation Director; Nick 
Tarbet, Council Office Policy Analyst; Blake Thomas, Community and 
Neighborhoods (CAN) Director; Angela Price, Housing and 
Neighborhood Department (HAND) Policy and Project Manager; Sara 
Javoronok, Senior Planner; Susan Lundmark, Transportation Project 
Manager; Lani Eggertsen-Goff, Housing & Neighborhood Director; 
Robert Nutzman, Council Staff Assistant; Kira Luke, Council Policy 
Analyst/Public Engagement; Vicki Bennett, Sustainability 
Environment Director; Debbie Lyons, Deputy Sustainability 
Environment Director; Brijette Williams, Council Public 
Engagement/Communications Specialist; Cindy Lou Trishman, City 
Recorder; and Scott Crandall, Deputy City Recorder. 
 Guests in Attendance: Rick Rasmussen, Civilian Review Board 
Administrator. 
 
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 2:04 p.m. 2:04:36 PM 
 AGENDA ITEMS 
 #1. 2:05:47 PM Informational: Updates from the Administration 
The Council will receive an update from the Administration on 
major items or projects, including but not limited to: 
Local Emergencies for COVID-19, the March Earthquake, and the 
September Windstorm; Updates on relieving the condition of people

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 2 
 
experiencing homelessness; Police Department work, projects, and 
staffing, etc.; and Other projects or updates. View Attachment Mayor Mendenhall, Rachel Otto, and Mike Brown briefed the 
Council on the following: 
• COVID-19, waiting to learn if Salt Lake City would receive 
a 3rd distribution of CARES funding, vaccination rollout, 
and continued monitoring with the Salt Lake County Health 
Department. 
• Community Commitment Program, winter shelter (working to 
locate 2nd location), 500 West 900 South 
encampment/activity, and two portable restrooms on 900 
South. 
• Standing Police Department items, including a recent 
meeting with leadership of the St. Mark’s Cathedral, 
shelter resistant homeless issues, camera installations, 
updates on the Community Intelligence Unit (CIU) assigned 
to each district (new model was not a permanent or rotating 
assignment) and created instead the Division of Community 
Liaison officer (adjusting the reporting process to be 
aligned with the geographical areas of specific districts). 
• Chief Brown addressed questions from the Council regarding 
the new arrangement of community officers including the 
authority and team effort. 
 #2. 2:27:14 PM Informational: Updates on Racial Equity and Policing 
The Council will hold a discussion about recent efforts on 
various projects City staff are working on related to racial equity 
and policing in the City. The conversation may include issues of 
community concern about race, equity, and justice in relation to 
law enforcement policies, procedures, budget, and ordinances. 
Discussion may include: 
• An update or report on the newly-created Commission on 
Racial Equity in Policing; and 
• Other project updates or discussion. 
 Allison Rowland briefed the Council noting the dates and times 
of upcoming subcommittee scheduled meetings which were open to the 
public. 
 #3. 2:30:07 PM Ordinance: Proposed Changes to the Police Civilian Review Board

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 3 
 
The Council will be briefed about and will discuss proposed 
ordinance changes to the Police Civilian Review Board (known as 
the PCRB or the CRB). The ordinance outlines civilian oversight of 
police conduct in specific cases through independent complaint 
review processes, and also recommends changes to department policy 
and procedures. Changes could include expanding the size of the 
Board, reducing barriers to serving on the Board, increasing the 
period for complaints to be filed, and mandating an annual briefing 
to the Council, among other changes. View Attachment 
 Allison Rowland, Katherine Lewis, Cindy Gust-Jenson, Mike Brown, Mayor Mendenhall, and Rick Rasmussen (CRB Administrator) 
briefed the Council adding there was no concern with the Board’s 
current practices and the current review was to strengthen the 
efforts of the board. 
Specific items desired for consideration by Council Members 
were listed in the staff report. Ms. Rowland provided a summary of 
the straw polls: 
• Ms. Rowland confirmed the policy was four days to file a 
complaint with the CRB after the individual had filed with 
the police department; complaints could be completed 
directly to the CRB as well, but were provided to the 
Police Department. Council Members discussed the variants 
of 30-60 day consideration. 
o Straw poll: Support amending the City ordinance to 
extend the period after an incident to file a complaint 
to 50 days. All Council Members present were in favor. 
• Ms. Rowland addressed the opportunity of people with 
nonviolent felonies and certain misdemeanors. 
o Straw poll: Support to amend City ordinance to allow 
appointment to the CRB of people with nonviolent 
felonies and certain misdemeanors in their past, but 
who had completed their sentences; and additionally a 
legislative intent to have Chief Brown return to 
Council with further details regarding ride-along 
criteria as part of the training necessary to serve 
on the CRB. All Council Members present were in favor. 
• Ms. Rowland indicated the adjustment from three to five 
Board Members on the panel was considered to address the 
concern of the number of panel members making the decision. 
Additionally, considering the increase of total Board 
Members to 21 to address the increased number of Board 
Members available.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 4 
 
Council Members discussed the participation of 21 members, 
the value of five board members on a panel (difficulty obtaining 
involvement), and if there was specific concern to the current 
required number of three board members on the panel. It was noted 
that on Officer Involved Critical Incidents (OICI) the internal 
practice was to have five on a panel and could cause some waiting 
to complete the request. 
 
o Straw poll: Support to increase number of members to 
21 (three from each district), define quorum as 
majority of members currently seated and review 
ordinance in 12 months. All members present were in favor. 
o Straw poll: Support an amendment to the ordinance to 
require an annual report of the CRB activity to the 
Council. All Council Members present were in favor. 
 
• Ms. Rowland shared the consideration of an honorarium to 
the members of the CRB and noted that the Racial Equity in 
Policing Commission members received a fixed annual 
honorarium (dependent upon the position in the group), 
including the cost of childcare, high speed internet, and 
the difficulty of time to increase diversity of interested 
residents to serve on the CRB. 
 Mayor Mendenhall noted a potential review of involving Board 
Members to replace those who were unable to continue serving, and 
the stipend assisted in the participation and engagement of City 
efforts of improvement from a holistic perspective. Mayor 
Mendenhall also noted a desire to have additional conversations to 
discuss a suitable measure the City could offer to Board Members 
involved. 
 
o Straw poll: Not in support of the addition of an 
honorarium to the ordinance for serving members of 
the CRB (details yet to be determined), including a 
legislative intent to hold a discussion regarding 
honoraria for overall City Boards and Commission. Council Members Fowler and Wharton supported the straw poll; Councilmembers Johnston, Dugan, Mano, and Rogers did not support the straw poll. 
o Straw poll: Support a study on honoraria and 
potentially amend the Boards & Commissions ordinance. All Council Members present were in favor.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 5 
 
• Ms. Rowland summarized budget requests and potential 
legislative intents including provision of adequately 
distanced workspace to address confidentiality of body-
worn camera footage (independent of COVID-19), 
communication staff and media and to encourage service on 
the board, and a succession plan and formalized policies. 
 
Council Members discussed Staff workload and communication 
efforts. Mayor Mendenhall noted the Administration would provide 
a summary of information relating to the various boards and 
commissions. 
o Straw Poll: Support to provide an adequate workspace 
for panel discussions, equipped for social distancing 
and to allow confidential police body-worn camera 
footage be shown to the group. All Council Members present were in favor. 
o Straw Poll: Support to formally note a legislative 
intent to expand efforts to provide communications 
staff, or the opportunity to contract with a private 
firm for this purpose. All Council Members present were in favor. 
o Straw Poll: Support to request the Administration 
design a succession plan for the Administrator/ 
Investigator position and legislative intent to 
signal potential future ordinance changes: On-going, 
independent, random audits of police body-worn camera 
footage by the CRB Administrator/Investigator or 
another entity. All Council Members present were in favor. 
Discussion was held about the interest of CRB Board Members 
to meet frequently with Council Members in a small group setting 
arranged outside of the public meeting. Additionally, it was 
mentioned there may be legislative action from the State level on 
the speed of the rulings from the District Attorney’s office on 
OICI cases. 
 Ms. Rowland said she would review the discussion/decisions 
and bring information back to the Council. 
 #4. 3:35:43 PM Informational: Comprehensive Housing and Planning Petition Briefing 
The Council will receive a briefing from the Department of 
Community and Neighborhood staff on a variety of planning petitions 
related to housing issues in the City. These issues include

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 6 
 
affordability, increasing housing supply, diversifying housing 
options, and neighborhood compatibility. The goal of this 
comprehensive briefing is so the Council and the public can link 
proposals together that will be considered in the next few months 
(whether active petitions, pending, or not yet determined) and 
consider them with a “big picture” policy context. Some of the 
topics that may be discussed include, but are not limited to: RMF-
30 Text Amendment, Shared Housing Text Amendment, Off Street 
Parking Text Amendment, Affordable Housing Overlay, and 
Residential Housing Loss Mitigation. 
 
Please note: The Council will not take action on these 
proposals at this meeting. Each item may have future stand-alone 
briefings and public hearings before the Council takes action. View Attachment Nick Tarbet, Blake Thomas, Angela Price, Sara Javoronok, Susan Lundmark, Nick Norris, Jonathan Larsen, Jennifer Bruno, and Lani Eggertsen-Goff briefed the Council with attachments. 
Challenges and solutions shared by the members of Community & 
Neighborhood Divisions included the following solutions to build 
an equitable and holistic city: 
• Addressing housing affordability & affordable housing 
• Planning and zoning items including residential land 
area availability, compatibility in neighborhoods, value 
assessment, and housing loss mitigation efforts; 
consideration of residential units and height 
adjustments through the various proposals of shared 
housing, RMF-30 and Accessory Dwelling Units. 
• Transportation items included increased mobility of 
public transit, walkability, and further development of 
the Street Typologies guide, Transit Master Plan and 
Transportation Master Plan. 
• Gentrification study to include economic stability 
overview, housing loss mitigation, and housing 
relocation assistance program reviewed through the lens 
of urban revitalization and gentrification. 
 Councilmember Johnston commented on housing cost disparity, 
housing equity, and inquired about the City’s goal and efforts 
outlined. 
 Councilmember Mano commented on the component of areas which 
were affordable being increasingly unaffordable.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 7 
 
 Councilmember Rogers noted destiny was in the hands of the 
City when the property was owned by the City. 
 Mr. Norris and Ms. Eggertsen-Goff addressed the comments from 
Council Members. Responses included the requirement to consider 
housing in more places in the City (not only in transit corridors, 
400 West or Sugar House) and to facilitate partnerships with 
entities to maximize opportunities for City-owned property. 
 Councilmember Dugan noted transportation was essential to the 
consideration. 
 Mr. Larsen addressed the comment but had technical 
difficulties and a memorandum was proposed to be provided to the 
Council. 
 
Further discussion addressed the potential funding 
opportunity to assist with the workload in HAND and Community & 
Neighborhoods (CAN) to further promote the time available by staff 
to work toward the Housing Loss Mitigation plan and some of the 
zoning issues. 
 Mr. Thomas agreed to provide a memorandum on the option of 
including the funding in Budget Amendment No. 5 on December 8, 
2020. 
 #5. 4:51:14 PM Tentative Break 
 #6. 5:13:10 PM Ordinance: Budget Amendment No. 5 for Fiscal Year 2020-21 Follow-up Briefing 
The Council will receive a follow-up briefing about an 
ordinance that would amend the final budget of Salt Lake City, 
including the employment staffing document, for Fiscal Year 2020-
21. Budget amendments happen several times each year to reflect 
adjustments to the City’s budgets, including proposed project 
additions and modifications. The proposal includes: 
• accepting $7.1 million in U.S. Housing and Urban Development 
(HUD) CARES Act grants which will be awarded to specific 
community organizations through a separate, open, and 
competitive process; 
• adding temporary lighting near homeless resource centers; 
• repairs to City sidewalks damaged during the September 8, 
2020 windstorm;

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 8 
 
• demolition of the Glendale water park; 
• $20.5 million from the next issuance of the $87 million voter-
approved Streets Reconstruction Bond; 
• and other items. View Attachment 
 
Item pulled. Ms. Bruno said any necessary discussions could 
be held prior to next week’s meeting. 
 #7. 5:14:34 PM Joint City Council-Mayor Resolution: Establishing Electrified Transportation Goals 
The Council will be briefed about a proposed joint resolution 
with Mayor Mendenhall that would establish goals to improve air 
quality and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The focus of the 
resolution is electrification of transportation modes that 
otherwise heavily rely on gasoline, diesel or natural gas (rather 
than the broader scope of “travelwise” strategies such as walking, 
biking or teleworking). If approved, the resolution would 
memorialize Administration and Council commitment, and provide 
direction for City departments and divisions to collaborate on 
transportation strategies that will improve air quality and reduce 
carbon emissions. View Attachment 
 Samuel Owen, Vicki Bennett, and Debbie Lyons briefed the 
Council with attachments. Mr. Owen shared a brief overview of the 
resolution including goals outlined: reduction of fossil fuels, 
improved air quality, public health benefits, electrifying the 
City’s internal fleet, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, managing 
reliable transportation options, equitability and specific goals 
or budgets associations not being defined in the resolution. 
 Ms. Bennett and Ms. Lyons addressed the request as a formal 
opportunity for the City to advance the electrification of 
transportation, addressing climate change and air quality. 
 
There were no questions or comments from Council Members. 
 #8. 5:21:52 PM Informational: Review of 2021 Annual Meeting Calendar 
The Council will review the draft 2021 Annual Meeting calendar 
for the City Council, Redevelopment Agency, and Board of 
Canvassers. View Attachment

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 9 
 
Brijette Williams reviewed meeting dates with the Council and 
reported she would return with a revised calendar for additional 
input/approval. 
 STANDING ITEMS 
 #9. REPORT OF THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR. 
 
No discussion was held. 
 #10. REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INCLUDING A REVIEW OF COUNCIL INFORMATION ITEMS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS. 
Report of the Executive Director, including a review of 
Council information items and announcements. The Council may give 
feedback or staff direction on any item related to City Council 
business, including but not limited to scheduling items. 
 
No discussion was held. 
 #11. 5:51:00 PM CONSIDER A MOTION TO ENTER INTO CLOSED SESSION, IN KEEPING WITH UTAH CODE §52-4-205 FOR ANY ALLOWED PURPOSE. 
 
Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Mano seconded to 
enter into Closed Session to discuss pending or imminent litigation 
pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-205(1)(c) and Advice of Counsel. A 
roll call vote was taken. Council Members Johnston, Wharton, Dugan, 
Mano, Fowler, and Rogers voted aye. See File M 20-1 for Sworn 
Statement. In Attendance: Council Members Johnston, Wharton, Fowler, Dugan, 
Rogers, and Mano. 
 Absent: Councilmember Valdemoros. 
 Others in Attendance: Erin Mendenhall, Rachel Otto, Lisa Shaffer, 
Cindy Gust-Jenson, Robert Nutzman, Allison Rowland, Jan Aramaki, 
Jennifer Bruno, Kira Luke, Lehua Weaver, Samuel Owen, and Cindy 
Lou Trishman. 
 
 The Work Session meeting adjourned at 5:52 p.m. 
 
The Closed Session adjourned at 6:32 p.m.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 
20 - 10 
 
Minutes Approved: Tuesday, March 2, 2021 
 
 
_______________________________ 
COUNCIL CHAIR 
 
 
_______________________________ 
CITY RECORDER 
 
This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript 
as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio 
or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held 
December 1, 2020. 
 
sc/clt 
Chris Wharton (Mar 9, 2021 18:32 MST)
Cindy Trishman (Mar 9, 2021 21:07 MST)

12-1-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes
(adopted 3-2-21)
Final Audit Report 2021-03-10
Created:2021-03-03
By:Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAl9JDXxxZADUVRCwj5aO93sRkz6B1E8vR
"12-1-20 Work Session Meeting Minutes (adopted 3-2-21)" Histo
ry
Document created by Kory Solorio (kory.solorio@slcgov.com)
2021-03-03 - 5:24:10 PM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-03-03 - 5:25:07 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-03-10 - 1:32:13 AM GMT- IP address: 73.63.28.254
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-03-10 - 1:32:22 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 73.63.28.254
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-03-10 - 1:32:24 AM GMT
Email viewed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
2021-03-10 - 4:06:38 AM GMT- IP address: 136.60.227.10
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-03-10 - 4:07:10 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 136.60.227.10
Agreement completed.
2021-03-10 - 4:07:10 AM GMT
