> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-12-01
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 20 - 1 
The City Council of Salt Lake City, Utah, met in an electronic Formal 
Session on Tuesday, December 1, 2020 pursuant to the Chair determination 
and Salt Lake City Emergency Proclamation No. 2 of 2020 (2)(b). 
 
 The following Council Members participated electronically: 
 
Chris Wharton Amy Fowler James Rogers 
Andrew Johnston Daniel Dugan Darin Mano 
 
The following Councilmember was absent: 
 
 Analia Valdemoros 
 
Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive Director; Jennifer Bruno, 
Council Executive Deputy Director; Erin Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto, 
Mayor’s Chief of Staff; Katherine Lewis, City Attorney; Brian Fullmer, 
Council Constituent Liaison/Policy Analyst; Samuel Owen, Council Public 
Policy Analyst; Benjamin Luedtke, Council Public Policy Analyst; and 
DeeDee Robinson, Deputy City Recorder participated electronically. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 7:05 p.m. 
 A. OPENING CEREMONY 
 #1. 7:05:03 PM Council Member Chris Wharton will conduct the formal meetings. 
 #2. 7:05:21 PM Pledge of Allegiance. (A moment of silence was held 
while the American Flag/Anthem was displayed on the screen) #3. 7:06:11 PM Welcome and Public Meeting rules. #4. 7:06:30 PM Councilmember Dugan moved and Councilmember Fowler 
seconded to approve the formal meeting minutes of Tuesday, October 20, 2020, which motion carried, all members present voted aye, except 
Councilmember Johnston who was absent for the vote (roll call). View Minutes (M 20-3) #5. 7:07:31 PM The Council will consider adopting a joint ceremonial resolution with Mayor Mendenhall in support of creating the Fairpark Public Market in partnership with the State of Utah and Salt Lake County. View Attachment Councilmember Rogers read the resolution.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 20 - 2 
 The resolution was presented to David Lewis, Chairman of the Board 
of Utah State Fairpark Corporation, and Larry Mullenax, Executive 
Director of Utah State Fairpark Corporation. Councilmember Rogers moved and Councilmember Fowler seconded to 
adopt Resolution 40 of 2020, which motion carried, all members present 
voted aye, except Councilmember Johnston who was absent for the vote 
(roll call). (R 20-1) 
 B. PUBLIC HEARINGS 
 Note: Comments/materials submitted to the City Council have been attached as part of the official record. Click link to view. https://www.slc.gov/council/virtual-meeting-comments/ 
 
 #1. 7:20:43 PM Ordinance: Street Vacation Near 800 North and Warm Springs Road. The Council will accept public comment and consider 
adopting an ordinance that would close a portion of 800 North Street 
adjacent to I-15 and Warm Springs Road. The applicant owns the property 
to the north and proposes that the vacated area will be split between 
the owners to the north and south. The closure will not impact traffic 
or access. The subject right-of-way is no longer used as a roadway and 
is generally unoccupied. Petition No. PLNPCM2019-00824. View Attachment Brian Fullmer, Council Constituent Liaison/Policy Analyst, 
introduced the attached proposal. 
 
 Dewey Regan, Nate Secrist, and Lynn Wall (property owner to the 
south) indicated they were present only to listen. 
 Councilmember Mano moved and Councilmember Johnston seconded to close the public hearing and defer action to a future meeting, which 
motion carried, all members present voted aye (roll call). (P 20-24) 
 
 #2. 7:24:37 PM Resolution: 2020 Salt Lake City Water Conservation Plan. The Council will accept public comment and consider adopting a 
resolution that would adopt the Department of Public Utilities’ 2020 
City Water Conservation Plan. The updated plan was developed per the 
State’s Conservation Plan Act, in addition to other State and regional 
guidelines and industry best practices. Guidelines for plan development, 
as well as requirements in the conservation plans, include: 
 • Water supply; 
 • Historical water demand; 
 • Water conservation goals; 
 • Conservation program information; and

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 20 - 3 
 • Adoption or approval by each water provider's governing body. 
 
The State Conservation Plan Act requires all water providers with more 
than 5,000 connections to submit a water conservation plan to the State 
every five years for review and approval. Implementation of the Water 
Conservation Program is included in the Public Utilities proposed budget 
each year. View Attachment Samuel Owen, Council Public Policy Analyst, introduced the attached 
proposal. 
 Cindy Cromer spoke in support of the proposal and referenced 
information regarding the Water Maps Program (Page 4-35), and said she 
looked forward to reading the document without “draft” stamped on every 
page. 
 Anne Charles spoke regarding wanting to ensure accurate reporting 
within the plan, high water usage in the City, and the utilization of 
native/low water use plants/planting. 
 George Chapman expressed concerns regarding the plan needing more 
flexibility with residents who wanted to conserve water (reducing 
landscape/park strip planting requirements) and eliminating the need for 
Zoning Enforcement citations regarding lack of landscaping. 
 Emily Alworth said rebates/cost initiatives encouraged residents to 
be involved and more funding/effort should go to Demonstration Garden & 
SLCWise; however, the information on the website was outdated, and 
suggested collaboration with local horticulturalists to help guide up-
to-date information. 
 Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to close the public hearing and defer action to a future meeting, which 
motion carried, all members present voted aye (roll call). (T 20-5) #3. 7:35:00 PM Ordinance: Dockless Shared Mobility. The Council will 
accept public comment and consider adopting an ordinance that would 
regulate the use of electric scooters and other dockless, shared mobility 
devices in the City. The Council would also consider amending the 
Consolidated Fee Schedule as part of the dockless shared mobility device 
ordinance. Currently, dockless scooter companies operate under temporary 
operating agreements until an ordinance is passed. The latest version of 
a draft ordinance was sent to the Council in March 2020. The updated 
ordinance incorporates some feedback and concerns including additional 
requirements for safety features, insurance requirement changes, and 
language to better differentiate between scooters and devices – motorized

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 20 - 4 
or otherwise – used by individuals with reduced or specialized mobility, 
among other changes. View Attachment Mr. Owen introduced the attached proposal. 
 Ado Milicevic, Mackenzie Viau, and Alex April provided comments in 
support of the proposal. Comments in summary included: 
• Scooters helping to fill transportation gaps; 
• Prioritizing safety and implementing best practices; 
• Commitment to ensuring scooters were properly parked and not ridden 
on sidewalks; and 
• Support for hybrid fee structure (upfront fee & .10 cent per trip) 
 Dave Iltis expressed concerns regarding the proposal, including: 
parking limitations (where scooters/shared mobility could park) being 
more restrictive than automobiles, no bike lanes provided on ¾ of City 
streets (100 South, State Street, etc.), and the need for insurance 
limits to be codified in the ordinance. 
 George Chapman suggested the City allow bicycle riding on downtown 
sidewalks and said scooters should not be allowed in the City until they 
were required to have speed limiting switches (reducing speed to 5 miles 
per hour). 
 Mike Christensen indicated he was present only to listen. 
 
Councilmember Mano moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to close the public hearing and defer action to a future meeting, which motion 
carried, all members present voted aye (roll call). (O 20-12) 
 #4. 7:49:23 PM Ordinances: Creating an Appeal Hearing Officer System by Repealing Civil Service Commission and Employee Appeals Board. The 
Council will accept public comment and consider adopting two ordinances: 
1. One would repeal City Code Chapter 2.16 (the Civil Service 
Commission ordinance), amend the entirety of City Code 2.24 (the 
Employee Appeals Board ordinance) and replace both the Civil Service 
Commission and the Employee Appeals Board with an appeal hearing 
officer system. 
2. One would enact Chapter 2.98 Competitive Merit-based Recruitment 
and Promotion Processes in the Fire Department and the Police 
Department. 
 
The numbering of City Code 2.24 would remain the same, however the 
entire text would be replaced with the new hearing officer system for 
all eligible employee appeals. View Attachment

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 20 - 5 
 
 Benjamin Luedtke, Council Public Policy Analyst, introduced the 
attached proposal and indicated the Council would vote on the item at 
the December 8, 2020 meeting. 
 George Chapman spoke in opposition of the proposal and suggested 
the ordinance needed further analysis/buy-in from Public Safety 
employees. He added the proposal would encourage more employees to leave 
Public Safety (already down 50 employees) and expressed concern that the 
burden would lie with only one person (eliminating Civil Service 
Commission & Employee Appeals Board). 
 Anne Charles indicated she was present only to listen. 
 
 Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to close the public hearing and defer action to a future meeting, which 
motion carried, all members present voted aye (roll call). (O 20-18) 
 C. POTENTIAL ACTION ITEMS 
 
 NONE. 
 D. COMMENTS 
 
 #1. Questions to the Mayor from the City Council. 
 
 There were no questions. 
 
 #2. 7:55:06 PM Comments to the City Council. 
 
 Councilmember Wharton read the modified rules for general comments 
and reiterated the rules of decorum. 
 Arthur Sandack indicated he did not have any comments at this time. 
 Yvette Melby-Garcia requested the City consider enacting a 
law/ordinance to restrict open carry (firearms) in public parks/public 
spaces, after experiencing an uncomfortable/threatening situation at 
Sugar House Park with individuals carrying guns (threatening violence). 
 
 Councilmember Wharton said this would be an issue regulated by State 
law and said Staff could provide the appropriate contact information. 
 
 8:07:19 PM Councilmember Wharton said the Mayor had suggested Ms. 
Melby-Garcia file a police report for a potential hate-crime and/or 
reported to the FBI as hate-rhetoric.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 20 - 6 
 Anne Charles expressed support for the Fairpark Market initiative 
and concerns regarding information pertaining to Raise Up SLC (unable to 
find information on how to apply or who would qualify). 
 Dave Iltis spoke regarding issues concerning the Council’s website 
for agenda/agenda materials (needing to be fixed for mobile viewing – 
creating technology barriers), the City’s plan for use of downed trees 
from windstorm (avoid sending to landfill), and 2200 West being an 
environmental tragedy (wet lands destroyed, too many warehouses). 
 George Chapman suggested the City collaborate with the County 
(animal services) regarding re-implementation of pet licenses for 
seniors, additional lighting and mobile cop-cams were needed at resource 
centers and reducing diesel truck pollution (from idling) was needed. 
 Emily Alworth spoke regarding City/Council website accessibility 
and said all citizens of Salt Lake City needed better access to the 
information which would lead to a more informed public. 
 
 Councilmember Johnston took a moment of personal privilege and said 
he wanted more specific information on website access issues that the 
public was experiencing. Jennifer Bruno said Staff would be following up 
with the individuals to find out more about their difficulties accessing 
information on the City’s website. 
 Lisa Hazel expressed concerns regarding City street lighting (too 
bright), and that her requests to Public Utilities for low-color 
temperature bulbs, had not been answered. She said this issue was 
important for wildlife and insects in general. 
 E. NEW BUSINESS 
 
 NONE. 
 F. UNFINISHED BUSINESS 
 
 #1. 8:17:39 PM Ordinance: Police Officer Body-worn Cameras. The 
Council will consider adopting a new ordinance for the Police 
Department’s use of body-worn cameras. The Police Department has policies 
for body-worn camera use and there have been executive orders relating 
to footage release. Currently, however, there is not a City ordinance 
that standardizes the policy direction. This is part of a multifaceted 
approach the City is taking to examine internal systems and identify 
paths toward better accountability and equity. View Attachments 
 
 Councilmember Mano moved and Councilmember Dugan seconded to adopt Ordinance 54 of 2020, enacting Chapter 2.10.200 Regulating the Police

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL FORMAL MEETING TUESDAY, DECEMBER 1, 2020 
 
 20 - 7 
Department’s Use of Body-worn Cameras, further moving that the Council adopt the following legislative intent: 
• It is the intent of the Council that the Administration explore additional mechanisms to increase transparency and accountability as it relates to the regular auditing of body camera footage and that future modifications may be made to the ordinance to codify these mechanisms, which motion carried, all members present voted aye (roll 
call). (O 20-19) G. CONSENT 
 
 NONE. 
 The meeting adjourned at 8:19 p.m. 
 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
Council Chair 
 
 
 
______________________________ 
City Recorder 
 
 
This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript as 
additional discussion may have been held; please refer to the audio or 
video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the Salt Lake City Formal Session held December 1, 
2020. 
 
dr 
 
Chris Wharton (Jan 11, 2021 19:59 MST)
Cindy Trishman (Jan 12, 2021 17:17 MST)

Dec 1, 2020 - Formal Meeting Minutes
Final Audit Report 2021-01-13
Created:2021-01-08
By:Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAFw2tfVmkqAvPfSrJg9BvrPiuq2XTArMO
"Dec 1, 2020 - Formal Meeting Minutes" History
Document created by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
2021-01-08 - 5:45:46 AM GMT- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-01-08 - 5:46:22 AM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-01-12 - 2:58:53 AM GMT- IP address: 73.63.28.254
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-01-12 - 2:59:10 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 73.63.28.254
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-01-12 - 2:59:12 AM GMT
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-01-13 - 0:17:03 AM GMT - Time Source: server- IP address: 204.124.13.151
Agreement completed.
2021-01-13 - 0:17:03 AM GMT
