  
 
 
  
 
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT 
Title 18 Repeal and Replace 
 
Public Body: Salt Lake County Council 
Meeting Date:  January 23, 2024  
Request: Repeal and Replace Title 18 Subdivisions 
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning Manager 
Legal Counsel: Zach Shaw 
Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval  
 
SUMMARY  
An overhaul of Title 18 Subdivisions is long overdue.  Very few changes have been made to Title 18 since 
Salt Lake County changed its form of government at the turn of the century, and much has taken place 
since then, including a major change of government  and service provider for what at that time was the 
unincorporated county.  MSD Planning, with significant input from the District Attorney’s Office and 
Mayor’s office, has prepared a comprehensive update of Salt Lake County’s subdivision ordinances.  The 
proposed ordinance included some aspects of the existing County Subdivision Ordinance but is 
reformatted for ease of use by the public and the staff. The proposed ordinance makes use of modern 
best practices in subdivision regulations  and complies with state code mandates and limitations. The 
proposed ordinance is informed by subdivision ordinances from other jurisdictions along the Wasatch 
Front and by the over 60 years of planning experience on the MSD Planning Staff. Much of the subdivision 
ordinance is about the process of approving a subdivision  and the technical engineering and surveying 
aspects of land development. The County Surveyor and Public Works Engineering were consulted during 
the writing of the proposed ordinance.  
The District Attorney’s Office has reviewed and revised the draft ordinance with input from the Mayor’s 
Office. This staff report will focus on the material policy changes that would result from the adoption of 
the Title 18  draft ordinance. The County Council  and public are welcome to give feedback on the 
procedural and technical aspects of the draft ordinance as well. 
  
OAM2023-001026 
BACKGROUND  
Utah Code, Chapter 17-27a, which is also known as the County Land Use, Development, and 
Management Act (CLUDMA), authorizes counties to regulate land use and sets the parameters to which 
those land uses can be regulated. Part 6 of CLUDMA authorizes the County to enact a subdivision 
ordinance in accordance with the provisions of CLUDMA. Titles 18 Subdivisions, and 19 Zoning, 
constitute Salt Lake County’s land use regulations. Title 18 is the portion of Salt Lake County’s code 
regulating subdivisions within Salt Lake County.  
Because the legislature tweaks CLUDMA every year the parameters surrounding subdivisions often 
change. These changes can lead to inconsistencies between the County’s Subdivision Ordinance and 
CLUDMA. The County and MSD Staffs had been working on updating Title 18 to account for legislative 
changes in earlier years when the 2023 legislative session began. During the 2023 legislative session, HB 
174 and HB 406 were introduced and included some substantial changes including the introduction of 
subdivision review timeframes, limits on the number of review cycles, complications to implementing 
Development Agreements, and maximum residential road widths, among others. The changes 
associated with HB 174 and HB 406 have an implementation deadline of February 2024. 
The proposed ordinance is intended to simplify the processes and application requirements and make 
them more accessible and understandable to the public. The proposed ordinance formalizes the 
informal policies that have been developed over the years to make an outdated subdivision ordinance 
function.  
PROPOSED POLICY CHANGES  
1. Development Agreements (section 18.04.040).  These changes largely reflect recent revisions to 
CLUDMA in HB406 (2023 session), namely that the county must disclose clearly restricted 
CLUDMA rights that are negotiated in a development agreement (this provision was a response 
to a situation in Washington County in which that county allegedly insisted on provisions in a 
development agreement that were contrary to CLUDMA)  The section codifies in ordinance the 
County’s ability to enter into development agreements and outlines how those are processed.   
2. Staff approval of single-lot subdivisions (18.08.010).  Under this section, the Planning Director is 
able to approve single-lot subdivisions, rather than the planning commission.  These 
subdivisions would not require a public meeting or hearing.  The intent of this section is to 
streamline the process for small subdivisions, which have less impact on surrounding properties 
and create less need for public involvement.  Public involvement is less relevant with such small 
subdivisions, where the sole inquiry is whether applicable ordinances have been satisfied.  
Recent changes in state law explicitly permit this approach.  See Utah Code section 17-27a-
604.1(6).   
3. Concept Plan (section 18.08.050).  This is another outgrowth of recent legislation (SB 174, (2023 
session)).  Although the County already allows an informal process to consider concept plans 
before a subdivision application is filed, this section codifies MSD Planning practices and also 
ensures that those practices comply with SB174.   
4. Review of Final Plat and Associated Documents (section 18.08.090).  Yet another outgrowth of 
recent legislation (SB174 again).  This section codifies the 20 business-day shot clocks for review 
of final plats and associated documents, along with the other final plat review processes in 
SB174.   
5.  Concept Plan Meeting (Section 18.10.020).  SB174 requires that an applicant’s request for a pre-
application concept plan meeting be held within 15 business days of the request.  This section 
codifies that requirement and also details expectations for both MSD Planning and the applicant 
for such meeting.  This largely codifies current practice.   
6. Subdivision Design Standards (18.12).  MSD Planning has recommended the adoption of a 
number of subdivision design standards and/or changes to existing design standards as follows: 
a. Street/road standards (18.12.030), including street cross-sections, street alignment, 
stub streets, cul-de-sac standards (generally discouraged to encourage walkability and 
traffic flow), points of access, etc.   
b. Block standards (18.12.040).  Maximum length of block reduced from 1,600’ to 660’.  
Shortening blocks makes for a more walkable community, more street connections, and 
better traffic flow.  In some cases, it may require developers to install additional cross 
streets, which may result in a minimal reduction of the amount of net density, dwelling 
units or developable area.     
c. Lot standards (18.12.050).  Irregular elongations to achieve minimum lot size are 
prohibited.  Additional standards were added to provide greater guidance regarding 
private street widths, corner lots, and double frontage lots.   
7. Flag lots.  The draft ordinance (18.12.070) codifies Salt Lake County’s flag lot policy that has 
existed for many years, but recent legislative changes have required such changes to be codified 
in ordinance.  Flag lots occur when a large lot is subdivided into two lots, with a new rear lot 
being created, which is accessed via an easement across the front lot (the access looking like a 
flag pole and the rear lot looking like a flag, hence the term flag lot).  Flag lots are useful tools 
for infill development, which increases the housing stock in the unincorporated county, an 
element of the affordable housing equation.   
8. Trails (18.14.120).  These changes are focused on bringing trail exactions (requirements that 
developers provide public trails associated with their developments) into compliance with 
federal and state law.   
9. Fencing (18.14.170).  Where lots rear on a public street, the MSD proposed that the fencing 
requirement be changed from any solid visual fence to a decorative masonry wall.  This would 
increase costs to developers (which will be passed on to the consumer) but will be more 
aesthetically pleasing to the community.  After vetting with the Mayor’s Office, the draft 
ordinance does not require masonry wall, but less costly materials must have quality design.    
10. Performance Bonds (18.16.020).  Some changes in this section are in response to legislation 
passed a few years ago limiting the warranty portion of these bonds that can be withheld and 
the time they can be withheld (state law changed from 20% to 10% that can be withheld and 
changed from 2 years to 1 year that they can be withheld for).  Another proposed change was 
eliminating surety bonds as an option for developers (but retaining cash bonds, letters of credit, 
and escrow agreements as options).  Surety bonds can be challenging to enforce/call on, but 
they are a common form of security used by developers.  It is rare that the county has to enforce 
the bonds.  Because these bonds are so prevalent in the industry, are rarely enforced, and free 
up capital for construction of more housing, the surety bond option was retained in the draft 
ordinance.   
11. Approval of subdivision amendments (18.18.030(D) and 18.18.060).  Under current ordinance, 
the Mayor or designee holds a hearing and approves subdivision amendments when consent 
from all property owners within the subdivision is not possible.  The draft ordinance provides for 
the planning commission to do this.   
12. Vacating public streets (18.18.050).  This draft ordinance significantly revises the county’s 
existing ordinance.  However, the proposed change is helpful because it adopts the process that 
currently exists in state law.  By pivoting to state law, the draft ordinance removes the 
discussion and policy reasons for receiving or waiving compensation when a public street is 
vacated.  Some of the language from the current statute relative to the question of 
compensation for vacated streets is retained.   
13. Maintenance of public walkways (18.12.040).    The proposed ordinance requires developers to 
build walkways between streets and other streets or improvements (such as parks) when 
necessary to provide connectivity/walkability.  However, someone must provide maintenance of 
such walkways after they are constructed.  The reasonable candidate is the entity that owns the 
streets and/or improvements that are connected by the walkways.  For streets/improvements 
dedicated to/owned by the County, the County would be responsible for such maintenance.   
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS 
The Salt Lake County Planning Commission held a public hearing on the proposed ordinance on November 
15, 2023. The Salt Lake County Planning Commission recommended that the Salt Lake County Council 
repeal and replace Title 18 with the ordinance attached to this staff report (Attachment 1). 
The Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission held a public hearing on the proposed ordinance 
on November 16, 2023. The Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission recommended that the 
Salt Lake County Council repeal and replace  Title 1 8 with the ordinance attached to this staff report 
(Attachment 1). 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION 
The County and MSD Planning Staffs have developed a subdivision ordinance to for Salt Lake County. Staff 
find that the proposed ordinance: 
1.  Complies with applicable State Code; 
2. Clarifies application requirements and the approval process for subdivisions in Salt Lake County; 
3. Codifies certain County policies as required by state code; 
4. Retains portions of the current County Code that are not outdated rather than change those 
portions for the sake of change. This will serve to preserve continuity where there is no need for 
change: 
5. Codifies the subdivision plat and the survey requirements associated with subdivision plans in 
accordance with the County Surveyor’s policies and procedures. 
6. Has been vetted by the Salt Lake County Engineering staff to ensure that engineering best 
practices and the standards and specifications are codified; 
7. Was developed by the MSD Planning Staff using planning best practices, experience with the 
subdivision regulations of other jurisdictions, and over 60 years of experience in writing, 
amending, administering, and enforcing land use regulations by the MSD Planning Staff; 
8. Serves to protect the public health, safety, or welfare; and 
9. Complies with Utah Code 17-27a, the County Land Use, Development and Management Act. 
Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action: 
The MSD Staff recommend that Title 18 Subdivisions be repealed and replaced as described in Attachment 
#1. 
 
SALT LAKE COUNTY ORDINANCE 
Ordinance No. _____________       ___________________, 2024 
 
TITLE 18 “SUBDIVISIONS” COMPREHENSIVE UPDATE 
 
AN ORDINANCE REPEALING AND REPLACING TITLE 18 OF THE SALT LAKE 
COUNTY CODE OF ORDINANCES, 2001, ENTITLED “SUBDIVISIONS” IN ORDER TO 
COMPREHENSIVIELY UPDATE THE TITLE TO REFLECT STATE LEGISLATIVE 
CHANGES, CHANGES TO THE PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT SERVICE PROVIDER 
FOR SALT LAKE COUNTY, AND TO OTHERWISE UPDATE SALT LAKE COUNTY 
POLICY ON SUBDIVISIONS TO REFLECT BETTER PRINCIPLES OF PLANNING, 
EFFICIENCY, AND AFFORDABILITY; AND MAKING OTHER RELATED CHANGES. 
 
SECTION I. Title 18 of the Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 2001, entitled 
Subdivisions,” is hereby repealed and replaced as follows: 
 
Chapter 18.02 TITLE, PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.  
18.02.010 - Title.  
This Title is known as "The Subdivision Ordinance of Salt Lake County". This title is also known as Title 18, 
the Salt Lake County Subdivision Ordinance. 
18.02.020 - Purpose.  
A. This ordinance is intended to promote the health, safety, morals, order, prosper ity, and welfare of 
the inhabitants of unincorporated Salt Lake County which includes:  
1. Facilitating the orderly development of the unincorporated county; 
2. Securing efficiency in governmental expenditures;  
3. Implementing the unincorporated county’s transportation plans; 
4. Facilitating the development of a safe and efficient street system; 
5. Facilitating the orderly transfer of the ownership of building sites in a manner consistent with 
state law; 
6. Ensuring adequate water, sewer, drainage, utilities, and other services to developing areas of the 
unincorporated county; and 
7. Establishing the rights, duties, and responsibilities of subdividers with respect to the development 
of subdivisions within the unincorporated county. 
18.02.030 - Applicability.  
All land within the jurisdictional limits of  the unincorporated county  is subject to the provisions of this 
Title.  
18.02.040 – Severability. 
If any provision of this Title is adjudged by any court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, that judgment 
does not affect, impair, invalidate , or nullify the remaining provisions of this Title . The effect of the 
judgment is confined to the provision immediately involved in the controversy in which the judgment or 
decree was rendered.  
 
Chapter 18.04 SUBDIVISION PLANS AND PLATS REQUIRED. 
18.04.010 - Subdivision Plats Required. 
No person may subdivide any tract of land within the jurisdictional limits of the unincorporated county; 
nor shall any person sell, exchange, purchase or otherwise convey a parcel of land which is part of a larger 
tract, if such sale or agreement would have the effect of creating a "subdivision" as defined by Chapter 
19.04, unless and until a Final Plat, prepared in accordance with the provisions of this Title, has been 
reviewed and approved by the land use authority  and recorded in the O ffice of the Salt Lake C ounty 
Recorder consistent with this Title. 
18.04.020 – Exemption from Plat Requirements. 
A division of property that meets the state law standards for exemptions from plat requirement is exempt 
from plat requirements. 
18.04.030 – Lots Created by Metes and Bounds Description. 
A.    In order to ensure the accurate location of property lines and the location of future construction and 
land uses within those property lines ; ensure the orderly dedication of rights -of-way for public 
thoroughfares; and facilitate the orderly transfer of ownership of buildable lots, no property created 
by a "metes and bounds" description and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder may be 
considered eligible for the issuance of a building permit unless: 
1.    The property is recognized as a legal lot of record by the Director or designee, meets all current 
zoning standards, and a plat describing such parcel of land is approved by the Director or designee 
and recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder;  
2.    The property has been recognized by the Director or designee as a nonconforming legal lot of 
record, a plat describing such parcel of land is approved by the Director or designee  and the plat 
is recorded with the Salt Lake County Recorder; or 
3.    The division of property by a “metes and bounds” description is permitted by the subdivision part 
of the County Land Use, Development, and Management Act. 
B.    A plat authorized by this S ection shall be prepared in accordance with final p lat requirements of this 
Title. The improvements required by Titles 14 and 18 of Salt Lake County Code shall be installed at the 
property owner’s or applicant’s expense.  
C.    If a property qualifies as a legal lot of record or a nonconforming legal lot of record and is already 
developed with a dwelling unit, no plat is required. However, a street dedication may still be required. 
18.04.040 – Development Agreements. 
A. The developer/property owner and the county  may choose to enter into a development agreement 
that outlines the duties, responsibilities, obligations, commitments and promises of the 
developer/property owner and the commitments of the county. 
B. A development agreement does not exempt a developer/property owner from complying with the 
development code unless such an exemption is clearly contained within the executed development 
agreement and the council has approved the development agreement after the planning commission 
has held a public hearing and provided a recommendation. 
C. If a development agreement restricts an applicant’s rights under clearly established state law, the 
county shall disclose in writing to the applicant the rights of the applicant that the development 
agreement restricts. 
1. If the county fails to disclose a restricted right in accordance with State Code , that portion of the 
development agreement shall be considered null and void.  
D. The development agreement shall be recorded by the applicant  in the Salt Lake County Recorder's 
Office. Recordation by the applicant  may only take place after all of the necessary signatures are 
obtained, all approvals given, and all bonds and fees posted. The development agreement must be 
recorded prior to the recording of the final plat. 
E. Any development agreemen t entered into by a developer/property owner and the county  shall 
comply with the provisions identified in Utah Code §17-27a-528.  
 
Chapter 18.06 GENERAL REGULATIONS. 
18.06.010 – Time Limits. 
A. Subdivision applications are subject to expiration according to the following schedule unless, for good 
cause shown, the applicant is granted an extension of time by the Director:  
1. A preliminary plat approval expires if a complete final plat application is not submitted to Planning 
and Development Services within one (1) year of the preliminary plat approval.  
a. A preliminary subdivision with an approved phasing plan is granted an automatic preliminary 
subdivision extension of one (1) year for the remaining phases each time a complete final plat 
application for one or more phases is submitted. 
2. A subdivision application expires if public improvements are not timely installed or bonded for as 
follows: 
a. To the extent the applicant chooses to install the required public improvements before the 
plat is recorded, applicant must install the improvements  and record the plat  within one (1) 
year after receiving a final plat approval letter.  The applicant must also post a warranty bond 
in the amount of 10% of the cost of those improvements within that same time period.   
i. The Director may grant a one (1) year extension to the time limit in subsection (A) (2)(a) 
provided the final plans have been updated to address any changes to the applicable 
ordinances and standards that may have been updated or changed since the time of the 
final plat approval. 
b. To the extent the applicant chooses to bond for the required public improvements before the 
plat is recorded, applicant must post a bond for the full  cost of those improvements  and 
record the plat within six (6) months after receiving a final plat approval letter.  The applicant 
must also hold a preconstruction meeting with the Development Review Committee within 
that same time period.    
3. A subdivision application expires if the final plat has not been recorded with the Salt Lake County 
Recorder’s Office within six (6) months of the last date of the required signatures on the plat.  
4. Failure to pursue an application, as evidenced by failure to file a complete application, the lack of 
timely resubmittal in response to the Development Review Committee ’s comments and 
corrections, or failure to communicate delays in a timely manner, shall result in the expiration of 
the application after six (6) months of inaction. 
18.06.020 – Exceptions, Permitted When. 
A. In cases where unusual topographic, aesthetic , or other exceptional conditions exist or the welfare, 
best interests, and safety of the general public will be usefully served or protected, variations and 
exceptions of this Title may be made by the County Mayor after the recommendation of the Planning 
Commission, provided, that such variations and exceptions may only be granted if there is no 
substantial detriment to the public good and no substantial impairment of the intent and purpose of 
this Title. 
B. Any va riation or exception  from engineering standards required by this Title must be based on a 
recommendation by the County Engineering Division to the Planning Commission as to whether: 
1. Strict adherence to this ordinance is not in keeping with sound engineering practice;  
2. The variation or exception  is the minimal variation or exception to this ordinance to keep with 
sound engineering practice; and 
3. The variation or exception is  associated with a specific  hardship at a specific location and not  a 
generally applicable condition. 
  
18.06.030 - Appeals. 
The applicant or any person adversely affected by a final decision on a subdivision  application shall have 
the right to appeal the decision to the Land Use Hearing Officer  by filing a letter with Planning and 
Development Services stating the reasons for appeal within ten (10) days after the decision. The Land Use 
Hearing Officer shall review the record and the decision to determine whether the decision was arbitrary, 
capricious, or illegal. After hearing the appeal, the Land Use Hearing Officer  may affirm, reverse, alter or 
remand the decision for further consideration.  
18.06.040 – Definitions. 
A. General terms used in Title 18 are defined as follows: 
1. "Affected Entity"  has the same meaning as in the state County Land Use, Development, and 
Management Act. 
2. “ Agent”  means a person with written authorization to represent a property owner. 
3. “Boundary Line Agreement” means an agreement to establish the location of a boundary between 
adjoining properties where the location of the boundary is ambiguous, uncertain, or disputed. 
4. “ Buffer”  means an area along the course of any watercourse or roadway or boundary line to be 
maintained without the disturbance of buildings or structures other than fencing, if allowed. 
5. “C oncept Plat / Drawing”  means a drawing that shows the overall concept of a proposed 
development, as further defined in these regulations. 
6. "C ouncil" means the Salt Lake County council, unless otherwise clearly indicated. 
7. "County Engineering Division" means the division or personnel hired by or contracted with Salt 
Lake County to provide engineering services." 
8. “ Culinary Water Authority” means the department, agency, or public entity with the responsibility 
to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water system and sources for the subject 
property. 
9. " Development" means any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate, including 
but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, 
excavation or drilling operations. 
10. “
Development Code”  means Titles 18 and 19 of the Municipal Code. 
11. “Development Review Committee (DRC)”  means Planning and Development Services Staff , in 
consultation with agencies contracted with  or employed by  Salt Lake County for engineering, 
health, fire, and surveying reviews and services. Comments  from other affected entities, service 
providers or other reviewing agencies may also be solicited as needed. 
12. "D irector"  means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Director of Planning and 
Development Services. 
13. " Dwelling" means any building or structure, or portion thereof, intended for residential use. 
14. "Dwelling unit" means one or more rooms physically arranged so as to create an independent 
housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family with separate toilets and facilities for 
cooking and sleeping. Buildings with more than one kitchen or set of cooking facilit ies are 
considered to contain more than one dwelling unit unless the additional cooking facilities are 
clearly accessory to a dwelling unit as determined by the director. Factors for determining 
whether cooking facilities are accessory to a dwelling unit may include but are not limited to:  
a. A building design which allows all occupants ready access to all portions of the building 
including cooking facilities;  
b. No portion of the building containing cooking facilities can be separated from the remaining 
rooms to form a separate dwelling unit;  
c. There is only one electric and/or gas meter for the building. 
15. "Easement" means the grant of a nonpossessory property interest that provides the easement 
holder permission to use another person’s land .  Common easements include rights of way for 
access, or the right to cross property (including easements for utility service or water conveyance.) 
16. " Good Cause"  means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due to 
unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a required act causes 
an imminent and irreparable injury; or acts of nature adverse to performing required acts. 
17. "G
raffiti" means inscriptions, drawings, paintings, or other visual defacing of buildings, structures, 
or natural features, without the consent of the owner thereof, and which is not otherwise 
authorized and permitted in the Salt Lake County ordinances. 
18. “
Health Department”  means the Health Department of Salt Lake County, Utah. 
19. “Land Use Application”  means an application required by the zoning or subdivision ordinances , 
which is filed by a property owner or her agent to obtain a land use decision. 
20. “ Land Use Authority” means the person, board, commission, agency, or other body designated by 
the Salt Lake County Council to act upon a land use application. 
21. “L and Use Decision”  means any final administrative decision of the Salt Lake County council, 
planning commission(s) , or final administrative decision of the Director or other official 
responsible for the enforcement of zoning and subdivision regulations, which is made in response 
to a land use application. 
22. “L and Use Hearing Officer”  means the “Appeal Authority” created pursuant to section 17-27a-701 
of the Utah Code annotated to hear appeals of zoning decisions applying the zoning ordinance as 
provided in Section 19.16.020, and appeals of decisions by the planning commission. The land use 
hearing officer is also the appeal authority for subdivision appeals , subject to Section 18.08.040 
of this Ordinance. The land use hearing officer is also charged with the powers and duties 
enumerated in Section 19.12.040.C of this Title. 
23. “
Legal Lot Of Record”  means: a) any land parcel that existed, as recorded in the Office of the Salt 
Lake County Recorder, with a separate property identification number as provided by the Office 
of the Salt Lake County Recorder and Office of the Salt Lake County Assessor, prior to Decem ber 
17, 1952; and b) all lots that were legally created for the purposes of development pursuant to 
the applicable zoning and subdivision requirements and the laws of the State of Utah after the 
date of first Subdivision Ordinance enactment. 
24. “M
onument”  means a permanent survey marker established by the Salt Lake County Surveyor 
and/or a survey marker set in accordance with the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s specifications and 
referenced to County survey monuments. 
25. “
Natural Condition”  means the topography and vegetation of the area that is unaltered by 
clearing and grading during construction and protected in perpetuity. 
26. "Owner" means either a natural person, firm, association, partnership, private corporation, public 
or quasi-public corporation, or any combination thereof having a majority fee simple interest in 
real property, or a majority interest through any other form of ownership. 
27. " Parcel of Land"  has the same meaning as “Parcel” in the County Land Use, Management, and 
Development Act. 
28. “ Planning and Development Services”  means the Planning and Development Services Department 
of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District. 
29. " Planning Commission"  means the Salt Lake County  planning commission  or the Mountainous 
Planning District planning commission. 
30. “ Road”  has the same meaning as “street.” 
31. “Record of Survey Map” means a map of a survey of land prepared in accordance with Utah Code. 
32. “Sanitary Sewer Authority” means the department, agency, or public entity with responsibility to 
review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services or onsite wastewater systems. 
33. “S tandards and Specifications” means the construction and design requirements and standards 
of Salt Lake County  for the construction and installation of public infrastructure and 
improvements. Such standards and specifications shall be approved by the County Engineer, and 
approved by Resolution of the County Council after it provides notice and holds a public hearing 
in accordance with State law. 
34. "S treet" means a thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to the public and 
accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare, not less than twenty-five feet wide, which 
has been made public by right of use and which affords the principal means of access to abutting 
property. Street does not include alleys or trails.  
35. “ Street, Private” means an access way, other than a driveway, similar to and having substantially 
the same or similar function as a public street, providing access to one or more properties, but 
held in private ownership. 
36. " Street Light"  means a raised light installed within or adjacent to the street right -of-way, turned 
on or lit at a certain time every night. Modern lamps may also have light -sensitive photocells to 
turn them on at dusk and off at sunrise or activate automatically in foul weather.  
37. "S tructure" means anything constructed or erected which requires location on the ground, or 
attached to something having a location on the ground. 
38. Subdiv ision" has the same meaning as in the state County Land, Development, and Management 
Act. 
39. " Subdivision Amendment" has the same meaning as in the state County Land, Development, and 
Management Act. 
40. “ Subject Property”  means the land area for which an approval is required to comply with this 
Ordinance. 
41. " Substantial improvement " means the following, unless defined differently in the Flood Damage 
Prevention Chapter: 
a. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 
fifty percent of the market value of the structure, either:  
i. Before the improvement or repair is started; or  
ii. If the structure is damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred.  
b. For the purpose of this definition, "substantial improvement" is considered to occur when the 
first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences, 
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the structure.  
c. The term does not, however, include either:  
i. Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health, 
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to assure safe living 
conditions; or  
ii. Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a State 
Inventory of Historic Places. 
42. "Trails" means a system of public recreational pathways located within the County for use by the 
public for walking, biking and/or horseback riding as designated. 
43. "U tility Company" means a company regulated by the public service commission that provides a 
service, including but not limited to electricity, telephone, or gas. 
44. “ Vehicle” means a self -propelled device used for transporting persons or things, including, but 
not limited to, automobiles, watercraft, motorcycles, snowmobiles, and recreation vehicles. The 
term does not include heavy machinery. 
B. Site Development terms used in Title 18 are defined as follows: 
1. “Arterial Street” means a street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended to serve as a 
major traffic way and which is designated on the UDOT Functional Classification Map as a 
controlled-access highway, limited-access road, major street, parkway or by equivalent  terms 
suitable to identify streets comprising the basic structure of the street plan. 
2. "
Alley" means a public or private way which affords a secondary means of access to abutting 
property. 
3. “ Buildable Area”  means a lot or portion thereof possessing all of the following physical 
characteristics: 
a. The area contains no territory having a slope of thirty percent (30%) or greater; 
b. The engineering properties of the soil provide adequate structural support for the intended 
use; and 
c. The area does not possess any other recognized natural condition that renders it unsafe for 
building purposes.  Such areas may include (if applicable ordinances cannot be met), but not 
be limited to an identified floodplain or within a recognized inundation zone, mudflow zone 
or zone of deformation, or lands subject to earth slippage, landslide or rockfall. 
4. "Building" means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for the housing or 
enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels. 
5. " Collector Street"  means a street which carries traffic from local streets to the Arterial Street 
system, including the principal entrance streets from  residential development onto an Arterial 
Street and the primary circulating streets within such a development. A collector street may have 
prohibited movements and the number and spacing of driveways may be controlled. 
6. "Cul-de-sac" means a minor street having one open end and being terminated at the other by a 
vehicular turnaround. 
7. “ Dedication” means the conveyance of land by an owner to a public agency for any public use. 
8. "Entrance" means the location of ingress to a room, building, or lot; a location of admittance. 
9. “Fence” means any tangible barrier, latticework, screen, or wall with the purpose of, or having 
the effect of, preventing passage or view across the fence line. 
10. " Final plat"  means a plat map prepared in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance for 
the purpose of subdividing property. A final plat must be based on an accurate survey, and such 
survey marked on the ground so that streets, alleys, blocks, lots, and other divisions thereof can 
be identified. 
11. "F rontage" means the uninterrupted linear or curvilinear extent of a lot, abutting on a street, 
measured along the street right -of-way from the intersection of one side lot line to the 
intersection of the other side lot line. The measurement of lot frontage shall not include 
irregularities in the street line and, in the case of a corner lot, shall extend to the point of 
intersection of the rights-of-way. If a lot has frontage on more than one street, only the frontage 
on one street may be used to satisfy the minimum lot frontage. 
12. “G
rade, finished”  or “Grade, final” means the topographic elevations where the earth meets the 
building, upon project completion. Excluded from this definition are window wells serving 
basement rooms.  
13. “
Grade, natural”  or “Grade, existing” means the topographic elevations representing the surface 
of the ground prior to grading, filling, or other site alterations for a project. When natural grade 
is not readily apparent, an approximation of preexisting conditions using grades on adjacent sites, 
retaining walls, prior survey maps, etc., may be used as a reference for determining natural grade. 
All such grade approximations shall require the concurrence of the Director.  
14. “
Guarantee” means a bond given by the applicant(a) to ensure the proper installation of public 
and other required infrastructure and improvements. 
15. " Intensity" means the concentration of activity, such as a combination of the number of people, 
cars, visitors, customers, hours of operation, outdoor advertising, etc.; the term also refers to the 
size of buildings or structures, the most intense being higher, longer and/or wider. 
16. “Irrigation Component” means the network of ditches, canals, and associated structures (such as 
diversion points, weirs, gates, and check structures) that collectively form the irrigation 
infrastructure. 
17. "Lot" means a parcel of land occupied or proposed to be occupied by a building or buildings, 
together with such yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot areas as are required by this title, and 
having frontage upon a street or a right-of-way as required by this title. Except as provided in this 
title, not more than one dwelling structure shall occupy one lot. 
18. "L
ot, Corner"  means a lot abutting on two intersecting or intercepting streets, where the interior 
angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred thirty-five degrees. 
19. “ Lot, Double Fronting”  means a lot having frontage on two (2) streets that are parallel or nearly 
so or do not intersect. 
20. “ Lot Line Adjustment”  has the same meaning as in the state County Land Use, Development, and 
Management Act. 
21. “Lot Line, Side” means any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line. 
22. "Lot Width" means the distance between the side lot lines measured at the required front yard 
setback line. For a corner lot, the lot width is the distance between one of the front lot lines and 
the opposite side yard line at the required front yard setback line. 
23. Nuisance strip: A strip of land smaller than a lot retained in private ownership for the purpose of 
controlling access to land dedicated or intended to be dedicated to street or other public use. 
24. “Off Street Parking” means a site or a portion of a site, devoted to the off-street parking of vehicles 
and providing vehicular access to a public or private street.  Off Street Parking includes, as 
permitted by this Ordinance, parking spaces, aisles, access drives, and landscaped areas. 
25. “
Open Space”  means an area of land or water set aside to be preserved or reserved for use by 
residents of the development or the public. Open space includes an expanse of lawn, trees, plants, 
or other natural areas, together with any landscaped area of the site including required yards, 
setbacks, walkways, and limited common areas. It does not include parking, driveways, or 
buildings with habitable space for primary uses, but may include buildings for the purpose of 
providing an amenity. Open space may be distributed throughout the development and need not 
be in a single large area. Open space may include sensitive areas, such as areas with 30% or greater 
slope, fault zones, floodplains, high water tables, and wetlands if they have been designed as an 
integral element of the project. Any additional amenity that is located on the roof of a building 
shall not be considered open space. 
26. "P
arking Space" means space within a building, lot, or parking lot for the parking or storage of one 
automobile. 
27. " Preliminary Approval"  means an approval, with or without recommended alterations, given to a 
preliminary plat by the planning commission and provides the necessary authority to proceed 
with the preparation and presentation of the final plat.  
28. " Preliminary Plat" means a map or plan of a proposed land division or subdivision. It is a  drawing 
that shows the perimeter boundary, topography, lot layout arrangement, street layout, and other 
features of a proposed subdivision, as specified for a Preliminary Plat in the Ordinance. 
29. “ Public Utility Easement”  means an area on a recorded plat map or other recorded document that 
is dedicated to the use and installation of public utility lines, mains, services, and minor facilities. 
30. “ Setback”  means a distance from a curb, property line, or structure within which building is 
prohibited. 
31. “ Water Master”  means the superintendent or other officer in charge of the distribution of water 
from an irrigating canal or ditch. 
32. " Yard"  means a space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground 
upward by buildings or structures, except as follows:  
a. Fences and walls that conform with this Ordinance.  
b. Landscape elements including trees, shrubs, and other plants.  
c. Necessary appurtenances for utility services associated with minor public utilities.  
d. Planter boxes or masonry planters not exceeding twenty-four inches (24”) in height.  
e. Cornices, eaves, belt courses, buttresses, and other similar architectural features that project 
into any yard not more than two feet (2’).  
f. Bay windows, cantilevered floors, and fireplace structures that project into any yard not more 
than two feet (2’), provided that they are not wider than eight feet (8’) wide.  
g. Porches, door stoops, awnings, fire escapes, and stairways that project into an interior side 
yard not more than two feet (2’) and that project into a front, rear, or corner side yard not 
more than four feet (4’).  
h. Accessory structures that otherwise comply with this Ordinance. 
33. "Yard, Front" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the front line of the building 
and the front lot line, and extending across the full width of the lot. The "depth" of the front yard 
is the minimum distance between the front lot line and the front line of the building. 
34. “
Yard, Required”  means the open space around buildings which is required by the terms of this 
Ordinance. 
35. "Yard, Side" means a space on the same lot with a building, between the side line of the building 
and the side lot line, and extending from the front yard to the rear yard. The "width" of the side 
yard shall be the minimum distance between the side lot line and the side line of the building. See 
“Side Yard, Interior Lot” and “Side Yard, Corner Lot”.
 
 
Chapter 18.08 PROCEDURE FOR APPROVAL OF A SUBDIVISION. 
18.08.010 - Approval Authority. 
A. The Director is the land use authority for all preliminary plat  approvals of single lot subdivisions  that 
do not include: 
1. The creation of a new public or private street or road, and/or 
2. A request to amend or waive certain public improvement requirements found in Chapter 18.14. 
B. The Planning Commission is the land use authority for all other preliminary plat approvals.  
C. In all of the Director’s duties outlined in this Title, the Director is subject to the direction of the Mayor 
at the Mayor’s discretion.  
18.08.020 - Review Procedures, Director to Administer. 
In order to ensure that each subdivision fully complies with the provisions of this Title, the Director or 
designee shall administer formal application and review procedures for subdivisions. An application shall 
not be deemed complete until the full application, fees and all required materials have been submitted to 
Planning and Development Services. The payment of a partial fee and submission of conceptual plans for 
a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete application.  
18.08.030 – Development Review Committee.  
A. The Development Review Committee is the Planning and Development Services staff, in consultation 
with agencies with statutory review and approval authority for engineering, health, fire, and surveying 
reviews and services. Comments from other affected entities, service providers , or other reviewing 
agencies may also be solicited as needed. The Development Review Committee is an extension of the 
Director and serves as the Director’s designee with the following responsibilities: 
1. Establish subdivision application forms, checklists, and standard operating procedures; 
2. Review development applications , including concept plans, subdivisions, commercial site plans , 
and project plans; 
3. Provide recommendations to the Planning Commission and/or Council regarding development 
applications that require their approval; 
4. Review subdivision final plats and construction drawings and approve, approve with conditions , 
or deny final plats and construction drawings; and 
5. Hold preconstruction meetings for approved subdivision plats and other applicable development 
projects. 
18.08.040 – Subdivision Procedure, Generally. 
The applicant shall prepare and submit a subdivision application, including fees, in accordance with this 
Title and Planning and Development Services policy. The applicant may submit a concept plan  prior to 
submitting a subdivision application. While the concept plan is optional except under the circumstances 
provided herein, a preliminary and a final plat are required.  Effective February 1, 2024, in processing 
reviews and submittals, the county shall adhere to the standards for subdivision review cycles, as 
articulated in Utah Code §17-27a-604 .2.   
18.08.050 - Concept Plan. 
A. Except as otherwise stated in this Title, a concept plan review is not a mandatory step, nor is it a land 
use application for purposes of vesting. 
B. The purpose of a concept plan review is to provide a potential applicant with an economical way to 
work with the planning staff and elected officials in reaching a general agreement as to the nature of 
a proposed subdivision project, its impact on the community, and its conformance with the codes, 
ordinances, plans and policies. For the concept plan review, the potential applicant will not need 
detailed architectural or engineering drawings. 
C. An applicant may submit a concept plan if the applicant desires to obtain input from Planning and 
Development Services s taff prior to undertaking the preparation and submission of a complete 
preliminary plat application. 
D. Prior to a c oncept plan review, the Applicant shall submit to the Director or designee a complete 
concept plan, including documents, fees, any items specified under Section 18.10.020, and any other 
matter appropriately required by the Development Review Committee. 
E. When the concept plan is complete and accepted by the Director or designee, the date of acceptance 
will be noted. The Development Review Committee shall, within fifteen (15) business days of the date 
of acceptance, schedule a meeting to review the concept plan and give initial feedback. 
F. Where the applicant owns or controls more territory than they propose to submit for preliminary or 
final approval, or under circumstances where the proposed subdivision is part of a larger project or 
territory which the applicant owns or controls and which includes property in more than one zone, 
the Director may require that a concept plan covering the larger area be submitted. The concept plan 
for the larger area shall show how the immediate development relates to:  
1. Possible development of the remaining territory;  
2. The county’s adopted transportation plans; and  
3. The provision of other public services, utilities and facilities. 
18.08.060 – Preliminary Plat Application. 
A. Application. The applicant shall submit a preliminary plat application to  Planning and Development 
Services, which shall include:  
1. Submission of an approved application form that clearly indicate s the type of application, 
property address, applicant information, and other pertinent information;  
2. Submission of a preliminary p lat and other drawings and documentation conforming to the 
requirements of Section 18.10. 030, technical reports in accordance with Section 18.10.050, 
supplementary materials as required by this Title and mailing labels (if required) for notifications;  
3. Authorization for application submittal from the property owner or property owner’s authorized 
agent; and 
4. All other items on the county’s published list of items comprising a complete preliminary plat  
application. 
B. Completeness Review.  
1. The preliminary plat application shall be carefully reviewed by Planning and Development Services 
to determine whether or not it is complete.  
2. If it is concluded that the preliminary plat application is not complete, the Director or designee  
shall notify the applicant in writing within fourteen (14) days of submission of the application: 
a. That the application is incomplete; and 
b. The specific components of the application deemed insufficient. 
3. At any time during the completeness review process outlined in this subsection, a pre-application 
meeting may be requested by the applicant or Director or designee to discuss the application, 
plans, and anticipated review process. In order to facilitate efficiency of the review process, the 
Director or designee may invite representatives from other reviewing agencies as well as the 
applicant’s design professionals to the meeting. 
C. Complete Application.  
1. When the preliminary plat a pplication is determined to include all the of the required 
documentation, plans, plats, reports and other required submittals, the Director shall provide the 
amount of the fees for the applicant to pay. 
2. When the applicant has paid the required fees, the application is determined complete, and the 
application is accepted by the Director or designee; the date of acceptance will be noted for the 
record in the application file.  
18.08.070 – Preliminary Plat Agency/Development Review Committee Review. 
A. The purpose of a preliminary plat  is to provide a review of a proposed subdivision prior to approval 
by the land use authority. It is intended that this review will help ensure that the plans which are being 
prepared are in accordance with all applicable development codes and ordinances. 
B. The Director or designee shall review , or cause to be reviewed,  the complete preliminary plat 
application as follows: 
1. The Development Review Committee will have no more than fifteen (15) business days for review 
of the preliminary plat and preparation of review comments. 
2. The Director or designee shall review the application materials, plans, plats , and technical 
documents for compliance with county land use ordinances, codes, adopted plans, specifications 
and other technical requirements. As part of this review, the Director or designee may conduct 
one or more on-site reviews, as provided by Utah Code 17-27a-303. 
3. The Director or designee  shall refer the application materials , plans, plats,  and technical 
documents to the Development Review Committee and any other government agency and/or 
affected entity which the D irector deems necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of 
the public and to ensure the project’s compliance with all applicable ordinances, codes, adopted 
plans, specifications, and other technical requirements.  
4. Upon preliminary approval by the Development Review Committee, the Director or designee shall 
schedule the application for review by the land use authority. 
18.08.080 – Preliminary Plat Approval or Disapproval. 
A.  Following a review of the preliminary plat, the land use authority, as designated in Section 18.08.010, 
shall act on the preliminary plat as submitted or modified . The land use authority in answering the 
questions in Subsection B shall refer to the ordinances in effect at the time that the applicant 
submitted a complete preliminary plat application. 
1. Unless the application is for a single-lot subdivision  meeting the requirements of section 
18.08.010(A), the application shall be reviewed by the planning commission at a public meeting. 
B. A proposed subdivision shall comply with the following applicable requirements, as determined by 
the land use authority:  
 1.  The plans, documents and other submission materials (including technical reports where required) 
comply with the published list for a complete application. 
2. The submitted plans, documents and submission materials conform to applicable county 
standards. 
3. The proposed development conform s to county zoning ordinances and subdivision design 
standards. 
4. The combination of natural or manmade conditions , encumbrances, easements , setbacks, 
geometry, or the dimensions of the lot  leaves an adequate buildable area, as dictated by county 
ordinance and standards and lawful agreements, for a reasonably sized main structure.  
5. No natural or manmade conditions exist on or in the vicinity of the site defined in the preliminary 
plat that, without remediation, would render part or all of the property unsuitable for 
development, as dictated by county ordinances or standards. 
6. The preliminary plat provides  for safe and convenient traffic circulation and road access to 
adjacent properties under all weather conditions, as dictated by county ordinances or standards. 
7. The preliminary plat does not impose an undue financial burden upon the county, as dictated by 
county ordinances or standards? 
8. The location and arrangement of the lots, roads, easements , and other elements of the 
subdivision contemplated by the preliminary plat are consistent with the county’s current street 
system and transportation master plan.  The land use authority may consider the transportation  
elements of the general plan.  
9. The preliminary plat recognizes and accommodates the existing natural conditions, as dictated by 
county ordinances or standards. 
10. The public facilities, including public utility systems serving the area defined in the preliminary 
plat, are adequate to serve the proposed development , as dictated by county ordinances or 
standards. 
11. The project contemplated in the preliminary plat conforms to the purposes and intent of this Title 
as stated in Chapter 18.02. 
C. The land use authority may: 
1. Approve the preliminary plat; 
2. Approve the preliminary plat with reasonable conditions intended to ensure compliance with the 
standards of the applicable zone, reviewing agencies, and this Title; 
3. Continue review of the preliminary plat, direct ing that changes be made to the preliminary plat 
so that it conforms with the standards of the applicable zone, reviewing agencies,  and this Title; 
or  
4. Deny the preliminary plat because it does not meet the standards of the applicable zone, 
reviewing agencies, and this Title.  
D. If the plat conforms with the standards  of the applicable zone, reviewing agencies, and this Title and 
has been approved by the culinary water authority  and the sanitary sewer authority, or the local 
health department  where culinary water or sanitary sewer services is not available , the land use 
authority shall approve the preliminary plat. 
E. If the preliminary plat is not approved, the Director or designee shall notify the applicant  in writing 
and give reasons for the denial.  
F. The Director or designee shall issue a preliminary plat approval letter with the conditions of approval 
and a copy of the approved preliminary plat. The receipt of said letter  shall be authorization for the 
applicant to proceed with the preparation of specifications for the minimum improvements required 
in Chapter 18.14 of this Title and with the preparation of the final plat.  
18.08.090 – Submittal of the Final Plat , Engineering Drawings  and Documents to the Development 
Review Committee for Final Plat Approval. 
A. Purpose. The purpose of the final plat of a subdivision is to present an accurate depiction of the layout 
of the subdivision so that it can be properly recorded and then used as a permanent reference for the 
sale of the property included within the subdivision. The purpose of the final plat review is to ensure 
that the plat and the construction plans for the required improvements meet the applicable standards 
and specifications. 
B. A pplication.  
1. The applicant shall submit a final plat  application to Planning and Development Services , which 
shall include:  
a. Submission of an application form, as designed by the Director or designee to clearly indicate 
the type of application, property address, applicant information, and other pertinent 
information;  
b. Submission of a final plat and other drawings and documentation conforming to the 
requirements of Section 18.1 0.040, technical reports in accordance with Section 18.10.050, 
engineered construction plans for the improvements required in Chapter 18.14 , and 
supplementary materials as may be required by this Title;  
c. Authorization for application submittal from the property owner or the property owner’s 
authorized agent; and 
d. All other items on the county’s published list of items comprising a complete final plat 
application. 
2. Completeness Review.  
a. The final plat application shall be carefully reviewed by Planning and Development Services 
to determine whether or not it is complete.  
b. If it is concluded that the final plat application is not complete, the Director or designee shall 
notify the applicant in writing within fourteen (14) days of submission of the application: 
i. That the application is incomplete; and 
ii. The specific components of the application deemed insufficient. 
c. After notice is given, an incomplete application file automatically closes after sixty (60) days 
if the necessary components to complete the application have not been submitted.  
d. At any time during the completeness review  process outlined in this subsection, a pre-
application meeting may be requested by the applicant or Director or designee to discuss the 
application, plans, and anticipated review process. In order to facilitate efficiency of the 
review process, the Director or designee may invite representatives from other reviewing 
agencies as well as the applicant’s design professionals to the meeting. 
3. Complete Application.  
a. When the final plat  application is determined to include all the of the required 
documentation, plans, plats, reports and other required submittals, the Director or designee 
shall provide the amount of the fees for the applicant to pay. 
b. When the applicant has paid the required fees, the application submittal is complete, and the 
application is deemed complete and is accepted by the Director or designee , t he date of 
acceptance shall be noted for the record.  
C. Technical Review of the Final Plat and Construction Documents. The Director or designee shall review 
or cause to be reviewed, the complete final plat application and construction documents as follows: 
1. For every submittal, the Development Review Committee will have no more than twenty(20) 
working days for review of plat and/or construction plans and preparation of review comments. 
2. The Director or designee shall review the application materials  identified in subsection (B)(1) for 
compliance with county  land use ordinances, codes, adopted plans , specifications, and other 
technical requirements in effect at the time that the applicant submitted a complete final plat 
application. As part of this review, the Director or designee may conduct one or more on-site 
reviews, as provided by Utah Code §17-27a-303. 
3. The Director or designee shall refer the application materials identified in subsection (B)(1) to the 
Development Review Committee and any other government agency and/or affected entity which 
the Director deems necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public and to 
ensure the project's compliance with all applicable design standards and specifications, 
ordinances, codes, adopted plans, specifications, and other technical requirements.  
4. Multiple reviews and submittals may be required based on the accuracy of the plat, drawings and 
plans, consistency with the applicable county land use ordinances and codes, state and federal 
law, and adherence to the requirements of the adopted plans and specifications and other 
technical requirements. Effective February 1, 2024, in processing reviews and submittals, the 
county and applicant will adhere to the standards for subdivision review, as articulated in  Utah 
Code §17-27a-604.2.  
5. Upon a determination that the application is consistent with applicable standards and conditions, 
the Development Review Committee shall provide a written letter of approval to the applicant. 
6. If an applicant is proposing substantial changes to the preliminary plat, the applicant shall be 
referred to the land use authority that approved the preliminary plat  for final approval. 
Substantial changes include an increase in the number of proposed lots, changes to the location 
and/or configuration of streets including stub streets, and/or other changes reasonably deemed 
substantial by the Development Review Committee. 
7. If an applicant contests any requirements imposed by the Development Review Committee  as 
part of the final plat approval, the applicant may appeal the conditions of approval to the land use 
hearing officer in accordance with section 19.20.030. 
18.08.100 - Combined Applications. 
An applicant may submit an application for approval of a preliminary plat and a final plat simultaneously  
if the subdivision does not include multiple phases . Such a pplication shall be on a form provided by 
Planning and Development Services . The combination application  shall contain both a preliminary plat 
and a final plat that meet all requirements of this Title and all county, state, and federal regulations prior 
to approval by the land use authority . All other agency reviews shall also be conducted and approved in 
accordance with this Title. 
18.08.110 – Recording the Final Plat. 
A. Prior to recording the final plat, the applicant shall: 
1. Pay any remaining fees; and 
2. Provide Planning and Development Services with a tax clearance indicating that all taxes, interest, 
and penalties owing on the land have been paid; and 
a. Complete all required improvements and post a durability bond  in accordance with Chapter 
18.16; to be considered complete, the required improvements must be inspected by, and 
receive approval and acceptance from, the County Engineering Division; or 
b. Post a performance guarantee and a durability bond in accordance with Chapter 18.16 and in 
an amount determined by the County Engineering Division. 
B. The final plat must include all  required approval signatures , including Planning  Commission 
representative, Director, health department, district attorney, M ayor or designees , and any other 
signatory required by law. 
C. Make an appointment with Planning and Development Services staff to record the final plat in the Salt 
Lake County Recorder’s Office.  
18.08.120 - As Built Drawings. 
Prior to the final acceptance of the required improvements, the applicant / developer shall provide the 
County Engineering Division a complete and accurate set of as-built drawings in an electronic format 
acceptable to the County Engineering Division.  
 
Chapter 18.10 DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS. 
18.10.010 – Document Submittal Requirements. 
All subdivision applications shall include, at a minimum, the documents identified in the published list of 
items for a complete application provided by Planning and Development Services. 
18.10.020 - Concept Plan Specifications. 
A. As a minimum, the following information and materials should be provided as a part of the concept 
plan package: 
1. An accurate and up-to-date preliminary survey map of the property proposed for subdivision; 
2. A vicinity map at a scale of 1:600 showing the property in relation to the general area of the 
jurisdictional limits in which it is located; 
3. A schematic plat drawn clearly and accurately by a design professional at a scale appropriate for 
the nature of the project, to include: 
a. Scale, north arrow, and date of preparation; 
b. Approximate topography; 
c. All primary and secondary conservation areas; 
d. Existing man-made features on the property; 
e. Proposed streets, lots, public areas, open spaces, greenbelts, buffers, amenity areas, and 
other significant proposed improvements; 
f. Zoning setbacks, and the approximate area of each lot; 
g. Any other features that will be important in the design and development of the project; and 
h. Any off-site improvements that may be needed to properly develop the property. 
4. A Stormwater Management Concept Plan; 
5. Typical floor plans and elevations , if any,  of the structures  that are planned for the proposed 
subdivision; and 
6. A concept plat review fee. 
18.10.030 - Preliminary Plat Required Information. 
A. The preliminary plat application shall contain the information specified in this Section and any other 
items on the published list for a complete application,  and shall comply with the following 
requirements:  
1. Description and Delineation. In a title block located in the lower right-hand corner of the plat, the 
following shall appear:  
a. The proposed name of the subdivision, which name must be approved by Planning and 
Development Services;  
b. The location of the subdivision, including:  
i. Address, including Salt Lake County; 
ii. Section, township and range, base and meridian; and 
iii. When applicable, the name and phase of the recorded subdivision being amended;  
c. The names and addresses of the owner, the applicant, if different than the owner, and of the 
designer of the subdivision; and 
d. The date of preparation, scale (no less than one inch to equal one hundred feet) and the north 
point.  
B. Existing Conditions. The preliminary plat shall show:  
1. The location and elevation of project benchmark(s) referenced to published Salt Lake County 
Surveyor datum and its spatial relationship to existing Public Land Survey System monuments or 
their accessories;  
2. The boundary lines of the proposed subdivision indicated by a solid heavy line and the total 
approximate acreage encompassed thereby;  
3. All property under the control of the subdivider, even if only a portion is being subdivided. Where 
the plat submitted covers only a part of the subdivider's tract, a sketch of the prospective street 
system of the unplatted parts of the subdivider's land shall be submitted, and the street system 
of the part submi tted shall be considered in the light of existing street system, general street 
plans, other county studies and adopted transportation plans; 
4. The location, width, names, and jurisdiction of all existing streets within two hundred feet (200’) 
of the subdivision and of all prior platted streets or other public ways, railroad and utility rights -
of-way, parks and other public open spaces, permanent buildings and structures, houses or 
permanent easements , section, and municipal  and service district  boundaries, within and 
adjacent to the tract;  
5. The location of all wells, proposed, active , and abandoned, and of all reservoirs within the tract 
and to a distance of at least one hundred feet (100’) beyond the tract boundaries;  
6. Existing sewers, water mains, culverts or other underground facilities within the tract and to a 
distance of at least one hundred feet (100’) beyond the tract boundaries, indicating pipe sizes, 
grades, manholes, elevations and exact locations;  
7. Existing and proposed realignment of ditches, canals, natural drainage channels, and open 
waterways;  
8. Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of subdivided and unsubdivided land, showing ownership and 
parcel identification number;  
9. Contour at vertical intervals of not more than two feet (2’). Highwater levels of all watercourses, 
if any, shall be indicated in the same datum for contour elevations;  
10. Nearest installed fire hydrants on and within five hundred feet (500’) of the proposed subdivision; 
and 
11. Accurate locations of all natural features such as lakes, ponds, streams, creeks, State Waters, 
wetlands, floodplain boundaries, riparian buffers, Wildlife and Priority Habitats (as identified by 
the Department of Natural Resources), and other significant features, and notations designating 
any federal, state, or local regulatory agency permits or approvals that are or may be required 
relative to development of or around such features. 
C. Properties Located in the Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone. In addition to the preceding, the 
preliminary plat for subdivision of a property located in the foothills and canyons overlay zone shall 
show:   
1. A graphic depiction of existing slope characteristics of the property, illustrating the following:   
a. Areas with slopes less than thirty percent, 
b. Areas with slopes thirty to forty percent, 
c. Areas with slopes forty to fifty percent, and 
d. Areas with slopes greater than fifty percent; 
2. Identified natural hazards, including but not limited to, areas potentially subject to avalanche, 
liquefaction, and/or surface fault rupture; 
3. Water courses, natural drainage channels, storm water runoff channels, gullies, stream beds, 
wetlands, etc. 
D. Proposed Subdivision Plans. The subdivision plans shall include:  
1. The layout of streets, showing location, widths and other dimensions of (designated by actual or 
proposed names and numbers) proposed streets, crosswalks, alleys and easements;  
2. The layout, numbers, and typical dimensions of lots, and in areas subject to foothills and canyons 
overlay zone provisions, designation of buildable areas on individual lots; 
3. Parcels of land intended to be dedicated or temporarily reserved for public use or set aside for 
use of property owners in the subdivision;  
4. Building setback lines, including showing dimensions where required by the land use authority;  
5. Typical street cross sections.  The required street cross sections may be submitted as a separate 
sheet or as part of the construction plans. Grade sheets may be required by the land use authority 
or other reviewing agency; and 
6. A tentative plan or method by which the applicant  proposes to handle stormwater drainage for 
the subdivision.  
E. Phasing.  
1. Where an applicant proposes to submit a final plat containing less territory than shown on the 
preliminary plat, indicating a phased development plan, the preliminary plat shall identify each of 
the proposed phases. Any such final plat phasing scheme shall occur at logical "break points" in 
the project and provide access and utility services which will be adequate in the event that 
subsequent phases do not occur. The phasing scheme shall also incorporate the provisions of 
Chapter 18.12 of this Title. 
2. A phase may not include two or more non-contiguous areas on the same plat. 
3. No phasing scheme may have the effect of leaving a residual lot, non-conforming parcel , or 
previously divided land for which the required subdivision improvements have not been 
previously constructed. For purposes of this Title, a "residual lot" shall be defined as a zoning lot, 
created by the proposed subdivision, but which is not shown as a lot on the final plat of the 
subdivision project or as future development. A future development parcel must be developable 
into multiple lots meeting the area standards for the applicable zone. 
F. The applicant shall identif y to the land use authority any existing or necessary agreements with 
adjacent property owners relative to the subdivision development prior to its approval of the  plat. 
These agreements may  include those relative to drainage, easements, protection strips and 
improvement bonds.  
18.10.040 - Final Plat Required Information. 
The final plat shall be prepared by a professional land surveyor licensed in Utah on a sheet of approved 
reproducible Mylar and made with approved waterproof black ink . The plat shall be oriented so that the 
top of the sheet is either north or east, whichever accommodates the drawing best. All text shall be a 
minimum of one-tenth inch in size. The plat shall contain all information required on the preliminary plat 
with the exception of contours and construction information, utilities (except existing and proposed fire 
hydrants), structures and fences (unless the fences are utilized as called monuments). 
A. Description and Delineation. The final plat shall show:  
1. The approved name of the subdivision;  
2. North arrow and graphic scale. The minimum scale is 1”=100’; 
3. A legend defining all lines and symbols used on the plat; 
4. Lot addresses, and approved street names and numbers; 
5. The plat drawing shall agree with the boundary description; 
6. Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles , and curves used to describe 
boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public use , and other important 
features. Boundaries, lots, and streets shown as solid lines, with outside subdivision boundary 
lines indicated as a heavier, more substantial line than lot  and street lines. Easements shown as 
dashed lines; 
7. The lengths of lot lines and boundary lines shown as decimals of a foot with a precision of 0.00’; 
Bearings and angles will be shown as Deg/Min/Sec with a precision of 0°00’00”. Additional 
precision may be necessary to meet closure requirements; 
8. Bearings and distance to provide a mathematical closure of 0.01’ on exterior subdivision boundary 
and 0.02’ or less, on all lots and centerline of streets; 
9. Basis of bearing between two or more public land survey monuments or between identified 
monuments in a recorded subdivision or street dedication plat; 
10. Survey ties to public land survey monuments, and, where applicable, to identified monuments in a 
recorded subdivision or street dedication plat, showing measure and record, if different; 
11. T he accurate location of all survey monuments and fire hydrants to be installed shown by the 
appropriate symbol. All United States, state, county or other official benchmarks , survey 
monuments, or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property shall be preserved in precise 
position and in compliance with Utah Code §17-23-14 and Salt Lake County Ordinance, Chapter 
14.17; 
12. The clearly labeled point of beginning; 
13. The sum of the lot line distances along the exterior of the plat shall equal the subdivision boundary 
distance; 
14. Existing and proposed streets within two-hundred feet (200’) of the proposed subdivision boundary. 
Dimension street width and identified street ownership; 
15. Recording information of adjoining subdivisions. Ownership with parcel identification numbers of 
adjoining lots and parcels; 
16. The dimensioned relationship between existing and proposed utility easements with proposed lot 
lines. Include recording reference(s) of existing easements and provide a utility approval line for 
proposed easements; 
17. All curve data, including radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and length 
of all arcs, identified at correct location or in a curve table; 
18. Centerline control on existing streets, matching the County’s record data. New street monuments 
will be installed per the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s monument permitting process as specified in 
Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 2001, Chapter 14.17; 
19. The dedication to the public of all streets and highways included in the proposed subdivision. 
Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property controlled by a public agent or utility 
company, approval for the location, improvement, and maintenance of such streets shall be 
obtained from the public agency or utility company and entered on the final plat in a form 
approved by the county attorney; 
20. Subdivision monuments shall be installed prior to the improvement bond release by the 
applicant's engineer or land surveyor at such points designated on the final plat as approved by 
Planning and Development Services . Standard precast monuments, rings , and lids shall be 
installed through the Salt Lake County Surveyor monument permitting process (Salt Lake County 
Code of Ordinances, 2001, Chapter 14.17);  
21. Physical markers shall be placed at each outside boundary corner in accordance with state 
statutes and the Filing Professional Surveys chapter of this Title; and shall be verified to be in their 
correct location(s) according to the plat; 
22. Physical markers shall be placed at each lot corner in accordance with state statutes and the Filing 
Professional Surveys chapter of this Title; and 
23. Accurate outlines and legal descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use, 
with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area to be reserved by deed or covenant for 
common uses of all property owners. 
B. Boundary Description. The boundary description shall include: 
1. A caption with reference to current vesting deed(s), location by Quarter Section, Township & 
Range, Base & Meridian, and if applicable, existing lot(s) and subdivision(s); 
2. A survey tie to an existing Public Land Survey monument, or a recognized street or subdivision 
monument; 
3. All necessary bearings, distances and curve data to complete the description and provide a 
mathematical closure of 0.01’ (one hundredth) of a foot or less; 
4. Narrative (bound) calls to and along adjoining subdivisions, parcels, streets, and rights of way as 
necessary to define the intent of the description; 
5. Recording reference to any additional easements required for property access where applicable ; 
and 
6. Total development area in square feet (0.00) and acres (0.000). 
C. Standard Forms for the Following. The county hereby adopts the template on file with the Salt Lake 
County Surveyor, establishing the expected format of the final plat, which at a minimum requires:  
1. A Professional Land Surveyor’s certificate of survey;  
2. The owner's certificate of dedication;  
3. A notary public's acknowledgement;  
4. The land use authority's certificate of approval;  
5. The health department's certificate of approval;  
6. Planning and Development Service’s certificate of approval;  
7. The county attorney's certificate of approval;  
8. The county mayor’s certificate of approval;  
9. The County Surveyor’s record of survey acknowledgment block; and 
10. A one and one-half by five-inch (1.5” x 5”) space in the lower right-hand corner of the drawing for 
the Salt Lake County Recorder's use.  
D. The final plat may require written acknowledgment of any legal documents recorded at the Salt Lake 
County Recorder’s Office completed as part of the approval process for the subdivision. The 
acknowledgment shall include the recorded number of the document after it has been recorded at 
the Salt Lake County recorder’s office. 
E. To ensure that all encumbrances are depicted on the plat and that all owners have signed the plat, 
the applicant shall provide a title report that is prepared no sooner than 60 days prior to the date that 
the applicant submits the final plat for signature by county offices. 
18.10.050 – Technical Reports Required. 
A. The following technical reports are required for all subdivisions : 
1. Soils Report . The report shall include, but is not limited to, information with respect to slope 
analysis, general soils classification, suitability for development, erosion potential, any 
recommendations for proposed methods of mitigating any constraints determined to be present 
as part of the development plan, any adverse impact on the natural environment, and anything 
else required by the standards of reviewing agencies. 
2. S
tormwater, Grading and Drainage Plan: The plan shall include, but is not limited to, information 
on groundwater levels, identification and mapping of drainage channels and systems, floodplains, 
existing details and contours where modification of terrain is proposed, the direction of proposed 
drainage flow, proposed plans and the location of all surface and subsurface drainage devices to 
be constructed as part of the proposed development, erosion control measures during the course 
of construction, identification of any grading and drainage prob lems such as the alteration of 
natural drainage patterns and any other problems of the proposed development, a plan to 
mitigate or eliminate such problems , any adverse impact on the natural environment , and 
anything else required by the standards of reviewing agencies. 
B. The following technical reports are required for subdivision applications to the extent required by 
applicable regulations: 
1.  Geotechnical and Geology Report (Global a nd Site Specific): The filing and contents of such 
reports shall be in accordance with Salt Lake County Code chapter 19.75.   
2. Na tural Conditions ,  Vegetation Analysis, and Preservation Plan: This report and plan shall include 
(i) a survey of existing trees, large shrubs , and ground covers ;(ii) a plan for the proposed 
revegetation of the site, detailing existing vegetation to be preserved, new vegetation to be 
planted, and any modifications to existing vegetation ; and (iii)a discussion of  any vegetation 
problems and recommendations as how to mitigate or eliminate such problems and avoid 
potential adverse impact on the natural environment. 
3. Fir
e Protection Report : This report shall include, but not be limited to, identification of potential 
fire hazards, mitigation measures, access for fire protection equipment , and proposed fire flow 
capability. 
C. The scope and content of these required technical reports and plans shall be in accordance with 
adopted standards of the reviewing agencies, and shall be submitted with the preliminary or final plat 
application as determined by the applicable reviewing agency. The County  Engineering Division may 
waive the necessity for submitting one or more of the technical reports or any elements of a report 
where, in its opinion, conditions associated with the proposed development do not require 
consideration of the subj ect matter covered  by the waived report. Also, where the lot is contained 
within an approved subdivision and the technical reports previously submitted as part of the 
subdivision approval process are sufficient in scope and detail to adequately address the issues 
required under this Chapter, this requirement may be waived. 
18.10.060 - Final approval, GIS Data Required. 
A. Prior to the final approval and the issuance of any permit associated with a subdivision or 
development plan, or in the case of a single lot development or a single building permit, the applicant 
shall provide to Planning and Development Services the GIS data corresponding to the approved plans 
for all improvements required by C hapter 18.14. Any changes during construction will require 
additional GIS data to be submitted with the final approved as -built drawings. All GIS data shall be 
submitted as follows:  
1. All GIS data shall be submitted in conformance with County Policy 1013, "Standards for 
Geographic Information System" and the "Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering GIS 
Standards," as approved by the Salt Lake County GIS Steering Committee and on file with Salt Lake 
County Engineering Division. The county Public Works Director or designee reserves the right to 
reject any GIS data that is provided and is not in compliance with the above standards.  
a. This shall be done at the developer or owner's expense. If a developer or owner does not 
provide the required GIS data, the county may complete the work o n the developer or 
owner's behalf and the developer or owner shall pay to the county the cost of completing the 
work at the hourly rate approved by the council for such work. If the developer or owner fails 
to pay for such work, the county may pursue legal action to recover these costs.  
b. A subdivision, development plan, or single lot development that  costs less than $10,000 to 
develop and construct, as estimated by the County Engineering Division, is exempt from the 
GIS requirements of this Chapter.  
B. GIS data will be required for the following improvements:  
1. Roadway system : Regulatory signs, street signs, centerlines , curb and gutter, sidewalks, 
crosswalks, ADA ramps, striping, road width,  road monuments, streetlights, and signals (including 
conduit and electrical boxes for streetlights and signals).  
2. S torm drain system: Catch basins, manholes, detention basin inlets and outlets, culverts, 
detention basin area, stormwater quality BMPs, and pipes.  
 
Chapter 18.12 DESIGN STANDARDS 
18.12.010 - Departmental Standards. 
A. Standards for design, construction specifications , and inspection of street improvements, curbs, 
gutters, sidewalks, storm drainage , and flood control facilities shall be prepared by the County  
Engineering and Flood Control  Divisions ; standards for water distribution and sewage disposal 
facilities shall be prepared by the health department; and standards for fire hydrants shall be prepared 
by the local fire authority. All applicants shall comply with the standards established by such authority 
and departments and agencies of the county.  
B. Subject to the provisions of Utah State Code § 17-27a-507, no adopted design or construction 
standards shall have the effect of requiring the installation of pavement on a residential roadway at a 
width in excess of thirty-two feet (32’). 
18.12.020 - Conformance with Design Standards. 
The design of the preliminary and final plats of the subdivision in relation to streets, blocks, lots, open 
spaces, and other design factors shall conform  with the standards contained herein.   These d esign 
standards shall be approved by the legislative body.  
18.12.030 - Streets and Roads, General Criteria.  
A.  Width. The width of the hard surfacing and the location and type of other required street 
improvements shall be as set forth on the applicable street cross section standard.  
B. R elationship to Adjacent Streets. The proposed street system shall properly align and be compatible 
with adjacent streets. Offset intersections shall be avoided whenever possible, and any intersecting   
street alignment with an offset of more than fifteen feet (15') shall be prohibited.  The distance 
between street intersections shall not be less than one hundred fifty feet (150’) for local streets  and 
not less than six hundred feet (600’) for arterial or collector streets.  This provision shall not apply to 
existing streets unless the development includes realignment of existing streets. 
C. Street Names. New street names may not duplicate those already existing within Salt Lake County. A 
street that is obviously a continuation of another  street already in existence should bear the same 
name. Before the street is named, the proposed name must be submitted to and approved by 
Planning and Development Services. 
D.   A ccess to Adjacent Properties. In order to facilitate the development of an adequate and convenient 
circulation system within the county and to provide access for the logical development of adjacent 
vacant properties, the county may, as a condition of approval, require the subdivision plan to include 
one or more temporary dead end streets (stub streets) which extend to the boundary of the 
subdivision.  
1. All such stub streets shall be fully developed to the boundary of the subdivision.  
2. The requirement for a stub street may be waived the Director when: 
a. There is no adjacent, developable parcel and the lack of a stub street will not result in a 
property that is landlocked; 
b. The topography between the subject parcel or parcels and the neighboring parcel makes a 
stub street infeasible and alternative access exists; or 
c. The neighboring parcel has an existing building, buildings or other substantial improvements 
that preclude any reasonable alignment of a future street. 
3.  Any plan for the subsequent development of the adjacent property shall provide for the 
continuation of any such stub street.  The requirement to connect to an existing stub street may 
be waived by the Director if: 
a.    The connecting to the existing stub street constrains any reasonable development of the site; 
or 
b.    The property has subsequently been rezoned to allow for land uses that are not compatible 
with the land uses associated with the development that resulted from the creation of the 
stub street.  In such circumstances, pedestrian connections on the stub street should still be 
extended into the adjacent property to retain pedestrian access.  However, the Director may 
waive this requirement when the extension of the pedestrian facility will result in pedestrian 
access between a residential zone and a heavy industrial zone, or if the developer can 
demonstrate that the proposed uses associated with the development will not be compatible 
with safe and secure pedestrian connections between the stub street and adjacent public 
roads. 
E.   Temporary Dead End (Stub Streets) . Where a final plat includes a dead end stub street which is 
intended to be continued into adjacent property in the future and which serves as the primary access 
for one or more adjacent lots, said final plat shall make provision for temporarily accommodat ing 
vehicular movement and the extension of utility services by designating temporary cul -de-sacs, 
turnaround areas, travel easements connecting the end of the stub street with other streets in the 
vicinity or such other temporary measure as may be approved by the land use authority. Such 
temporary facilities required pursuant to this provision shall remain until such time as the street has 
been extended into the adjacent property and the improvements accepted by the county. 
F. Cul-De-Sacs. Cul-de-sacs shall be discouraged. 
1. Cul-de-sacs may be appropriate in cases where the possibility of future adjacent development 
does not exist due to topography or existing development, where an additional through street 
would be unnecessary, where a road cannot be extended through the property to connect to 
another street elsewhere, where development has occurred on at least three (3) sides of the 
surrounding property, or where other special circumstances exist, as determined appropriate by 
the land use authority  after receiving a recommendation for the same from the County 
Engineering Division in accordance with industry best practices. When permitted, permanent cul-
de-sacs shall be designed in accordance with adopted standard drawings, each cul -de-sac stem 
shall meet the standard street requirement, including right-of-way, pavement width, gutter, curb, 
and sidewalk within residential subdivisions. The maximum length of a cul -de-sac street shall be 
five hundred feet ( 500') from the center of the cul -de-sac to the centerline of the intersecting 
street.  
2. The land use authority  may require a sidewalk connection through a cul -de-sac to allow for 
pedestrian connectivity to existing or future adjacent development and/or public streets. 
G. Vehicle Access. Subdivision projects of twenty (20) lots or more shall provide at least two (2) points 
of vehicular access.  
18.12.040 - Blocks. 
A. Length. Blocks shall not exceed six hundred (660’) feet in length.  
B. Width. Blocks shall be wide enough to adequately accommodate two tiers of lots  except as provided 
for herein.  
C. Wa lkways.   Walkways through the block to a point designated by the Planning Commission  may be 
required by the Planning Commission (after a recommendation from the Director). Such walkways 
shall be a minimum of six feet in (6’) width. The subdivider shall surface the full width of the walkway 
with a paved surface, install a solid vinyl fence or its equal four feet (4’) high on each side and the full 
length of each walkway and provide, in accordance with the standards, rules and regulations, barriers 
at each walkway entrance to prevent the use of the walkway, by any motor vehicle or by any other 
nonmotorized vehicle wider than four feet  (4’).  A walkway shall be maintained by the owner of the 
streets or improvements connected by the walkway. 
D. C ommercial  and Industrial  Block Design. Blocks intended for business or industrial use shall be 
designed specifically for such purposes with adequate space set aside for off -street parking and 
delivery facilities.  
18.12.050 - Lots. 
A. Design. The lot arrangement and design shall be such that lots will provide satisfactory and desirable 
sites for buildings and be properly designed according to topography, the character of surrounding 
development, and to existing requirements. Lots may not contain peculiarly shaped elongations solely 
to provide necessary square footage which would be unusable for normal purposes. 
B. Zoning Conformity. All lots shown on the preliminary and final plats shall conform to the minimum 
requirements of the zone in which the subdivision is located, and to the minimum requirements of 
the health department for water supply and sewage disposal. Lots created as part of a n approved 
planned unit development, or subject to a development agreement are subject to the standards set 
forth in that approval or document. 
C. F rontage.   
 1.   Each lot in a subdivision shall abut upon and have access to a street which is: 
a.   Dedicated to the county by the subdivision plat; 
b.   An existing publicly dedicated street; 
c. An existing public street which has become public by right of use and which is more than 
twenty-six (26’) feet wide, measuring the travel surface of the street; 
d.   An existing private street that has been approved by the county; or 
e.   Have an approved access via private right of way to a public street shown on the plan and 
approved under the criteria outlined in Subsection 2 of this Section. 
2.   The county may approve a request for a private street that complies with the following criteria:  
a.   The street must be part of a planned unit development (P UD), or planned community where 
the county and the developer have entered into a development agreement; 
b.   Private streets will only be allowed for streets that have no public interest for traffic circulation 
and connectivity; 
c.   Unless otherwise authorized by the Mayor pursuant to Salt Lake County Code section 
14.12.150, private streets shall conform to adopted street cross sections and shall in no case 
be less than twenty feet (20') in width.   
d.   The maximum length of a dead-end private street shall may not exceed five hundred feet 
(500'); 
e.    A note on the plat shall be included indicating that the County has no responsibility to improve 
or maintain the private streets contained within, or private streets providing access to, the 
property described in the plat, nor does the county have responsibility for any of the 
infrastructure associated with the private streets such as sidewalks, drainage facilities, 
streetlights, curbs, and/or landscaping; and 
f.   The applicant shall provide and record a maintenance plan outlining how the private streets 
will be maintained. 
D. Corner Lots. Corner lots shall include the minimum lot width along each of the fronting streets, as 
measured at the front setback line. Corner lots shall have  an additional ten feet (10') of  width along 
one of the frontages to accommodate the additional setback requirements.  
E. D ouble Fronting Lots. 
1.  Single-family or duplex double frontage lots shall be prohibit ed, except where they may be 
essential to provide separation of single -family or duplex residential development from  fronting 
on collector or arterial streets, or to overcome a specific disadvantage or hardship imposed by 
topography or other factors. Such double frontage lots allowed within the county  shall be 
constructed to the adopted engineering design standards. 
2.  Where lots have double frontage and are not screened or are not provided access directly onto 
an arterial street, building setback lines shall be established for each street side. 
3.  Lots in single-family or duplex residential subdivisions and lots measuring less than one hundred 
feet (100’) wide and located within multifamily residential subdivisions may abut a street on both 
the front and rear boundaries, but only under the following conditions: 
a.  One lot boundary must abut a collector street, arterial street, or freeway; 
b.  N o access to the abutting collector street, arterial street or freeway is allowed. The Planning 
Commission may require a reservation, easement , or other condition of approval to ensure 
that no right of access is given; and 
c.  The Planning Commission may require that a parkway at the rear of a double frontage lot be 
landscaped, or other aesthetic treatment be provided by the applicant , subject to the 
approval of the land use authority  to provide a visual and physical separation between the 
development and the street. 
d. An existing private street does not preclude development of a double-fronting lot. 
F. Angle of Lot Lines. Side lot lines shall be approximately at right angles (90°) or radial to the street line 
except where topographic or other conditions make it advisable to have side lot lines at sharper 
angles.  
G. M ultiple Ownership of Lots . Where the land covered by a subdivision includes two (2) or more parcels 
in separate ownership and the lot arrangement is such that a property ownership line divides one or 
more lots, the subdivision shall be considered as a joint project. 
H.    Common Area Parcels.  The land use authority may approve common area parcels within the boundary 
of a subdivision that are to be maintained by an association and owned by the lot owners in common 
pursuant to the common areas section of the County Land Use, Development, and Management Act. 
Parcels to be owned in common by the property owners within a subdivision may vary from the 
minimum width and area requirements for lots in the underlying zone. Common area parcels shall be 
labeled as “Common Area Parcel.” Subdivisions with multiple common areas shall distinguish between 
common areas with a letter label (such as “Common Area Parcel A,” “Common Area Parcel B,” etc.). 
18.12.060 - Remnant Parcels and Nuisance Strips. 
A. No subdivision or platting of a lot may create a nuisance strip, residual lot, or remnant parcel of 
property less than the minimum lot area or width for the zone in which it is located.  
B. If a remnant parcel is proposed, a phasing plan shall  be submitted demonstrating how the remnant 
parcel can be developed in the future.  
C. Remnant land not included in the proposed subdivision or platting of a lot and not subject to 
subsection (B) may  be deeded to adjacent property  owners, with the deed or other appropriate 
instrument being recorded at the same time as the subdivision or recording of a plat.  The transfer or 
conveyance of such remnant land  may not result in additional parcels being created in or outside of 
the proposed subdivision or plat boundary. 
D.  No lot may contain a feature intended to deny frontage to another parcel. 
E. Exceptions. 
1. The land use authority may approve common area parcels pursuant to section 18.12.050(H). 
Common area parcels adjacent to the outer boundary of a subdivision may later be conveyed to 
an adjoining property owner to combine it with the adjoining property as set forth in Utah Code. 
18.12.070 – Flag Lots  
A. In order to subdivide an existing lot or parcel so as to create two or more separate lots or parcels 
(the base lot(s) adjacent to the street and a flag lot(s) to their rear), sufficient land area must be 
available to maintain: 
1. For the base lot(s), compliance with the required area and width requirements of the zone in 
which the properties are situated, and 
2. For flag lot(s) less than one half acre in size: 
a. One and one half times the area requirements for the zone in which the properties are 
situated if ownership of the land providing access to the flag lot(s) is retained by or 
conveyed to the owner of those lots, or 
b. One and one half times the area requirements for the zone in which the properties are 
situated minus the land area included in the access easement across the base lot(s). 
3. For flag lot(s) in zones that require a minimum lot area of one half acre in size or larger: 
a. Compliance with the required area and width requirements of the zone in which the 
properties are situated, exclusive of the land area encumbered for access purposes to the 
flag lot(s), whether by ownership or perpetual easement. 
B. Access to a flag lot or lots shall be provided in the following manner: 
1. Ownership of the land area connecting the flag lot(s) to the street by the person(s) or entities 
that own the balance of the land area included in the flag lot(s), or 
2. Retention of ownership of the land area connecting the flag lot(s) to the street by the owner of 
the base lot(s) fronting on the street, but only if conveyance of that land area would render the 
base lot(s) substandard with regards to lot width or lot area requirements applicable to the 
zone in which the properties are situated. If so retained, access to the flag lot(s) shall be 
provided through conveyance and recordation of a perpetual access easement for each lot, 
together with cross maintenance and liabi lity agreements addressing the rights and 
responsibilities of the owners of the base lot(s) and the flag lot(s). 
3. In a residential or agricultural zone, no more than one flag lot may use a single access and no 
more than one access can be created across a base lot. 
C. Access to a flag lot(s), whether by ownership of the land area across which such access is provided or 
through recordation of a perpetual access easement across the base lot(s), must be of uniform width 
from the flag lot to the intersection with the street right-of-way or easement upon which the base 
lot fronts in accordance with the following: 
1. On properties where the length of the access connection from the flag lot(s) to the public street 
right-of-way or easement is less than one hundred and  thirty feet, the width of that connection 
must be no less than twenty feet unless a lesser width for improvements to the travel way is 
authorized for access purposes by the County Transportation Engineer and the Fire Authority. 
2. On properties where the length of the access connection from the flag lot(s) to the public street 
right-of-way or easement is more than one hundred and  thirty feet, the width of that 
connection must be no less than twenty-five feet unless a lesser width for improvements to the 
travel way is authorized for access purposes by the County Transportation Engineer and the Fire 
Authority. 
3. A landscaping, irrigation, and fencing plan in compliance with section 19.76.295 C (5) shall be 
submitted to create a buffer between the driveway and adjoining properties to mitigate the 
negative impacts of the access. 
D.    In residential and agricultural zones, flag lots are intended to be used only for infill development. No 
subdivision, concept plan, preliminary plat, or final plat with 3 or more lots may include a flag lot or 
lots. 
 
 
Chapter 18.14 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS. 
18.14.010 - Certification of Improvements. 
No final plat of a subdivision of land may  be recorded without receiving a statement signed by P lanning 
and Development Services certifying that the improvements described in the applicant 's plans and 
specifications have been completed  or that an adequate performance bond has been submitted for the 
required improvements as allowed under Chapter 18.16. The certification document is to certify that the 
required improvements meet the minimum requirements of all ordinances of the county  and that they 
comply wit h the standards and requirements of the Health Department , Planning and Development 
Services, the Planning Commission , the Fire Authority serving the area , and other applicable county 
agencies.  
18.14.020 - Storm Sewers. 
Storm sewers shall be constructed throughout the entire subdivision to carry off water from all inlets and 
catch basins and shall be connected to an adequate outfall. A stormwater drainage system subject to the 
approval of Planning and Development Services shall be provided and shall be separate and independent 
of the sanitary sewer system. The final plans for the drainage system shall be prepared by a licensed 
engineer.  The licensed engineer cannot be employed by  the County or the Greater Salt Lake Municipal 
Services District.  
18.14.030 - Public Sanitary Sewer. 
All subdivisions shall comply with Salt Lake County Health Department Regulation 13. 
18.14.040 - Storm Drainage. 
No ditch or canal may be approved as suitable for the use of storm drainage water without the written 
permission of the appropriate ditch or canal company or of the water users for such use. No ditch or canal 
may be used for stormwaters unless adequately improved to handle such water as might be reasonably 
expected to flow from canal and ditch water, subdivision runoff water, and other water expected to reach 
such canal or ditch.  
18.14.050 - Street Improvements. 
A. The applicant shall submit a complete set of construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing and 
proposed, within the subdivision to Planning and Development Services  as part of a final plat 
application. Plans and profiles are to be prepared by a professional engineer licensed to practice in 
the State of Utah. The subdivider must also provide all GIS data corresponding to the submitted plans 
as required by Section 18.10.060. Planning and Development Services shall, within a reasonable time 
not to exceed twenty business (20) days from the receipt of the plans and profiles, notify the 
subdivider of approval, and in case of disapproval the reasons therefor e in accordance with the 
County Land Use Development and Management Act. Such plans and profiles shall include:  
1. The designation of limits of work to be done for street improvements;  
2. The location of the benchmark and its true elevation according to County Policy 1013, “Standards 
for Geographic Information System”  and the “ Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering GIS 
Standards,” all profiles to be referred to in those standards;  
3. Profiles which indicate the finished and existing grades for the centerline  of the street. Separate 
profiles, clearly designated, shall be made for each side of the street;  
4. Profile of all public storm drain system s and any private system that connects to any public 
system; 
5. Construction plans which include the details of curb and gutter and street cross-sections; location 
and elevation of manholes, catchbasins and storm sewers; elevations and location of fire 
hydrants; location of existing and proposed public survey control monuments and street 
centerline monuments; and any other detail necessary to simplify construction;  
6. Complete date for field layout and office checking;  
7. On curb returns, at least two additional control points for elevation besides those at points of 
curvature. Control points shall be staked in the field to ensure drainage at intersection; and 
8. The street address of the project as approved by Planning and Development Services and 
subdivision name if applicable.  
B. At least ten (10) days prior to the commencement of construction, the applicant  shall furnish to 
Planning and Development Services two (2) bound twenty-four inch by thirty-six inch (24” x 36”) hard 
copies of  the complete set of approved construction plans and profiles of all streets, existing and 
proposed, as well as all corresponding GIS data in a format compatible with section 18.10.060. The 
approved hard copy sets of the construction plans and profiles shall include all information required 
in Subsection A. 
18.14.060 - Reserved for future use 
18.14.070 - Utility and Facility Systems to Be Underground. 
All utility and facility systems including, but not limited to, all wires, lines, cables, conduits, and pipes 
providing services such as electricity, telephone, telegraph, cable television, gas, water, sewer, steam or 
petroleum including service drops, distribution systems, and transmission systems shall be placed 
underground in accordance with county ordinances and policies. (Refer to Chapter 19.46 of County Code, 
Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations.)  
18.14.080 - Street Lighting. 
A. Except as provided for in Subsection E below, adequate street lighting shall be provided in accordance 
with subsection (B)  for the safety and welfare of residents and businesses located in the county 
through the installation of a street lighting system as part of subdivision development.  
B. All streetlights intended to illuminate the public street shall be installed in accordance with the 
county’s "Standard Specifications for Street light Construction ." Streetlight systems shall be 
designated on approved plans and installed accordingly.  
1. For all residential, multi-family residential, planned unit development, commercial, and industrial 
subdivision developments, the applicant shall install and pay the installation costs for streetlights 
as shown on the approved subdivision plat or site plan and post a bond, pursuant to Chapter 
18.16, guaranteeing proper installation. The applicant shall also provide a dedicated public utility 
easement from each respective underground power source to each streetlight.  
2. Items to be approved pursuant to the requirements of the "Standard Specifications for Streetlight 
Construction" include:  
a. Appropriate distance or spacing between streetlights;  
b. Alternating sides of street, when applicable;  
c. Appropriate illumination at intersections;  
d. Location upon the property;  
e. Streetlight type and decorative style based on street classification;  
f. Height based on location;  
g. Installation methods and requirements; and  
h. Illumination intensity, electrical specifications, and code requirements as determined by the 
"Standard Specifications for Streetlight Construction."  
C. The applicant shall submit completed as-built-drawings and the GIS data corresponding to the as-built 
drawings, as required by Section 18.10.060,  to the Public Works Operations Director o r designee 
within thirty (30) days of the completion of the installation of a streetlight system within a subdivision 
development.  
D. The Public Works Operations Director or designee shall have the authority:  
1. To enforce this Section and to ensure that streetlight installation is completed in compliance with 
all of its requirements; and,  
2. To vary the standards referenced in this Section and to approve alternative streetlight designs and 
locations when adverse topography, roadway geometrics and design, the presence of natural 
vegetation, or any other adverse conditions exist which would justify such variations and 
alternatives without being detrimental to the public safety or welfare.  
E. The land use authority shall have the authority to waive the requirement for streetlight installation in 
subdivisions upon finding that:  
1. The subdivision is located in an environmentally sensitive area;  
2. The subdivision will result in three (3) or fewer new lots; or  
3. The subdivision will not result in any other public street improvements.  
18.14.090 - Pavement Requirements. 
A. All streets within the county shall be improved with pavements bounded by integral concrete curbs 
and gutters to an overall width in accordance with the standards, rules , and regulations adopted by 
the Council.  
B. Pavements shall be constructed in accordance with the requirements of the standards, rules , and 
regulations adopted by the Council.  
18.14.100 - Curbs and Gutters. 
A.  Curbs and gutters on all streets shall be concrete of the standard high -back-type unit, not less than 
two feet, six inches (2’ 6”) in overall width, and not less than seven inches (7”) thick where the curb 
abuts the street pavement.  
B. All curb corners shall have a radius of not less than twenty -five feet (25’), or thirty-five feet (35’) on 
streets designated as collector or arterial streets.  
C. The applicant shall install curbs, gutters,  and sidewalks on existing and proposed streets in all 
subdivisions.  
18.14.110 - Street Name Signs. 
The applicant shall provide the county with all s treet name signs, conforming to the design and 
specifications and in the number provided by the standards, rules , and regulations of the county for all 
street intersections  in a subdivision plat .  The county shall install all street name signs to ensure 
uniformity.  
18.14.120 - Trails. 
To the extent allowed by the County Land Use Development and Management Act, t he applicant shall 
dedicate trails necessary to provide public access to public lands and to connect to trails shown on the  
general plans or any other adopted plan or  required by the land use authority. Trails shall be located so 
that the route is feasible for both construction and long-term maintenance; side  slopes may not exceed 
seventy percent (70%) and rock cliffs and other insurmountable physical obstructions shall be avoided. 
The specific location of the trail right -of-way shall be verified on the ground before approval of the 
subdivision.  
18.14.130 - Fire Hydrants. 
Fire hydrants shall be installed by the applicant in all subdivisions in accordance with the regulations of 
the fire authority.  
18.14.140 - Stormwater Inlets and Catch Basins. 
Stormwater inlets and catch basins shall be provided by the applicant within the roadway improvements 
at points specified by the County Engineering Division.  
18.14.150 - Open Ditches and Canals. 
A. Open ditches or canals may not be allowed within or adjoining a subdivision except along rear or side 
lot lines. Subject to Section 73 -1-15.5 of the Utah Code,  the applicant shall work with irrigation, 
drainage, or ditch companies as to:  
1. Methods of covering, realigning,  or eliminating ditches or canals within or adjoining the 
subdivision;  
2. The size of pipe and culverts required;  
3. The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning,  and maintenance of such ditches, pipes , 
and culverts. In cases where canals or ditches cross public roads or proposed public roads, 
specifications and grades for pipe or culvert must be approved by Planning and Development 
Services.   
B. Irrigation components, whether open or piped, require water master approval.  
1. If existing irrigation components are suspected and not identified,  then verification by the water 
master is required.  
2. If irrigation components are present,  they are checked by the w ater master to comply with the 
ordinance.  
3. The Water Master's signature is required on any sheet in the final construction plans which show 
irrigation components.  
4. Final a pproval of the construction plans shall be  withheld until water master's signature is 
confirmed. 
18.14.160 - Fencing Requirements.  
A. The applicant shall install a six -foot (6’), decorative fence or wall with an approved fence cap, in 
conformance with the standards and rules and regulations adopted as provided in Chapter 18.12, 
along all open ditches, canals , railroad rights -of-way that are  on, crossing, or contiguous to the 
property being subdivided, except along those features which the land use authority shall determine 
would not be a hazard to life, or where the conforming structure would create a hazard to the safety 
of the public.  Prior to installing such a fence or wall, the applicant shall obtain a flood control permit 
from Salt Lake County in accordance with the Flood Control Facilities chapter of the Salt Lake County 
Code. 
B. Where lots rear on a public street , the developer shall install a decorative fence or wall  along the 
street right-of-way which is:  
1. Uniform in design, color tones, and materials within the subdivision  and compatible with other 
surrounding development;  
2. A solid visual barrier screening;  
3. A minimum of six feet (6’) high from the top of curb or, if there is no curb, from the crown of the 
street;  
4. Maintained by the abutting property owner;  
5. Constructed with a sealant placed on any masonry fence to help with the removal of graffiti and 
to preserve the surface;  
6. Constructed according to development standards approved by the land use authority; and 
7. Placed on the property line with the space between the fence and the sidewalk hard surfaced or 
planted with a perennial groundcover and an irrigation system.  
18.14.170 - Construction of Improvements. 
A. Twenty-four (24) hours prior to construction of any required improvements , the County Engineering 
Division shall be notified so that proper inspection may be provided and so that it may be determined 
whether or not proper authorization and/or required permits for construction have been obtained.  
B. As-built plans, profile drawings, and corresponding GIS data shall be furnished to the County  
Engineering Division of all street improvements, storm drain, sanitary sewer, and water systems upon 
completion. The improvement bond shall be retained until such plans have been submitted.  
C. Extreme care should be exercised on the part of the applicant, the applicant’s contractor, and all other 
associated agencies for the protection and maintenance of all existing or newly placed improvements 
or facilities within the roadway sections during development.  
18.14.180 - Responsibility for Damages. 
All damages to any bonded improvements or facilities incurred during the construction of improvements 
or during the warranty bond period  specified in section 18.16.0 50 shall be the sole responsibility of the 
applicant and shall be replaced to the satisfaction of the County  Engineering Division before final 
acceptance of any improvements and bond release.  
 
Chapter 18.16 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES. 
18.16.010 - Performance Guarantee Required. 
A. Wherever a performance guarantee is required under the terms of this T itle, the performance 
guarantee shall be submitted:  
1. In conformance with this Chapter; and  
2. Prior to the commencement of any improvements covered by the performance guarantee. 
18.16.020 - Performance Bonds. 
A. Prior to the recording of a plat or conducting any development activity and in lieu of actual completion 
of the improvements listed in this Title, an applicant may file with Planning and Development Services 
a performance bond to assure actual construction of such improvements within a thirteen month  
period of the date of the performance bond agreement .  The Director may grant an extension(s) of 
this period upon a showing of good cause.  
1. An applicant may choose to complete public improvements prior to recording a plat rather than 
bond for those improvements , in which case the applicant shall post a warranty bond prior to 
commencing construction of public improvements in accordance with section 18.16.050(A). 
B. If the applicant elects to post a performance bond in lieu of completing the improvements prior to 
the recording of the final plat, the applicant shall provide a performance bond for: 
1. The completion of one hundred percent (100%) of the required improvements; or 
2. If the  County Engineering Division has inspected and accepted a portion of the required 
improvements, one hundred percent (100%) of the incomplete or unaccepted improvements.  
C. The amount of the performance bond for public improvements , including but not limited to  curb, 
gutter, sidewalk, road construction and surfacing, stormwater, and fire hydrants shall be established 
by the County Engineering Division’s estimated cost of completion. 
D. To the extent allowed by the County Land Use, Development and Management Act, the performance 
bond shall also secure any required improvements on individual lots within the subdivision which are 
required in this Chapter.  
E. The performance bond shall be in the form of a surety bond, cash bond, an escrow agreement, or an 
irrevocable letter of credit from a financial institution located in the State of Utah. 
F. A performance bond agreement shall be entered into by the county and the applicant: 
1.    The performance bond agreement shall include a provision that the performance bond shall 
expire within thirteen (13) months  from the date issued  if the bonded improvements are not 
completed, and that the Director can grant an extension(s) of this period upon a showing of good 
cause. 
2.    If the bonded improvements have not been completed by that date, then the performance bond 
shall be considered foreclosed upon. 
3.    If the project has not been timely completed, a ll remaining funds shall be thereafter remitted to 
Planning and Development Services as set forth in the performance bond agreement. 
4.  The 13-month period in subsection (F)(1) may be extended only if special circumstances warrant 
an extension, as determined by the Director after consultation with the County  Engineering 
Division. 
G. A performance bond may be partially released if the performance to which it relates has been 
satisfactorily completed, except that not less than ten percent (10%) of the performance bond shall 
be retained to ensure completion of the entire performance , which shall be in addition to the 10% 
that must be retained as a warranty for all bonded improvements that have been installed. 
H. The Mayor may establish objective procedures consistent with this Section relating to the 
administration of performance bonds, including fund management, default , and collection.   The 
Mayor may provide direction on such procedures.   
18.16.030 - Final Disposition and Release. 
A.   Upon completion of the work for which a performance bond has been posted, the applicant shall 
submit to the Director or designee, one copy of a written request for release. 
B.    Within five (5) days a fter receipt of the notice and request under Subsection A of this Section, the 
County Engineering Division shall make a preliminary inspection of the improvements and shall submit 
a report to the Director or designee setting forth the condition of the improvements. 
C.   The Director or designee  shall receive the report and , within seven (7) days of the inspection,  
authorize release of a portion of the performance bond  corresponding to the work completed and 
approved if the County Engineering Division finds, based on the standards in Subsection E , that the 
condition of the improvements is satisfactory.  
D. The portion of the bond to be held as a warranty bond under Section 18.16.050 of this Chapter may 
not be released until the warranty period has expired and an inspection has been conducted by the 
County Engineering Division that finds, based on the  standards in Subsection E, that the condition of 
the improvements is satisfactory. 
E.   A bond may not be released if, after consulting with the County Engineering Division, the Director: 
1. Finds that the condition of material or workmanship shows unusual depreciation or does not 
comply with the acceptable standards of durability;  
2. Finds that any other terms of the bond agreement have not been satisfied; or 
3. As built plans , including profile drawings,  have not been filed and corresponding GIS data (as 
required) has not been submitted. 
F. If the bond is not released, the reasons shall be given to the applicant in writing within seven (7) days 
from the time of the inspection.  
G.   In the case of a dispute over the release of a performance bond under this Section, the applicant may 
appeal the Director’s decision not to release the bond pursuant to Salt Lake County Code section 
19.20.030. 
H. Bonds under this chapter shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth 
in Chapter 3.56 of County Code.  
18.16.040 - Default. 
A.   Upon substantiating a finding under Subsection B of this Section, the Director  or designee  with 
approval of the Mayor or designee may, with due notice to the applicant: 
1.   Declare the performance bond forfeited; and 
2.    Install or cause the required improvement to be installed using the proceeds from the 
performance bond to defray the costs. 
B.   A performance bond may be forfeited under Subsection A of this Section if the Director  or designee 
finds that an applicant has failed or neglected to: 
1.   Satisfactorily install the required improvements; 
2.   Make required corrections; 
3.  Make payment to Planning and Development Services for administration and inspections; or 
4. Carry out the activity for which the performance bond was required. 
C.   The applicant is responsible for work beyond the limits of the bond amount. 
D.   Any funds remaining after completion of the required improvements will be returned to the applicant. 
18.16.050 – Warranty Bond. 
A. Planning and Development Services shall retain as a warranty bond  not less than ten percent (10%) 
of the initial amount of the performance bond .  If an applicant chooses to complete public 
improvements prior to recording a plat rather than bond for those improvements, applicant shall post 
a warranty bond in the amount of 10% of the cost of the improvements  before constructing any of 
the improvements. The warranty bond shall be  in the form of a  surety bond, cash bond, an escrow 
agreement, or a n irrevocable  letter of credit . The warranty bond shall be for the purpose of 
warrantying the improvements and shall be for a period of: 
1.   One (1) year after final acceptance of the improvement or warranty work; or 
2.   Two (2) years after final acceptance of the improvement or warranty work, if the Director: 
a.   Determines for good cause that a lesser period would be inadequate to protect the public 
health, safety, and welfare; and 
b.   Has substantial evidence, on record, of any of the following: 
i.    Prior poor performance of the applicant; or 
ii. Suspect soil conditions within the subdivision or development area , as defined in the 
County Land Use, Development, and Management Act, which the county has not 
otherwise required the applicant to mitigate.  
B.    A determination under Subsection A (2) of this section shall be made by the  Director in consultation 
with the County Engineering Division. 
C.   If, after the warranty period, the durability of said improvements is found to be satisfactory, the 
warranty bond may be released following the procedure outlined under Section 18.16.030 of this 
Chapter. 
D. The County may call and use the warranty bond if an applicant elects to complete public 
improvements prior to recording a plat, but fails to complete that construction in the time period 
agreed to between the County and the applicant in the warranty bond agreement. 
E.   The person giving the warranty bond shall correct unacceptable elements of the covered 
improvements identified by the county if at any time during the warranty period: 
1.    Any required improvement fails or shows unusual depreciation; 
2.    It becomes evident that certain work was not completed; or 
3.    The materials or workmanship used in constructing the improvements do not otherwise comply 
with accepted standards of durability. 
F. If identified corrections are not made within a reasonable time, the Director , with approval from the 
County Mayor or designee , in accordance with Section 18.16.040 of this C hapter, may declare the 
applicant in default and use the warranty bond to defray the cost of any identified corrections 
required by the county. 
 
Chapter 18.18 SUBDIVISION AMENDMENTS. 
18.18.010 - Purpose. 
This Chapter establishes review and approval procedures for subdivision amendments and property 
boundary adjustments.  
18.18.020 - Boundary Line Adjustments. 
A. If properly executed and acknowledged as required by law, an agreement between owners of 
adjoining property that designates the boundary line between the adjoining properties acts, upon 
recording in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder  as a quitclaim deed to convey all of each 
party’s right, title, interest, and estate in property outside the agreed boundary line that had been the 
subject of the boundary line agreement or dispute that led to the boundary line agreement. 
B. Requirements. Adjoining property owners executing a boundary line agreement described in 
Subsection A shall: 
1. Ensure that violations of the width, area, frontage, setback and other requirements are not 
created,  that any existing, legal nonconformities are not increased by any degree , and that the 
agreement includes: 
a. A legal description of the agreed upon boundary line and of each parcel or lot after the 
boundary line is changed; 
b. T he name and signature of each grantor that is party to the agreement; 
c. A sufficient acknowledgment for each grantor’s signature; 
d. T he parcel identification number and street address of each grantee for assessment purposes; 
e. A legal description of the parcel or lot each grantor owns before the boundary line is changed; 
and 
f. T he date of the agreement if the date is not included in the acknowledgment in a form 
substantially similar to a quitclaim deed. 
2. I f any of the property subject to the boundary line agreement is part of a subdivision lot, prepare 
an amended plat, to be approved by the land use authority  designated by  S ection 18.08.010, 
before executing the boundary line agreement; and 
3. I f none of the property subject to the boundary line agreement is a part of a subdivision lot, ensure 
that the boundary line agreement includes a statement citing the file number of a record of a 
survey map on record with the Salt Lake County Surveyor. 
C. Presumptions. A boundary line agreement described in Subsection A that complies with Subsection B 
presumptively: 
1. Has no detrimental effect on any easement on the property that is recorded before the day on 
which the agreement is executed unless the owner of the property benefitting from the easement 
specifically modifies the easement within the boundary line agreement  or a separate recorded 
easement modification or relinquishment document; and 
2. R elocates the parties’ common boundary line for an exchange of consideration. 
D. Parcels. A boundary line agreement that only affects parcels of land is not subject to: 
1. Any public notice, public hearing, or preliminary platting requirement;  
2. T he review of a land use authority; or 
3. An engineering review or approval of the county , except as provided in Subsection E. 
E. Boundary Line Agreements when Dwelling Units are Present. 
1. If a parcel that is the subject of a boundary line agreement contains a dwelling unit, the owners 
shall submit the boundary line agreement to Planning and Development Services for review.  
2. The purpose of the review is to ensure that violations of the  width, area, frontage, setback and 
other requirements are not created, and that any existing, legal nonconformities are not 
increased by any degree.  
3. Planning and Development Services shall complete the review within fourteen (14) days after the 
day on which the property owner submits the boundary line agreement for review. 
4. If Planning and Development Services determines that the boundary line agreement is deficient 
or if additional information is required to approve the boundary line agreement, Planning and 
Development Services shall, within fourteen (14) days, send written notice to the property owner 
that: 
a. D escribes the specific deficiency or additional information required to approve the boundary 
line agreement; and 
b. State s that the county shall approve the boundary line agreement upon the property owner’s 
correction of the deficiency or submission of the additional information described in the 
notice;  
5. If Planning and Development Services approves the boundary line agreement, the division shall 
send written notice of the boundary line agreement’s approval to the property owner within 
fourteen (14) days. 
6. If the county fails to send a written notice within fourteen (14) days, the property owner may 
record the boundary line agreement as if no review was required. 
18.18.030 - Subdivision Amendments. 
A. Application Required. A fee owner of land, as shown on the last county assessment roll, in an approved 
subdivision that has been recorded with the Salt Lake County recorder  may file a n application with 
Planning and Development Services to request a subdivision amendment. 
B. P lat Required. Upon filing an application to request a subdivision amendment, the owner shall prepare 
a plat in accordance with Chapter 18.10 that: 
1. D epicts only the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to be amended; 
2. I ncludes a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from the original plat; 
3. D escribes the differences between the amended plat and the original plat; and 
4. I ncludes references to the original plat. 
C. Notice. The Director or designee shall provide notice of the petition by mail, email, or other effective 
means to each affected entity that provides a service to an owner of record of the portion of the plat 
that is being vacated or amended at least ten (10) calendar days before the Planning Commission may 
approve the petition for a subdivision amendment. 
D. P ublic Hearing Required.  The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing within forty- five (45) 
days after the day on which the petition is filed if: 
1. Any owner within the plat notifies the county of the owner’s objection in writing within ten ( 10) 
days of mailed notification; or 
2. A public hearing is required because all of the owners in the subdivision have not signed the 
revised plat. 
E. Public Hearing Not Required. The public hearing requirement does not apply,  and the Planning 
Commission may consider at a public meeting an owner’s petition for a subdivision amendment for 
any reason allowed in the Subdivision Amendment section of the County Land Use, Development, and 
Management Act: 
F. The Planning Commission may not approve a petition for a subdivision amendment under this Section 
unless the amendment identifies and preserves any easements owned by a culinary water authority 
and sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within the subdivision. 
G. A request to amend a public street or county utility easement is also subject to Section 18.18.050. 
H. A request to amend an entire plat or a portion of a plat shall include: 
1. The name and address of each owner of record of the land contained in the entire plat or on that 
portion of the plat described in the petition; and 
2. The signature of each owner of record  of the land contained in the entire plat or on that portion 
of the plat described in the petition who consents to the petition. 
I. The name of a recorded subdivision may be changed by recording an amended plat making that 
change, as provided in this Section. An owner of land may not submit for recording an amended plat 
that gives the subdivision described in the amended plat the same name as a subdivision in a plat 
already recorded in the Salt Lake County Recorder’s Office. 
1. The surveyor preparing the amended plat shall certify that the surveyor: 
a. Holds a license in accordance with Utah Code; and 
b. Has either (i) completed a survey of the property described on the plat in accordance Utah 
Code and has verified all measurements; or (ii) Has referenced a record of survey map of the 
existing property boundaries shown on the plat and verified the locations of the boundaries; 
and 
c. Has placed monuments as represented on the plat. 
18.18.040 - Approval of Vacation or Amendment of Plat  
A. The land use authority may approve the vacation or amendment of a plat by signing an amended plat 
showing the vacation or amendment if the land use authority finds that: 
1. There is good cause for the vacation or amendment; and 
2. No public street or county utility easement has been vacated or amended. 
B. The land use authority shall ensure that the amended plat showing the vacation or amendment is 
recorded in the office of the Salt Lake County Recorder.  
C. If the amended plat is approved and recorded in accordance with this Section, the recorded plat shall 
vacate, supersede, and replace any contrary provision in a previously recorded plat of the same land. 
D. The Council may vacate a subdivision or a portion of a subdivision by recording in the Salt Lake County 
Recorder’s Office an ordinance describing the subdivision or the portion being vacated. The recorded 
vacating ordinance shall replace a previously recorded plat described in the vacating ordinance. 
E. An amended plat may not be submitted to the Salt Lake County Recorder for recording unless it is: 
1. Signed by the land use authority; and 
2. Signed, acknowledged, and dedicated by each owner of record of the portion of the plat that is 
amended. 
F. A management committee may sign and dedicate an amended plat as provided in the Utah 
Condominium Ownership Act. 
G.  A plat may be corrected as provided in Utah Code §57-3-106. 
18.18.050 - Petition to Vacate a Public Street. 
A. If a public street is vacated through a plat or amended plat,  the plat shall be prepared and reviewed 
in accordance with the processes outlined in this title for a subdivision plat or amended subdivision 
plat.  In lieu of vacating some or all of a public street through a plat or amended plat in accordance 
with Utah Code, the Council may approve a petition to vacate a public street in accordance with this 
section. The process followed in this section shall apply to any petition to vacate a public street within 
the County without regard to how the public street was created. 
B. Application.  A petition to vacate some or all of a public street or county utility easement shall include: 
1. The name and address of each owner of record of land that is: 
a. Adjacent to the public street or county utility easement between the two nearest public street 
intersections; or 
b. Accessed exclusively by or within three hundred feet (300’) of the public street or county 
utility easement.  
2. Proof of written notice to operators of utilities and culinary water or sanitary sewer facilities 
located within the bounds of the public street or county utility easement sought to be vacated; 
and 
3. The signature of each owner identified in Subsection B(1)(a) who consents to the vacation. 
4. All applicable fees found in the adopted fee schedule. 
C. Public Hearing.  If a petition is submitted containing a request to vacate some or all of a public street 
or county utility easement, the Council shall hold a public hearing, giving notice of the date, place, and 
time of the hearing as follows: 
1. At least ten (10) days before the public hearing, the Council shall ensure that notice is: 
a. published by the County as follows for at least 10 days: 
 i. notice shall be published on the Utah Public Notice Website; 
ii. notice shall be published on the County’s official website; and 
iii. notice shall be posted:  
A. on or adjacent to the public street if the petition is to vacate a public street or 
B. on or adjacent to the easement or in a public location reasonably likely to be seen by 
persons who are likely to be impacted by the easement if the petition is to vacate a 
county utility easement. 
b. Provided to the owner of each parcel that is accessed by the public street or county utility 
easement; and  
c. Mailed to each affected entity. 
2. The purpose for holding a public hearing is for the Council to determine whether: 
a. Good cause exists for the vacation; and 
b. The public interest or any person will be materially injured by the proposed vacation. 
3. In determining whether good cause exists to vacate all or a portion of any public street, the 
Council shall consider: 
a. the specific manner in which the county acquired its interest in the street and the county’s 
legal interest in the street; and  
b. the need in the foreseeable future for its use as a public street or for any other public 
purpose. If such need exists or may exist in the foreseeable future, the petition shall be 
denied. 
D. A doption.   
1. The Council may adopt an ordinance granting a petition to vacate some or all of a public street or 
county utility easement if the Council finds that: 
a. Good cause exists for the vacation; and 
b. Neither the public interest nor any person will be materially injured by the vacation. 
2. If the Council adopts an ordinance vacating some or all of a public street or county utility 
easement, the Council shall ensure that one or both of the following is recorded in the office of 
the Salt Lake County Recorder: 
a. A plat reflecting the vacation; or 
b. An ordinance described in Subsection D(1) and a legal description of the public street to be 
vacated. 
3. The action of the Council vacating some or all of a public street or county utility easement that 
has been dedicated to public use: 
a. Operates to the extent to which it is vacated, upon the effective date of the recorded plat or 
ordinance, as a revocation of the acceptance of and the relinquishment of the county’s fee in 
the vacated public street or county utility easement; and 
b. May not be construed to impair: 
i. Any right-of-way or easement of any parcel or lot owner; 
ii. The rights of any public utility; or 
iii. The rights of a culinary water authority or sanitary sewer authority. 
4. The Council may not approve a petition to vacate a public street under this section unless the 
vacation identifies and preserves any easements owned by a culinary water authority and sanitary 
sewer authority for existing facilities located within the public street. 
E. County Petition to Vacate.  The County may submit a petition, in accordance with Subsection B, and 
initiate and complete a process to vacate some or all of a public street. 
1. If the county submits a petition and initiates a process under this subsection: 
a. The Council shall hold a public hearing; 
b. The petition and process may not apply to or affect a public utility easement, except to the 
extent: 
i. The easement is not a protected utility easement as defined in Utah Code; 
ii. The easement is included within the public street; and 
iii. The notice to vacate the public street also contains a notice to vacate the easement. 
c. A recorded ordinance to vacate a public street has the same legal effect as vacating a public 
street through a recorded plat or amended plat. 
F.   Compensation.  Vacation of the county's interest in public streets should be viewed as a transfer of 
a substantial property right for which the public should be compensated. To prevent windfall 
enrichment to abutting property owners at public expense, such transfer shoul d not be made 
without compensation being paid to the county.  When considering the compensation to be paid to 
the county for a petition to vacate some or all of a public street or county utility easement, the Council 
shall take into account the following:  
1.   Alleys, Walkways and Trails. Alleys, walkways, and trails are not generally within the current 
planning and maintenance policies of the County.  Vacation of an alley, walkway, or trail relieves 
the County from present or future obligations to maintain such alley, walkway or trail.  This 
benefit to the County is declared to be adequate compensation for the County's interest. Where 
appropriate, the County may require conditions precedent to the vacation of any alley, 
walkway, or trail such as installation of landscaping, fencing, or other improvements which must 
be completed or bonded for prior to the transfer of county property interests. 
2.    All other streets shall not be vacated or permanently closed unless adequate compensation has 
been paid for the transfer of the County's interest in the land.  Generally, such compensation 
shall be the fair market value of the land.  In appropriate cases compensation may be provided 
for in part or in whole, through an exchange of land or relocation of streets within an existing 
subdivision. Where the county's interest in a street is transferred to another public entity for a 
public use which benefits the county, the Council may determine that the benefit to the county 
from such use is adequate compensation for the land.  Where appropriate, county may require 
conditions precedent such as the installation of landscaping, fencing or other improvements 
which must be completed or bonded for prior to the transfer of property rights. 
18.18.060 - Amendments to Create Additional Lots. 
An amendment to a recorded subdivision to create one or more additional lots shall follow the approval 
procedure outlined in Chapter 18.08. Where the amendment does not include the creation of additional 
infrastructure beyond service lines, this amendment process may utilize a streamlined final plat process. 
18.18.070 - Other Amendments to Subdivisions. 
A. An amendment to a recorded subdivision that involves the alteration or removal of an easement, 
private right-of-way, condition, limitation, or special requirement shall follow the approval procedure 
outlined in Chapter 18.08 with the following variations:  
1. Only those persons or entities who have a direct interest in, or who will be directly affected by 
the proposed change (including the applicant) must be notified of any pending action; and  
2. No preliminary plat need be approved. The recommendations of the affected entities and the 
approval of the Planning Commission may be based on a final plat.  
18.18.080 - Correction of Technical Errors. 
An amendment to correct a technical error, such as misnumbered street addresses or an errant note on 
the plat may be done through recording an affidavit of correction by the Director.  
 
Chapter 18.20 FILING PROFESSIONAL SURVEYS. 
18.20.010 - Filing Required, Indexing and Fees. 
A. Any licensed professional land surveyor making a boundary survey of private lands within this state 
who establishes or reestablishes any property boundary line or who obtains data for construction of 
a map of a plat showing the boundary line shall file a map of the survey that meets the requirements 
of this Chapter  with the Salt Lake County Surveyor within ninety (90) days of the establishment or 
reestablishment of the boundary line.  
B. The Salt Lake County Surveyor shall file and index the map of the survey which will thereafter be a 
public record in the office of the Salt Lake County Surveyor and will be available for examination and 
purchase by the public. The Salt Lake County Surveyor will provide facilities for copying such maps 
and associated documents.  
C. Fees will be charged for services in accordance with the adopted fee schedule.  
D. The requirements of this Section are in addition to Chapter 14.17, Excavation Permit for Monuments.  
18.20.020 - Contents of Maps. 
A. The Salt Lake County Surveyor will screen maps of survey that are submitted to ensure that they 
conform to the requirements set forth in this Chapter  before receiving them. Such maps shall be 
drawn on a twenty-four-inch by thirty-six-inch (24” x 36”) reproduceable mylar using waterproof black 
drawing ink with text of not less than one-tenth inch in size; or submitted as a digital electronic file in 
a type and format approved by the Salt Lake County Surveyor; and shall show:  
1. The location of survey by quarter section and township and range;  
2. The date of survey;  
3. The scale of drawing and north point;  
4. The distance and course of all lines traced or established, giving the basis of bearing and the 
distance and course to two or more  section corners or quarter corners , including township and 
range, or to identified monuments within a recorded subdivision;  
5. All measured bearings, angles and distances separately indicated from those of record;  
6. A written boundary description of property surveyed;  
7. All monuments set and their relation to older monuments found;  
8. A detailed description of monuments found and monuments set, indicated separately;  
9. The surveyor's seal or stamp;  
10. The surveyor's business name and address; and 
11. Each boundary survey map shall reserve a one and one- half by four-inch (1.5” x 4”) space in the 
lower right-hand corner of the drawing for the Salt Lake County Surveyor’s use in indexing. 
18.20.030 - Written Narrative. 
A. The map of survey shall  include a written narrative that explains and identifies the purpose of the 
survey; the basis on which the lines were established; and the found monuments and deed elements 
that controlled the established or reestablished lines.  
B. If the narrative is a separate document, it shall contain the location of the survey by quarter section 
and by township and range, the date of the survey, the surveyor's stamp or seal; and the surveyor's 
business name and address. 
18.20.040 - Marking Monuments. 
A. Any monument set by a licensed professional land surveyor to mark or reference a point on a property 
of land or land line shall be durably and visibly marked or tagged with the registered business name 
or the letters "L.S." followed by the registration number of the surveyor in charge.  
B. If the monument is set by a public officer, it shall be marked with the official title of the office.  
18.20.050 - Changes of Section or Quarter Section Corners. 
A. If, in the performance of a survey, a surveyor finds or makes any changes to the section corner or 
quarter-section corner, or their accessories as they are described in an existing corner record or survey 
map in the Office of the Salt Lake County Surveyor, the surveyor shall complete and submit to the Salt 
Lake County Surveyor a record of the changes made.  
B. The record shall be submitted within forty -five (45) days of the corner visit and shall include the 
surveyor's seal, business name, and address.  
18.20.060 - Compliance by Governmental Agencies. 
Each federal or state agency, board or commission, district, or county corporation that makes a boundary 
survey of lands within unincorporated Salt Lake County shall comply with this Chapter.  
18.20.070 - Amendment by Affidavit. 
A. Any survey map or narrative filed and recorded under the provisions of this Chapter may be amended 
by an affidavit of corrections:  
1. To show any courses or distances omitted from the map or narrative;  
2. To correct an error in the description of the real property shown on the map or narrative; or  
3. To correct any other errors or omissions where the error or omission is ascertainable from the 
data shown on the map or narrative as recorded.  
B. The affidavit of correction shall be prepared by the licensed  professional land surveyor who filed the 
map or narrative.  
C. In the event of the death, disability or retirement from practice of the surveyor who filed the map or 
narrative, the Salt Lake County Surveyor may prepare the affidavit of correction.  
D. The affidavit shall set forth in detail the corrections made.  
E. The seal and signature of the registered professional land surveyor filing the affidavit of correction 
shall be affixed to the affidavit.  
18.20.080 - County Surveyor Certification. 
A. The Salt Lake County Surveyor having jurisdiction of the map or narrative shall certify that the affidavit 
of correction has been examined and that the changes shown on the map or narrative are changes 
permitted under this Section.  
B. Nothing in this section permits changes in courses or distances for the purpose of redesigning parcel 
configurations.  
18.20.090 - Penalty. 
Failure to file a map of survey as required in this Chapter is guilty of an infraction.  
 
Chapter 18.22 HEALTH DEPARTMENT REGULATIONS. 
18.22.010 - Adoption of Health Regulations. 
The regulating provisions of the Salt Lake County Health Department, entitled "Subdivisions," as currently 
adopted by the Board of Health under authority of the Utah State Code are incorporated in their entirety 
by reference.  
18.22.020 - Violations. 
Violation of any provision of any health regulation incorporated into this Title  shall constitute a Class B 
misdemeanor as defined by the Utah State Code. Each day such violation is committed or permitted to 
continue shall constitute a separate offense and shall be punished as such.  
 
Chapter 18.24 FEES, ADMINISTRATION, AND ENFORCEMENT. 
18.24.010 - Building Permit Issuance. 
From the effective date of the ordinance codified in this Title , the building inspector may  not grant a 
permit, nor may any county officer grant any license or permit for the use of any land or the construction 
or alteration of any building or structure on a  parcel or lot which would be in violation of any provisions 
of this Title until a subdivision plat has been recorded or approved as required in this Chapter. Any license 
or permit issued in conflict with such provisions is void.  
18.24.020 - Filing Fee. 
Any and all persons filing plats with the Salt Lake County Recorder shall first have paid all fees required in 
this Title. In addition, persons filing plats shall pay to Planning and Development Services prior to 
recording, an office checking fee as provided for in Section 3.48.020.  
18.24.030 - Inspections. 
Salt Lake County Public Works  shall inspect or cause to be inspected all buildings, street improvements, 
fire hydrants, and water supply and sewage disposal systems in the course of construction, installation , 
or repair. Excavations for the fire hydrants and water and sewer mains and laterals may  not be covered 
or backfilled until such installation shall have been approved by the servi ce provider . If any such 
installation is covered before being inspected and approved, it shall be uncovered after notice to uncover 
has been issued to the responsible person by the inspector.  
18.24.040 - Enforcement Authority. 
Planning and D evelopment Services, the County Engineering Division, and such other divisions  as are 
specified under the provisions of this Title  are designated and authorized as the agencies charged with 
the enforcement of the provisions of this Title  and shall enter such actions in court as are necessary. 
Failure of such departments to pursue appropriate legal remedies does  not legalize any violation of such 
provisions.  
18.24.050 - Forms and Instructions. 
Application forms and instructions for preparing and processing plats and plans in accordance with these 
regulations are periodically updated. Current copies of these forms and instructions are available upon 
request from the Director . Documentation requirements are also specified in Chapter 18.10, and 
application completeness standards are articulated in Chapter 18.08. Applicants will be required to submit 
such other information and fees as may be required by the Director o r designee to substantiate 
compliance with this Title and other applicable codes and ordinances. 
 
Chapter 18.26 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES. 
18.26.010 - Prohibited Acts. 
A. If a subdivision requires a plat, an owner of any land located in a subdivision who transfers or sells any 
land in that subdivision before a plat of the subdivision has been approved and recorded violates this 
Title for each lot or parcel transferred or sold. 
B. The description by metes and bounds in an instrument of transfer or other documents used in the 
process of selling or transferring does not exempt the transaction from being a violation of this Title  
or from the penalties or remedies provided in this Chapter. 
C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this subsection, the recording of an instrument of transfer or 
other document used in the process of selling or transferring real property that violates this part: 
1. Does not affect the validity of the instrument or other document; and 
2. Does not affect whether the property that is the subject of the instrument or other document 
complies with applicable county ordinances on land use and development. 
18.26.020 – Violation, Penalty. 
Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this Title, including the violation of a condition, limitation,  
or requirement contained on a recorded subdivision plat, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction 
of any such violation, shall be punished as provided by the state criminal code for Class B misdemeanors.  
18.26.030 – Violation, Remedies. 
A. The county may bring an action against an owner to require the property to conform to the provisions 
of this Title or an ordinance enacted under the authority of this Title. 
B. An action under this Subsection may include an injunction or any other appropriate action or 
proceeding to prevent or enjoin the violation. 
C. The county need only establish the violation to obtain the injunction. 
 
SECTION II. This ordinance shall become effective fifteen (15) days after its passage and upon at 
least one publication of the ordinance or a summary thereof in a newspaper published and having  
general circulation in Salt Lake County. 
 
 
 
 
 
APPROVED and ADOPTED this  day of  , 2024. 
 
SALT LAKE COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
 
 
Aimee Winder Newton, Chair 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
Salt Lake County Clerk 
 
 
REVIEW AS TO FORM AND LEGALITY: 
 
________________________________ 
Deputy District Attorney 
 
 
ORDINANCE HISTORY 
Council Member Alvord voting  __________ 
Council Member Bradley voting  __________ 
Council Member Bradshaw voting __________ 
Council Member Granato voting   __________ 
Council Member Harrison voting  __________ 
Council Member Stewart voting  __________ 
Council Member Stringham voting __________ 
Council Member Theodore voting  __________ 
Council Member Winder Newton voting __________ 
 
 
 
    Vetoed and dated this  __day of __________  , 2023. 
 
 
BY _________________________________  
Mayor Jennifer Wilson  
 
(Complete as Applicable) 
Veto override: Yes ___No ___Date_________ 
Ordinance Published in newspaper: Date______ 
Effective date of ordinance:   ___________ 
 
SUMMARY OF 
 
SALT LAKE COUNTY ORDINANCE NO.    
 
 
On the  day of   , 2024, the County Council of Salt 
Lake County adopted Ordinance No.  , repealing and replacing Title 18 of 
the Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 2001, entitled “Subdivisions,” in order to 
comprehensively update the title to reflect state legislative changes, changes to the planning 
and development service provider for Salt Lake County, and to otherwise update Salt Lake 
County policy on subdivisions to reflect better principles of planning, efficiency, and 
affordability; and making other related changes. 
 
A complete copy of Ordinance No.  is available in the office of the Salt 
Lake County Clerk, 2001 South State St., N2100A, Salt Lake City, Utah. 
 
SALT LAKE COUNTY COUNCIL 
 
 
 
By:____________________________
Aimee Winder Newton, Chair 
 
ATTEST: 
 
 
Lannie Chapman 
Salt Lake County Clerk 