SALT LAKE COUNTY
Agenda Item
2001 So. State Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114
File #: 23-1295
Requested Agenda Date:
2/6/2024
Requested Agenda Title:
Budget Adjustment: Clark Planetarium requests $140,475 increase to the budget of the Annex Remodel on 400
West due to construction cost increases. The additional budget will come from their restricted fund balance.
Requested Agenda Item Description: Clark Planetarium requests a project true-up for the re-budgeted
amount of the Annex Remodel on 400 West and an increase to the total budget from the restricted fund balance.
The Annex project construction bids exceed the total project budget. The significant increase and our options
for proceeding have been evaluated with the assistance of Facilities Management. When the architect calculated
the probable cost estimate in September 2023, costs from another county project with similar features were
used as the basis. Facilities Management determined the reason(s) that the bids were higher than estimated,
include (1) mechanical and plumbing labor costs, (2) tenant improvement in a confined location at Gateway,
and (3) volume of space due to high ceilings. We have also consulted with a third-party cost estimator. They
confirmed that the cost per square foot is average for tenant improvements and advised that re-bidding would
likely lead to higher costs. After evaluating the cost/benefit of continuing with the current bids or rebidding, the
prudent decision was to request a budget adjustment using Planetarium's restricted fund balance, which was set
aside for capital projects. Additionally, the re-budgeted amount for the project needs to be trued-up. Two
encumbrances were released in December and fell to unassigned fund balance. With the budget adjustment and
true-up, the Planetarium can accept the current bid and move forward with the annex expansion. The
completion of the project will enable the Planetarium to reach more people and inspire a deeper interest in
science-related experiences.
Requested Action: Discussion - Vote Needed
Presenter(s) (with titles): Hoa Nguyen, Council Budget and Policy Analyst
Time Needed: Less than 5 MINS
Is this Item Time-Sensitive and/or Requesting a Time-Certain? No
Requesting Staff Member: Robin Chalhoub, Community Services, Department Director
Are Supporting Documents Needed for this Agenda Item Request? Yes
SALT LAKE COUNTY Printed on 1/31/2024Page 1 of 1
powered by Legistar™