Regional Development 
2001 S. State Street S2-100 
PO Box 144575 
Salt Lake City, UT 84114-4575 
  
  
 
Staff Report Summary and Recommendation for update to 
Wasatch Canyons General Plan 
 
Public Body: Salt Lake County Council                     Meeting Date: May 19, 2020  
     
 
Planner: Jake Young / Legal: Zach Shaw 
Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission Recommendation: Approval 
 
PLAN DESCRIPTION 
In 2017 Salt Lake County began the process of preparing a long-range comprehensive plan update for the 
Wasatch Canyons General Plan (“Plan”). On March 5th, 2020, the Mountainous Planning District Planning 
Commission (“Planning Commission”) recommended approval for the plan. The Updated Wasatch Canyons 
General Plan will replace the County’s 1989 Wasatch Canyons Master Plan. The Plan includes the required 
planning elements of Housing, Land Use and Transportation. Non-required elements of Recreation, Environment 
and Economy are also included. The Plan provides strategies to deal with growth in canyon recreation, policies 
regarding transportation, and methods for improving and maintaining healthy ecosystems.  
 
PLANNING PROCESS 
The plan preparation process has been methodical and taken nearly 3 years to complete. The process began 
with existing conditions research, review of all existing studies and plans for the Canyons, stakeholder interviews 
and the formation of a Steering Committee. The Steering Committee met and provided guidance throughout the 
process. Members were from the planning commission, Salt Lake County staff (including the Municipal Services 
District), USDA Forest Service, Utah Department of Transportation, Utah Transit Authority, Central Wasatch 
Commission staff, and Salt Lake City Public Utilities. 
 
The Planning Commission provided ongoing participation, and nearly every monthly meeting with the 
Commission included an update, discussion, and/ or recommendations for the plan. 
 
The planning process included more than 17 public events located in multiple cities in Salt Lake County and in the 
Canyons. The public provided input on maps, comment cards, and surveys. The public process also included two 
online surveys with 3,000+ respondents. 
 
Early on a vision was developed with statements regarding land use, transportation, recreation, economy, and 
environment. The vision developed into goals for the canyons with strategies, policies, and actions to achieve 
them. Following the preparation of the draft plan, multiple open houses were carried out and the plan went 
through many revisions with feedback given by the public, stakeholders, Steering Committee, Planning 
Commission and others. Two public hearings were held by the Planning Commission, which  provided a 
recommendation on March 5th. 
 
 
 

               Request: General Plan Update 
 
General Plan Update   Page 2 of 6 
PROJECT AREA  
The General Plan area includes Parleys Canyon, Mill Creek Canyon, Big Cottonwood Canyon (including Town of 
Brighton), Little Cottonwood Canyon (except Alta) and adjacent Unincorporated foothills.  
 
 
 
 

               Request: General Plan Update 
 
General Plan Update   Page 3 of 6 
STATE LAW REQUIREMENTS  
The Wasatch Canyons General Plan meets the requirements of the State Code for General Plans.  
 
The General Plan Process has met the following conditions as required in State Code:  
 
Notice of preparing General Plan, the Planning Commission recommended the Plan for approval, and the 
Plan does include the area of Town of Brighton. 
Utah State Code 17-27a-403.  Plan preparation. 
(1) (a) The planning commission shall provide notice, as provided in Section 17-27a-203, of its intent to make a 
recommendation to the county legislative body for a general plan or a comprehensive general plan amendment 
when the planning commission initiates the process of preparing its recommendation.  
(b) The planning commission shall make and recommend to the legislative body a proposed general plan for:  
(i) the unincorporated area within the county; or 
(ii) if the planning commission is a planning commission for a mountainous planning district, the mountainous 
planning district. 
(c) (i) The plan may include planning for incorporated areas if, in the planning commission's judgment, they are 
related to the planning of the unincorporated territory or of the county as a whole. 
(ii) Elements of the county plan that address incorporated areas are not an official plan or part of a municipal plan 
for any municipality, unless it is recommended by the municipal planning commis sion and adopted by the 
governing body of the municipality. 
(iii) Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(c)(ii), if property is located in a mountainous planning district, the plan for the 
mountainous planning district controls and precedes a municipal plan, if any, to which the property would be 
subject. 
 
The Plan includes maps, charts, and descriptions. 
Utah State Code 17-27a-403.   
(2) (a) At a minimum, the proposed general plan, with the accompanying maps, charts, and descriptive and 
explanatory matter, shall include the planning commission's recommendations for the following plan elements:  
 
The Plan includes proposed land uses including housing, business, industry, recreation, education, and 
other land uses. Recommendations for Federal Lands (Forest Service) are supportive in nature and 
complimentary to their current plans. 
Utah State Code 17-27a-403.   
(i) a land use element that: 
(A) designates the long-term goals and the proposed extent, general distribution, and location of land for housing 
for residents of various income levels, business, industry, agriculture, recreation, education, public buildings and 
grounds, open space, and other categories of public and private uses of land as appropriate; and  
(B) may include a statement of the projections for and standards of population density and building intensity 
recommended for the various land use categories covered by the plan; 
 
The Plan includes proposed transportation improvements and facilities. Transportation 
recommendations are linked to current and growing demands. Recommendations for State Routes are 
supportive and do not supersede their authority. 
Utah State Code 17-27a-403.  Plan preparation. 
(ii) a transportation and traffic circulation element that: 
(A) provides the general location and extent of existing and proposed freeways, arterial and collector streets, 
public transit, active transportation facilities, and other modes of transportation that the planning commission 
considers appropriate; 
(B) addresses the county's plan for residential and commercial development around major transit investment 
corridors to maintain and improve the connections between housing, employment, education, recreation, and 
commerce; and 
(C) correlates with the population projections, the employment projections, and the proposed land use element of 
the general plan; 
 
In December 2019 Salt Lake County Council adopted a Moderate Income Housing plan for the 
unincorporated area of Salt Lake County. The Wasatch Canyons General Plan includes  the same 
recommendations as adopted in the 2019 Moderate Income Housing Plan.  
               Request: General Plan Update 
 
General Plan Update   Page 4 of 6 
 
Utah State Code 17-27a-403.  
(iii) a plan for the development of additional moderate income housing within the unincorporated area of the 
county or the mountainous planning district, and a plan to provide a realistic opportunity to meet the need for 
additional moderate income housing; and 
 
Salt Lake County adopted a Resource Management Plan in 2017, this document is part of the County’s 
General Plan. The Wasatch Canyons General Plan is compatible with the County’s Resource Management 
Plan.  
Utah State Code 17-27a-403.  
(iv) before May 1, 2017, a resource management plan detailing the findings, objectives, and policies required by 
Subsection 17-27a-401(3). 
 
 
PUBLIC COMMENTS 
In general, the public is supportive of the plan. Public participation took place throughout the entire process , which 
has resulted in smaller number of comments at the end of the process. 
 
Recent email comments include the following: 
 
Barbara Cameron/Big Cottonwood Community Council - Date 05.06.2020  
Big Cottonwood Canyon Community Council is grateful to the staff and consultants who have included our 
community in this General Plan Update every step of the way. It is a comprehensive plan for our future, and we 
look forward to helping implement its suggestions and guidelines. Congratulations on a very impressive pr oject. 
Barbara Cameron 
Chair, BCCA"  
 
Doug Hansen – 05.11.2020 
Here is a link that gives a little history on the quarry in parleys 
canyon(https://utahrails.net/industries/cement.php).  This quarry has been operating since the late 1800’S and 
has always been a key component to the growth of the Salt Lake Valley. The quarry is very important element to 
Utah’s present and future economic growth. I believe it might be worthy to be added to the timeline.  
 
P. Bruce Badger – 05.14.2020 
I own a cabin in The Firs summer home tract in Millcreek Canyon.  Please, please, please do not put a trash 
receptacle at the Alexander Basin trail head.  My cabin is one of the closest to that trail head (nearly across the 
road) and a trash receptacle will attract bears and other animals.  This would risk the safety of my children and 
grandchildren.   Please don't do it. 
 
The Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission held two Public Hearings February  6th, 2020 and 
March 5th 2020. 
 
At the February 6th meeting 10 speakers spoke regarding the General Plan. 
These comments are taken from the minutes. 
https://www.utah.gov/pmn/files/580175.pdf  
Speaker # 1: Sierra Club Name: Will McCarvill Address: 3607 Golden Hills Avenue Comments: Mr. McCarvill said 
he likes the plan, forward looking, much better than the old plan. Definite engagement by the county in the hills, 
county stepped up and would be a good partner, including money. Users are Salt Lake County residents.  
 
Speaker # 2: Big Cottonwood Community Council Name: Barbara Cameron Comments: Ms. Cameron said she 
agrees with Mr. McCarvill, outstanding plan and pleasure working with all involved. Accessory dwelling units and 
short-term rentals discussed. Read from her handout; can work on action items in ordinances.  
 
Speaker # 3: Town of Brighton Council Name: Carolyn Keigley Address: Comments: Ms. Keigley  read from her 
emails. Asked to limit density/number of short-term rentals, make affordable for locals to live.  
 
               Request: General Plan Update 
 
General Plan Update   Page 5 of 6 
Speaker # 4: Citizen Name: Norm Henderson Address: Comments: Mr. Henderson said he has appreciation for 
the plan. Transportation planning is a focus of the plan and a requirement to focus on that. Concerned the plan 
didn’t hearken back to the state direction in the Wasatch canyons. Mountain accord was trying to find a solution. 
State came out with goals of what needed to be done and connection of the seven ski resorts between Summit 
and Salt Lake County. People getting trapped at dead ends because of catastrophe, and ski resorts concerned. 
Plan should have brought the goals of the state into the county plan and addressed. Suggestion Town of Brighton 
be brought into the process and get their thoughts as well. Concern with safety and transportation is a big 
concern.  
 
Speaker # 5: Parley’s Canyon Community Council Name: Shaun Hoggan Address: Mount Aire Comments: Mr. 
Hoggan thanked staff for the open hearing environment. Indicated demographics of P arley’s is different, various 
stipulations in a blanket format may not apply. Moderate-income housing difficult for residents of the area. 
Appreciate Ms. Cameron’s comments on suggestions and alternatives.  
 
Speaker # 6: Citizen Name: Kirk Nichols Address: 12377 Camp Tuttle Road Comments: Mr. Nichols referred to 
three gap studies. Latent demand study indicates visitation will double tomorrow if it’s easy to get up the canyon. 
Suggests a little more regional transportation planning for Wasatch front and back connection. Suggests a visitor 
use management study; similar to proposals with CWC.  
 
Speaker # 7: UDOT Name: John Thomas Address: 2060 South 2760 West Comments: Mr. Thomas said the 
County reached out to UDOT and did a really good job engaging meaningfully with the public. Taught and 
showed the importance of the canyons. Good overview of topics and issues and support different goals and 
policies and action items and very engaged. Working with Mr. Young was fantastic and engaged and recognized 
his meaning for being there. UDOT supports the general plan.  
 
Speaker # 8: Town of Brighton Mayor Name: Dan Knopp Address: 11332 East Big Cottonwood Canyon 
Comments: Mr. Knopp said the council met prior to this meeting. Mr. Young was supposed to bring the general 
plan to the council meeting, little too much work to do in that meeting. Now some issues resolved, thinks town will 
be able to support but requests Commission to push off until after the town council meeting in March (Council 
ultimately recommended approval).  
 
Speaker # 9: Save our Canyons Name: Carl Fisher Address: 3690 East Fort Union Blvd, #101 Comments: Mr. 
Fisher said he compared notes from October and January. Great work; doesn’t know he’s ever been to a meeting 
on the Wasatch mountains where everyone is saying the same thing. Likes the idea of parking garages outside of 
the canyons on approaches. Requests stronger language on ski area expansion and connect. Supported the 
legacy product environmental dashboard and funding. Need funding for plan implementation, including retaining 
revenues from canyon users and other innovative solutions. Advised the MRZ is not mountain recreation zone but 
mountain resort zone.  
 
Speaker # 10: Citizen Name: Emily Gretsky Address: Brighton Comments: Ms. Gretsky said she loves the 
collaboration. When the projects are outlined, a lot of good ideas come from the locals to get involved. Echoes 
keeping funds in the town and she operates a short-term rental and is honest. Concern over potential short-term 
rental ordinance limitations encouraging short-term rentals to fly under the radar and hurt the community. 
Supports reasonable regulations of short-term rentals, not everyone is as responsible.  
 
The March 2020 Planning Commission meeting notes are unavailable. During that public hearing multiple 
comments were made regarding the need for emergency egress, water availability for ADUs, including housing 
data for building permits in the plan, and emergency planning.  
 
The Town of Brighton and residents have concern over short term rentals. Currently the Planning Commission is 
working on an update to the County’s short-term rental ordinance to address the concerns raised in the public 
comment to the General Plan, which it will share with the County Council and request that such update go 
through the public process. 
 
 
 
 
               Request: General Plan Update 
 
General Plan Update   Page 6 of 6 
MOUNTAINOUS PLANNING DISTRICT PLANNING COMMISSION RESPONSE 
The Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission recommended approval of this general plan on March 
5th, 2020. 
 
 
OTHER AGENCIES RESPONSES 
Forest Service – Provided a letter (found in appendices of the plan) which says “The Plan appears to be 
consistent with the policies, guidelines, and standards for the management of National Forest System lands as 
identified in the 2003 Wasatch -Cache Revised Forest Plan”. 
Town of Brighton – Provided a recommendation and letter of support.  
UDOT – Provided verbal support at the February 2020 Public Hearing. 
 
. 
 
 
PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION 
After recent input, along with staff and legal discussion there are two minor text changes recommended.  
 
1) Staff recommends the removal of the following statements found on pages 94 and 121 “By ordinance, 
Salt Lake City is prohibited from entering into additional surplus water agreements to allow additional 
development” and replace with “Salt Lake City is not authorized to enter into additional or expanded water 
agreements in the watershed areas except as allowed under the City’s code 17.04.020.”   
 
2) Staff recommends the addition of the following statement “The County supports the study of emergency 
egress alternatives in the Canyons regarding evacuation routes in the event of natural hazards which 
could include fires, flooding, avalanches, landslides, earthquakes and others.” This section should be 
added under the Environment section goals of chapters 2-6 under “PREPARE FOR POTENTIAL 
NATURAL HAZARDS AND DISASTERS IN THE CANYONS AND FOOTHILLS.” 
 
It is Staff’s opinion that this General Plan meets all the requirements of State Code for General Plans. It is also 
staff’s opinion that the plan has gone through a rigorous public process with significant involvement by partner 
agencies and key stakeholders. The plan provides general goals with strategies, policies, and actions to provide 
the County with guidance for planning and managing the Canyons.  
 
It is staff’s recommendation that the plan be adopted with minor proposed text changes (listed above) after 
hearing public comments, discussion and vetting any concerns. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 