SALT LAKE COUNTY
Agenda Item
2001 So. State Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114
File #: 24-1341
Requested Agenda Date:
2/20/2024
Requested Agenda Title:
Consideration of Final Adoption of an Ordinance of the Legislative Body of Salt Lake County, Utah Repealing
and Replacing Title 18 of the Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances, 2001, Entitled “Subdivisions,” in Order to
Comprehensively Update the Title to Reflect State Legislative Change, Changes to the Planning and
Development Service Provider for Salt Lake County, and to Otherwise Update Salt Lake County Policy on
Subdivisions to Reflect Better Principles of Planning, Efficiency, and Affordability, and Making Other Related
Changes
Requested Agenda Item Description: Second reading and consideration of an ordinance of the legislative
body of Salt Lake County, Utah repealing and replacing Title 18 of the Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances,
2001, Entitled “Subdivisions.” Very few changes have been made to Title 18 since Salt Lake County changed
its form of government at the turn of the century, and much has taken place since then, including a major
change of government and service provider for what at that time was the unincorporated county. In addition,
SB174 was passed during the 2023 Utah Legislative Session that required certain elements be updated to Title
18 by February 1, 2024. MSD Planning, with significant input from the District Attorney’s Office and Mayor’s
Office, has prepared a comprehensive update of Salt Lake County’s subdivision ordinances.
Requested Action: Discussion - Vote Needed
Presenter(s) (with titles): Brian Tucker, Planning Manager for the MSD. Zach Shaw, Deputy District Attorney,
Salt Lake County District Attorney.
Time Needed: 5 MINS
Is this Item Time-Sensitive and/or Requesting a Time-Certain? No
Requesting Staff Member: Ryan Anderson, Program Manager - Municipal Services and Planning.
Are Supporting Documents Needed for this Agenda Item Request? Yes
SALT LAKE COUNTY Printed on 2/15/2024Page 1 of 1
powered by Legistar™