SALT LAKE COUNTY
Agenda Item
2001 So. State Street
Salt Lake City, Utah 84114
File #: 23-0956
Requested Agenda Date:
10/10/2023
Requested Agenda Title:
Budget Adjustment: Clark Planetarium requests $580,000 to remodel the Clark Planetarium Annex along 400
West at the Gateway Mall. This is a budget neutral request by utilizing under-expend from other projects,
repurposing funding from the Northrop Grumman naming rights extension, and delaying the partially funded
Mars exhibit.
Requested Agenda Item Description: This request consolidates funding into a single project to remodel the
Clark Planetarium Annex along 400 West at the Gateway Mall. In 2022, Clark Planetarium requested and was
approved for funding to expand its footprint for additional programming space and staff offices. The previously
approved budget adjustment did not provide funding to renovate the leased space. The Planetarium intended to
use existing funds for the renovation due to the low early estimates. Based on Architectural Nexus’ estimate
from August 2023, a project budget was developed in concert with Facilities Management. However, the cost to
remodel was more than anticipated.
Since the expansion is the Planetarium’s top priority, this request (1) transfers under-expend from the hearing
loops and security server projects; (2) delays the partially funded Mars exhibit; (3) repurposes funding from the
Northrop Grumman naming rights extension; and (4) transfers a small amount of equipment replacement
funding to the Annex project. The Annex project includes design, demolition, construction, permits and fees,
testing and inspections, commissioning, internal services for Facilities Management and Information Services,
furniture, fixtures, and equipment, contingency, and other services as needed to complete the remodel. This is a
net neutral request.
Requested Action: Discussion - Vote Needed
Presenter(s) (with titles): Hoa Nguyen, Council Budget and Policy Analyst
Time Needed: Less than 5 MINS
Is this Item Time-Sensitive and/or Requesting a Time-Certain? No
Requesting Staff Member: Robin Chalhoub, Community Services, Director
Are Supporting Documents Needed for this Agenda Item Request? Yes
SALT LAKE COUNTY Printed on 10/4/2023Page 1 of 1
powered by Legistar™