   
 
  
 
Forestry Recreation (FR)/Foothill Agriculture (FA) 
ORDINANCE AMENDMENT 
 
Public Body: Salt Lake County Council 
Meeting Dates:  February 6, 2024 
Request: Update to the FR and FA zoning districts to address horses and other animals 
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning Manager 
Legal Counsel: Zach Shaw 
Planning Staff Recommendation: Approval  
 
HISTORY OF ORDINANCE UPDATE 
This ordinance was first proposed in 2021 as part of a multi-part response to water quality issues found 
in many of the streams that make up the Jordan River watershed. These water quality issues resulted in a mandate 
from the State of Utah that Salt Lake County implement regulatory best management practices to improve water 
quality. These regulatory best management practices have an implementation  deadline of February 2024; this 
deadline is for adoption of regulations, not elimination of impaired status. 
An earlier draft was presented to the Salt Lake County and Mountainous Planning District Planning 
Commissions in 2021.  Public hearings were held by the Mountainous Planning District and Salt Lake County 
Planning Commissions as part of the recommendation process. A bundant public input was given during those 
hearings, resulting in significant revisions to the draft ordinance being made in response to that  public input. 
Notwithstanding these revisions, public opposition persisted.   
The epicenter of that opposition was in the Rose Canyon area, an area of the County where most residents 
live in the Hi-Country I and Hi-Country II neighborhoods. Recognizing that these citizens had only been engaged 
via the contentious public hearing process, Salt Lake County and MSD Planning staffs reached out to members of 
the Hi-Country I and II HOA boards in an attempt to better understand from a smaller, more manageable group 
of concerned citizens their precise concerns about the proposed ordinance update.  It was hoped that because 
these board members are res idents in an area where public opposition was centered, they could give the staff 
feedback on their concerns and also act as a conduit to reach out to other concerned residents in the hope that 
they too could help the staff understand their precise concerns.  A group consisting of concerned citizens from 
both Hi Country I and II  met with staff on two occasions.  Some of these citizens were HOA board members but 
the views they represented were their own, not those of either board. 
OAM2023-000944 

               Request: FR/FA Ordinance Amendment                                                                
 
 FR/FA Ordinance Amendment  Page 2 of 5 
The first meeting consisted of the staff listening to the residents’  concerns for 3 hours . After better 
understanding those concerns, Salt Lake County and MSD Planning staff made significant additional revisions to 
the proposed ordinance update in an attempt to address each concern. The revised draft ordinance was then sent 
to the residents from the first meeting and a second meeting was held to listen to and discuss the revised draft. 
These revisions are shown in Appendix B.     
As a result of the 2021 public hearings, the 2023 meetings held with concerned citizens , and a 
collaborative drafting and editing process between the Salt Lake County and MSD staff members, this proposed 
ordinance has been extensively vetted and revised.   
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROBLEMS 
A common question throughout the public comment process for the proposed ordinance amendment has 
been whether a problem exists that needs solving.  The problems with the current FR and FA ordinances have 
been manifest in the Hi Country Estates area  (a zoning map of this area can be found at the following link: 
https://gslmsd.maps.arcgis.com/apps/webappviewer/index.html?id=fe15827707de44b3b92becce08529cb3, 
but they involve ordinances that affect other areas of Unincorporated Salt Lake County.   
The primary problem driving the need for this update is  water quality mandates from the State of Utah.  
As explained in Appendix A to this staff report, the State of Utah has set a deadline for February 2024 by which 
Salt Lake County must implement non- structural (i.e., regulatory) Best Management Practices to protect waters 
from E. coli pollution, or face the prospect of penalties similar to what Salt L ake County was required to pay in 
2016 (a $280,000 fine).  Attached as Appendix A to this Staff Report is  a thorough summary of this problem 
completed by Salt Lake County Public Works.  Appendix A also refutes the misconception that horse manure does 
not contain E. coli , and clarifies that the State of Utah does not distinguish between pathogenic and non -
pathogenic E. coli in requiring Best Management Practices.     
In addition to the water quality issue that is the primary problem, there is confusion about what permits 
are required (if any) in the southwest portions of the County to have horses and other animals, what the process 
is to obtain such permits, and why the process is different depending on what zone a property owner is in. It 
appears that the understanding among Hi Country Estates property owners is that all properties are “horse” 
properties.  However, in the FR zone, where horses are a conditional use, fe w properties with horses have 
conditional use permits; in the FA zone, horses are a permitted use, so only 1 or 2 permits have been issued (for 
structures that house animals).  This confusion has been complicated by the fact that exemptions to permitting 
requirements for agricultural buildings have been built into Utah code. Unfortunately, Code Enforcement staff is 
placed in a situation that puts the County at risk of selective enforcement claims and creates the potential of 
hostility between neighbors when some property owners are following County ordinance, while others are not.  
The proposed ordinance provides a clearer, streamlined process for property owners to obtain a permit in a way 
that addresses concerns about water quality and nuisances to neighbors who have complained to Code 
Enforcement staff for years.     
Third, there has been a history of complaints to Code Enforcement staff by neighbors of horse owners, 
regarding nuisances caused by horse owners.  The proposed ordinance requires a manure management plan and 
other measures to address these concerns.   
Finally, it should be noted that many complaints to Code Enforcement staff have focused on commercial 
uses related to horses, such as boarding and trail riding.  After receiving significant public input on this issue, and 
further engaging with residents in the Hi Country area, the proposed ordinance update also clarifies this issue.      
 
               Request: FR/FA Ordinance Amendment                                                                
 
 FR/FA Ordinance Amendment  Page 3 of 5 
 In summary, if the County does nothing to update its FR/FA ordinances, the following will likely 
occur:   
1. Salt Lake County will be subject to enforcement actions by the State of Utah for failure to implement 
regulatory Best Management Practices to protect waters from E. coli.  Salt Lake County was previously 
required to pay a $280,000 fine for failure to adequately address clean water problems in its stormwater 
regulation programs.  The State’s mandate to implement regulatory Best Management Practices to 
protect waters from E. coli is a follow-up to its enforcement actions that resulted in the $280,000 fine.   
2. Property owners in the FR Zone will have to go through a more expensive, time -consuming conditional 
use process to obtain a permit than property owners in the nearby FA Zone.  The expensive, time-
consuming conditional use process becomes an incentive to not come into compliance, resulting in some 
property owners who are compliant and others that are not, and further contributing to neighbor 
disputes. This situation also places the County at risk for accusations of selective enforcement;   
3. Continued complaints will be made to Code Enforcement and MSD Planning staff regarding animal 
nuisances and commercial uses involving animals in the FR and FA zones. 
 
DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED ORDINANCE UPDATE 
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
 
The draft ordinance attached as Appendix C to this Staff Report is the latest draft of the proposed ordinance.  The 
draft ordinance provides for the following:   
 
It modifies the current FR ordinance as follows: 
1. Horse/animal use is modified to be a permitted (not conditional) use, which is a more streamlined process 
than the current conditional use process.   
2. More objective criteria are added to the current ordinance. For example, property owners are allowed 2 
horses per acre unless there is a stream present, in which case a maximum of 4 total horses is 
allowed.  The horses per acre calculation excludes from acreage areas with steep slopes. 
3. If streams are present on or adjoining a property, a 100’ setback for perennial streams and a 50’ setback 
for ephemeral streams is required between streams and areas that house animals.  The stream setbacks 
in the proposed ordinance will only apply to new structures.  Stream setbacks (ephemeral or perennial) 
could be further reduced by 25% if property owners established a vegetated riparian corridor.  The 
riparian corridor is not mandatory unless the property owner wants a reduced setback. 
4. A manure management plan is required with each application, which addresses mitigation of stormwater 
runoff, odor, and flies. 
5. All property owners who have or wish to have animals will be required to obtain a land use permit.  In 
most cases, this will be an inexpensive streamlined process, and not the conditional use process that is 
currently required in the FR zone .  Permits will run with the land, so subsequent property owners need 
not obtain another permit.  Current permits are recognized notwithstanding ordinance changes. 
6. Commercial boarding of horses is permitted so long as the other requirements of the ordinance are met.  
Trail riding businesses are not allowed.   
 
The drafted ordinance keeps the current FA ordinance as is (including a streamlined permitted use process and 4 
horse limit for personal use), with the following additions: 
               Request: FR/FA Ordinance Amendment                                                                
 
 FR/FA Ordinance Amendment  Page 4 of 5 
1. A 100’ setback (for perennial streams) and 50’ setback (for ephemeral streams)  is required  for new 
structures if a stream is present per #3 above; 
2. Applicants must submit a Manure Management Plan per #4 above; 
3. All property owners who have or wish to have animals will be required to obtain a land use permit per # 
5 above, which will run with the land.  Current permits are recognized per #5 above. 
 
CLARIFICATION ON PUBLIC MISCONCEPTIONS 
Proposed stream setbacks have little or no impact on existing structures (fences, corrals, barns, etc.): 
• Proposed stream setbacks only apply to new structures, so existing structures are not impacted by the 
proposed ordinance. 
Proposed animal limits have little or no impact on existing animals: 
• In Hi Country II, primarily zoned FA, the current limit of 4 horses per lot will not change. The keeping of up to 
4 horses per lot will remain a permitted use. If residents currently have more than 4 horses in FA zone, that is 
unlawful under current ordinance; the proposed ordinance does not change that.   
• The 4 horse limit in FR zoned property with streams will have little impact in Hi Country II because most of 
that area is zoned FA, which already has a 4 horse limit.  The 4 horse limit in FR zoned property with streams 
will have little to no impact in Hi Country I because that area does not appear to have streams. 
• In Hi Country I, primarily zoned FR, properties with a current conditional use permit will be subject to the 
limits in that permit, so the number limits in the proposed ordinance will not impact those properties.  
Properties without a current conditional use permit will no longer be required to obtain a costly conditional 
use permit, but must only obtain a simple administrative permit that is subject to a limit of 2 horses per ½ net 
developable acre, which is based on the standard in nearby Herriman.   
• Where a property owner currently has other animals in either zone, the County already regulates those 
animals as “Family Food Production”. The proposed ordinance does not change the existing “Family Food 
Production” definition or regulations. If the animals a property owner has under the current code are legal, 
they will remain legal if the proposed ordinance is adopted. If the animals a property owner has under the 
current code are unlawful, they will remain unlawful if the proposed ordinance is adopted. 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS 
The Salt Lake County Planning Commission held a public hearing on the proposed ordinance on October 11, 2023 
and took public comment on the ordinance during their public meeting on December 13, 2023. The Salt Lake 
County Planning Commission recommended that the Salt Lake County Council approve the ordinance amending 
Title 19. 
The Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission held a public hearing on the proposed ordinance on 
October 19, 2023 and took public comment on the ordinance during their public meeting on December 21, 2023. 
The Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission recommended that the Salt Lake County Council approve 
the ordinance amending Title 19. 
               Request: FR/FA Ordinance Amendment                                                                
 
 FR/FA Ordinance Amendment  Page 5 of 5 
The following cleanup of the proposed ordinance has taken place as a result of planning commission 
recommendations and to provide clarification on questions that came up during the planning commission review.  
These changes are reflected in the final draft ordinance, which is attached hereto as Appendix C.  
1. Manure management plan need only address clean -up and deposit of manure during warm weather 
seasons (because manure freezes during the winter).  See sections 19.12.020(F)(6)(a), 19.12.030(G)(4)(a), 
19.54.020(C)(6)(a)(cold weather language eliminated).   
2. C larification that a permit is required even if a property owner has existing animals that are a legal 
nonconforming use.  See sections 19.12.020(F)(9), 19.54.020(C)(8)(reference to section 19.88.080 added). 
3. Elimination of water authority approval as a condition of permit approval; instead require simple 
notification of water authority.  See sections 19.12.020(F)(8), 19.12.030(G)(5), 19.54.020(C)(7). 
4. Clarification that the proposed ordinance applies to areas that are not in a protected watershed (County 
Health Department regulations apply to animals in a protected  watershed).  See  section 
19.12.030(G)(1)(addition of the word “protected”). 
 
STAFF RECOMMENDATION 
Staff wishes to emphasize this staff report’s (including Appendix A’s) outline of water quality concerns 
and the risks to Salt Lake County for failure to address those concerns in an ordinance update.  That, combined 
with ongoing enforcement problems , compels Staff to recommend approval of the draft ordinance update.   
Appendix C is a clean blackline draft of the proposed ordinance, showing how the final proposed ordinance differs 
from the current Salt Lake County Code. Staff has reviewed the proposed ordinance and finds that it: 
1. Complies with applicable State Code; 
2. Serves to protect the public health, safety, or welfare; and 
3. Upholds the vision of the adopted West General Plan, which among other things calls for private property 
rights on the West Bench (including Hi Country) to be balanced with regional goals of conserving critical 
lands, water, and open space, and integrating water resource planning and land use decisions.  
4. Has been recommended for approval by the Salt Lake County Planning Commission. 
5. Has been recommended for approval by the Mountainous Planning District Planning Commission 
Appendices 
Appendix A:  Salt Lake County Public Works’ Analysis of Clean Water Problem 
Appendix B:  Proposed Ordinance’s redline revisions resulting from meetings with Hi-Country HOA Boards 
Appendix C:  Proposed Ordinance blackline revisions showing changes from current Salt Lake County Code 
 