 
 
   
 
Planning and Development Services 
2001 S. State Street N3-600 • Salt Lake City, UT 84190-4050 
Phone: (385) 468-6700  •  Fax: (385) 468-6674 
msd.utah.gov 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
Zoning Map Amendment 
Public Body: Salt Lake County Council 
Parcel ID: Portions of 20-06-100-001 and 20-06-200-001 
Current Zone: A-20 (Agricultural Zone)    
Property Address: 4098 South 8400 West (Legal Address) Approximately 4 400 South 9200 West  
(Actual Location) 
Request: Amend the Zoning Map from A-20 (Agricultural Zone) to M-2 (Manufacturing Zone) to allow 
the existing rocket motor manufacturing to expand on 35 acres. The area proposed for rezone includes 
the entire area to be disturbed. 
 
Planner: Brian Tucker 
Date of Report: April 15, 2022 
Applicant Name: Northrop Grumman (Douglas Farley, Representative) 
 
SITE & VICINITY DESCRIPTION 
 
 
File # REZ2022-000535 

Request: Rezone       File #:REZ 2022-000535 
 
Rezone Summary  Page 2 of 10 
The project area is located about 0.7 miles south and west of the Magna Township Boundary and 2.5 
miles south of Magna Main Street. The project is at the north end of an existing Northrop Grumman 
Plant and is an extension of the existing rocket motor assembly line. The legal address for this portion of 
the plant is 4098 West 8400 West, but the actual location is at approximately 4400 South and 9200 West. 
This existing plant is located to the west of the Northrop Grumman Facility, which was formerly known 
as the Hercules Bacchus Plant. 
 
PROJECT BACKGROUND AND DESCRIPTION 
 
 
Hercules, Inc. established the Bacchus Works in 1915 as a producer of commercial blasting powder.  The 
plant was renovated into a modern solid rocket propulsion facility in 1958 with research, development, 
and production capability. In June 2018, Northrop Grumman Corporation acquired the Bacchus facility, 
which they operate under a subsidiary known as ATK Launch Systems.  
 
The Bacchus facility occupies about 10,000 acres within West Valley City and unincorporated Salt  
Lake County. The facility includes over 400 buildings  that are used to produce and prepare propellant 
ingredients, manufacture solid propellants, and produce solid propellant rocket motors.  It is located 
south of the Magna Township, about 18 miles southwest of Salt Lake City. Plant 1 (Bacchus East) and the 

Request: Rezone       File #:REZ 2022-000535 
 
Rezone Summary  Page 3 of 10 
Naval Industrial Reserve Ordnance Plant (NIROP) are located in West Valley. Bacchus West straddles the 
boundary between West Valley City and unincorporated Salt Lake County, with most of the plant located 
to the south and west of Magna and in unincorporated Salt Lake County.  
 
The facilities that comprise Bacchus are owned or leased, and are operated by ATK Launch Systems, a 
subsidiary of Northrop Grumman Innovation Systems.  The NIROP facility is owned by the United States 
Navy and is operated by ATK Launch Systems as an integral part of the facility.  Plant 1 and a portion of 
the Bacchus West facilities are owned by ATK Launch Systems . Much of the Bacchus West property is 
owned by and leased from the Kennecott Utah Copper Corporation. 
 
PROPOSAL 
Northrop Grumman is the only builder of a rocket motor  of this type of product. F acing increased 
demand, they are looking to  both upgrade the existing Bacchus facility and  increase their production 
capacity by building additional buildings for storage and manufacturing. Some of these buildings will be 
in West Valley City but nine significant buildings are proposed in unincorporated Salt Lake County. Four 
of these buildings are located within the footprint of the current plant , but the remaining five are 
proposed for the area north of the existing assembly line as they are an addition to that assembly line. 
These five buildings are proposed to be in an area that is currently in the Agriculture Zone (A-20). Rocket 
motor manufacturing is not a use allowed in the A -20 zone. The existing plant is located in the  
Manufacturing (M -2) Zone . The applicant is requesting the same Manufacturing (M -2) Zone for the 
proposed rezone area. The proposed rezone area is 35 acres, an area that includes all five of the buildings 
as well as the entire area to be disturbed, as a significant amount of grading will be required.  
 

Request: Rezone       File #:REZ 2022-000535 
 
Rezone Summary  Page 4 of 10 
The requested rezone would allow Northrop Grumman to expand the capacity of the existing rocket 
motor facility along the west bench. The expanded plant would continue to produce the same rocket 
motors as the existing plant but with expanded capacity.  
 
Northrop Grumman has chosen this location  in the Bacchus West portion of the plant, north of the 
existing production line, primarily due to the existing manufacturing capabilities for the type of rocket 
motor they plan to manufacture there. The company has evaluated placing the additional capacity in 
the Plant 1 area of the facility east of Bacchus Highway and at other locations, both in-state and out-of-
state. The reason this location has been chosen is that the company is looking to expand its existing 
operation rather than create a new operation. Other locations lack what the existing operation has in 
equipment, buildings a nd a trained and experience work force that would be difficult and costly to 
replicate elsewhere.  
 
Locating the new facilities in the Plant 1 area of the Bacchus facility would preserve the existing trained 
and experienced work force, but it does not bene fit from the existing capacity and its automated 
manufacturing and ingredient transport systems that already exist at the proposed location. Locating 
the new capabilities in the Plant 1 area requires significantly more infrastructure and would likely have 
to be located closer to residential areas than the proposed site. It would also increase risk related to 
operations given that Northrup Grumman would need to transport live energetic product from the 
existing Bacchus West location across the Bacchus H ighway and through the plant. This not only 
increases the risk to the public, but the increased distance allows the product to set up in the transport 
before it has an opportunity to be cast.  
 
The area west of the existing manufacturing line is too steep, would require that more area be disturbed, 
and would be much more costly due to the requirement to lift ingredients and motor components up 
the side of the mountain. The area to the east of the existing line is encumbered by a slurry line owned 
by Kennecott an d is the future location of road and trail facilities identified by the 2022 Draft West  
General Plan. The area south of the existing plant is at the wrong end of the manufacturing line and 
would create access problems due to the location of Coon Canyon Road. As a result, Northrop Grumman 
has determined that the best location for the added capacity is at the north end of the existing facility 
as it can be located at the same elevation as the existing mix/cast facilities and utilize the existing  
automated transport facilities. According to Northrop Grumman, t his location offers the best solution 
for transferring propellant from a mixing facility to a casting facility. 
 
The five significant buildings within the proposed rezone area will be used for the casting  of the liquid 
fuels into the rocket casings and cured into the solid fuel rocket motors that are the product of this plant. 
This work is done in two casting/curing buildings to accommodate tipping the unfilled rocket motor on 
end, in an 80’ deep pit, for fuel to be cast. The fuel then cures into a rubber like state. After curing, the 
motor is then transported to the Finishing building, located wit hin the West Valley City portion of the 
plant. The Propellent Manufacturing Control House is the location where the employees control the 
work in the casting/curing buildings. The Core Storage Building and Boiler House are part of the 
casting/curing operations. While the Bacchus Facility does produce rocket motors with highly explosive 
fuels, the motors that will be manufactured in the area proposed to be rezoned use a much less explosive 
fuel than the fuel the overpressure zone is based on . Consequently, e xpansion of the  existing plant 
operations and manufacturing line to the north, into the area proposed to be rezoned  will not 
necessitate amending the overpressure zone.  The overpressure zone can be found in Salt Lake County 
Request: Rezone       File #:REZ 2022-000535 
 
Rezone Summary  Page 5 of 10 
Code Chapter 15.14 and addresse s the risk of accidental explosion.  No intentional explosi ons will take 
place in the area that is proposed to be rezoned. 
 
The Planning Commission has made a recommendation to  approve the rezone to  the County Council, 
the decision -making body for zoning amendments. If the rezone request is approved  by the County 
Council, the applicant will then need to pursue a conditional use permit for approval of the use and site 
plan. 
 
PLANNING STAFF ANALYSIS 
General Plan:  
The 2007 Draft West Bench General Plan was not adopted, and it is not clear that any other general plan 
covers this area. The MSD and Salt Lake County are nearing the end of a process to adopt a Salt Lake 
County West General Plan. The Draft Salt Lake Count y West General Plan has some proposed land use, 
transportation and preservation policies and goals that have implications in the project area.  
 
The proposed future land use map identifies the project area as appropriate for Master Planned 
Communities with densities of 4-6 units per acre. Two aspects of this are important to note, first that 
this is only a draft plan; and second, these areas are identified for “Limited Development Until Post Mine 
Closure (2040+)”. Furthermore, the nearest residentially zoned area is approximately 3/4 of a mile away, 
in an area more suited to development than the hillside area in question. Rio Tinto Kennecott is the 
owner of the land now and likely will be in 2040 and beyond. They have granted Northrop Grumman 
permission to m ake this application . Future residential use of the Oquirrh foothills is a long-term 
possibility rather than a near term certainty as long as the mining and other industrial uses that 
characterize this portion of the county remain viable.  
 
A future “Oquirrh Blvd” is on the current 2019-2050 Regional Transportation Plan (RTP) adopted by the 
Wasatch Front Regional Council . This future road is located to the east at a lower elevation tha n the 
existing Northrop Grumman assembly line and the proposed extension of the assembly line. The 
proposed Bonneville Shoreline Trail alignment is also located to the east and at a lower elevation than 
the rezone area. As a result, n o transportation issues identified by the dra ft plan are expected to be 
affected by the proposed rezone. 
 
One of the most important conservation topics identified by the draft West General Plan is watershed. 
The buffering of industrial uses from potential recreation uses and the ecological reclamation of current 
industrial and mining sites  are also topics identified in the draft West General Plan. The buffering and 
reclamation issues a re longer range concerns as the industrial and mining activities are ongoing, and 
residential and recreational uses are not currently present near the project area. 
 
Zoning:  
Northrop Grumman proposes to expand their operations on the property that is currently zoned A -20 
(Agriculture Zone). The A-20 zone does not allow rocket motor manufacturing or anything that could in 
any way be construed to include rocket motor manufacturing. Most of the existing plant is zoned M -2, 
a zone that does  not specifically include rocket motor manufacturing but does include “ manufacture, 
fabrication, assembly, compounding, packaging, processing, treatment, storage and maintenance of” 
“Airplanes and parts”, among other uses. This “airplanes and parts” manufacturing use is a permitted 
Request: Rezone       File #:REZ 2022-000535 
 
Rezone Summary  Page 6 of 10 
use in the M-2 (but industrial developments over one acre are conditional uses) . There is no other use 
that closely resembles what the applicants intend . When this is the case , Salt Lake County and its 
Planning Director are empowered to make an administrative determination for uses that are not listed 
but are of a similar nature to uses that are. There is very little historical information available about the 
initial permitting of the existing plant, but it was likely allowed through the conditional use process. 
 
A rezone to M -2 is a necessity for the project to move forward and this is a legislative decision for the 
Salt Lake County Council. The Council ’s decision is the key decision for any expansion of the plant that 
includes the 35 acres proposed for rezone. An approval clears the way for the applicant to apply for land 
use permits and other regulatory permits. There are portions of the project that are within the footprint 
of the current plant and have the zoning necessary, though it is not clear if the project can be viable 
without a rezone that includes the 35 acres in question.  
 
A rezone can include conditions, but those conditions are generally limited to the uses allowed in the 
zone and those pertaining to density, square footage, and height. 
 
Conditional Use Permit Required: 
If the rezone is approved , the applicant will then be required to apply for a conditional use permit  for 
site plan approval of an industrial project over one acre. While there is a limit to the conditions that can 
be placed on a rezone, the conditions that can be placed on a conditional use permit are not so limited 
in scope. At the time of conditional use permit review, if a legitimate detrimental effect of the proposed 
land use can be identified, a reasonable condition can be imposed to mitigate that detrimental effect.  
 
Overpressure Zone: 
The existing overpressure areas were established based on a type of material used for a certain type of 
rocket. The overpressure areas are based on activities at specific locations within the Bacchus Plant that 
are used to produce rocket motors using materials that are designated as “ mass detonation hazards.” 
These high hazard materials can cause an overpressure shock front and fragment generation. The rocket 
motors that Northrop Grumman is currently building (and will build) in Unincorporated Salt Lake County, 
including the rezone area,  are of a different type that have been excluded from the “high hazard” 
definition because, while they are a significant fire hazard, they are only a minor blast hazard. These 
rocket motors use materials that are not a mass detonation hazard associated with overpressure and 
fragmentation. (See attachment #8, Bacchus Plant Overpressure Rings in relation to Proposed Energetic 
Facility Construction Memo) 
 
Air Quality and other Environmental Impacts: 
Air quality and other environmental concerns have been identified as potential detrimental effects both 
during a potential construction phase of the project and the longer-term operation of the plant. 
 
The mass gra ding of any project, industrial or residential , carries with it concerns about air  and water 
quality due to the movement of soils and removal of vegetative cover. Blowing winds, flowing water and 
the movement of machines can displace soils, causing air and water pollution. Storm Water Pollution 
Prevention Plans (SWPPP) and Fugitive Dust Control Plans are required by the State of Utah to ensure 
that the applicant uses best management practices to control air qualit y and water pollution that may 
result from construction activities. Penalties for violations of the plans can be imposed if these plans are 
Request: Rezone       File #:REZ 2022-000535 
 
Rezone Summary  Page 7 of 10 
violated. These plans must be in place for the entirety of the construction portion of a project and in 
some instances are required for the life of the facility. 
 
The Bacchus Facility has air quality, water quality, waste, and hazardous waste permits through the Utah 
Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ). DEQ monitors and licenses air and water quality as well as 
waste and hazardous waste. These existing permits will need to be amended with DEQ in conjunction 
with this project. The existing plant has a permit to store hazardous waste at three locations at its current 
plant, all three of which are located within the West Valley City portion of the plant. The Environmental 
Protection Agency and Federal Aviation Administration also regulate the aerospace industry. 
 
Flood Control and Grading: 
Several potential flood control and grading issues  have been identified during the initial process of 
evaluating the proposed expansion.  
 
The proposed plant will require nearly two (2) million cubic yards of cut and 75 thousand cubic yards of 
fill. The excess soil from the site grading of the current facility was stored within the project area. This 
soil will be removed, along with significant grading of the hillside. The project will r equire the removal 
of a portion of the hillside that at its greatest extent will result in an elevation change of nearly 160 feet. 
The resulting slope will have a 200 -foot drop over a distance of 300 feet, resulting in a 33.69-degree 
slope. By way of comparison, this slope is the same as a roof pitch of 8/12. This finished grade is steeper 
than most of the existing hillside and will need to be re -vegetated to control erosion.  The proposed 
storage area for the excess materiel is to the east of the exist ing manufacturing line. (See Attachment 
#7, Grading Plan) 
 
The plant is proposed to be constructed across an ephemeral stream that will then need to be relocated, 
channelized, or piped. Additionally, the newly hardscaped ground and rooftops will create add itional 
runoff that will need to be mitigated by on -site detention or by some other permitted means. A very 
preliminary discussion took place between Salt Lake County Flood Control, Salt Lake County Engineering, 
and the Metropolitan Service District Storm Water and Grading Divisions during the initial conversations 
about what information was needed to evaluate the proposed rezone. There are significant challenges; 
however, to date there is no indication that these potential impacts cannot be mitigated throu gh the 
permitting process. These agencies will all be involved in permitting for any grading or construction that 
occurs within the existing plant and any expansion of the plant.  
 
Permits such as Storm Water Pollution Prevention (SWPPP), Phase I and II En vironmental Studies, 
Grading, Stream Alteration Permits, and potentially 404 permits from the Army Corps of Engineers may 
be required based on the extent and specifics of the project. These permits will rely on civil engineering 
drawings, including geotechnical studies and slope stability analyses. These permits and studies will be 
part of the land use permit and building permit activities.  
 
Fire and Fire Code: 
The rocket motors built in the existing facility are the same as those proposed for the expanded facility. 
While the rocket fuel is highly flammable, it is not a mass detonation hazard. Unified Fire Authority has 
not identified any special concerns and have indicated that they expect a typical permit review process. 
 
Transportation: 
Request: Rezone       File #:REZ 2022-000535 
 
Rezone Summary  Page 8 of 10 
Transportation access for this site is primarily 8400 West (S.R 111/Bacchus Highway). The route passes 
through the plant between the West Bacchus and Plant 1 areas. 4100 South and 5400 South are along 
the north and south plant boundaries and may provide additional access to the site. Finally, a  railroad 
spur provides rail service to the Bacchus Plant. 
 
Economic Development/New Jobs:  
Northrop Grumman will invest $450 million dollars in expanding the existing manufacturing line. 
Northrop Grumman is the only manufacturer of this type of rocket motor and the demand for these 
motors has increased significantly. This additional manufacturing capability will allow the co mpany to 
triple the number of rocket motors they are able to build. The construction efforts will utilize local firms 
and most of the $450 million dollars will be spent within the Salt Lake County and the State of Utah. 
When complete, the expanded and upgraded production line will create up to 400 new long-term, high-
tech manufacturing jobs.  
 
Community Concerns: 
It is anticipated that there may be concerns from residents regarding a variety of issues, including traffic, 
dust, and noise pollution, together with the risk of explosions. There will likely be additional truck and 
even employee related traffic, the effects of which can be measured by requiring a traffic impact study. 
It could be expected that the noise and dust impa cts of the proposed pla nt will be similar to existing 
impacts since the proposed uses are an extension of the existing activities. Dust from construction 
activities of the plant addition can be mitigated by SWPPP regulations and inspections, and noise can be 
mitigated by County Health department regulations and inspections.  As the overpressure area will not 
need to be amended, concerns from residents and developers  about the risk of explosions  should not 
be an issue. 
 
If the County rezones the property  to make way for the project, the applicant still needs a conditional 
use permit. This conditional use permit can include conditions intended to mitigate legitimate 
detrimental effects identified by the public. 
 
Notice: 
Notice has been given in accordance with Utah Code 17-27a-205 and Salt Lake County Code 19.90.020. 
Notice was mailed to each affected entity and property owner at least 10 calendar days before the public 
hearing. Notice was posted on the County’s official website, on the Utah Public Notice Website, and in 
three public locations  at the Salt Lake County Government Center . Physical Notice was posted on the 
parcel in accordance with Salt Lake County Code 19.90.020.B. (See Attachment #10, Proof of Notice) 
 
Review Procedure and Criteria:  
The Salt Lake County Council is the land use authority for zoning map amendments. The County Council 
cannot amend the zoning map without first submitting the amendment to the Salt Lake County Planning 
Commission for the Planning Co mmission’s recommendation. The Planning Commission held a public 
hearing on April 13, 2022 and  has recommended approval of the rezone  to the County Council. The 
County Council must then hold a public hearing, after which they may adopt, adopt with revisions, or 
reject the zoning map amendment recommended by the Planning Commission.  
 
A rezone can be approved  if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could promote the public 
welfare. It is not necessary to show that the decision actually promotes the public welfare, or is the best 
Request: Rezone       File #:REZ 2022-000535 
 
Rezone Summary  Page 9 of 10 
alternative, as long as it is reasonably debatable that the public could benefit from the decision. Similarly, 
a rezone can  be denied if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could detrimentally impact the 
public welfare.  
 
CONCLUSIONS 
Northrop Grumman has settled on the proposed site deliberately, based on the existing infrastructure, 
existing capabilities, and existing workforce. The site they have chosen has technical challenges that will 
need to be overcome. These challenges include significant grading challenges that will need to be 
addressed in a manner that ensures slope stability and re -vegetation. Flood control,  runoff, site 
retention and the mitigation of an existing ephemeral stream will require extensive work with Salt Lake 
County’s Flood Control and Engineering Departments, as well as the MSD’s Storm Water and Grading 
Division.  The chosen site will require Northrop Grumman to overcome significant air and water quality 
issues during the construction, although any large project faces these challenges to some degree.  
 
Knowing these challenges, Northrop Grumman evaluated locating the additional capacity in West Valley 
City, where a rezone is not required, but still chose this site due to the exi sting infrastructure and 
manufacturing line west of S. R. 111/Bacchus Highway. The technical challenges with any other site on 
the west side of S. R. 111 were evaluated to be greater than the proposed site and bring less benefit 
than the proposed location. The impacts associated with the proposed site are significant, as are the 
benefits to creating up to 400 long -term high -tech manufacturing job s, along with many short-term 
construction jobs. A conditional use permit would be required, should the county choose to rezone the 
property. This conditional use permit can include conditions  to mitigate the foreseeable detrimental 
effects of the proposed use. 
 
PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION  
On April 13, 2022, the Salt Lake County Planning Commission held a public hearing on the proposed 
rezone. After having seen a presentation from MSD Staff, questioning Staff and the applicant, and giving 
the public an opportunity to comment on the application, the Planning Commission recommended that 
the County Council Approve the rezone. 
 
POTENTIAL COUNTY COUNCIL ACTIONS AND PLANNING STAFF RECOMMENDATION  
The County Council is the legislative body charged with making policy decisions. The County Council has 
a recommendation of approval from the Planning Commission and may now take legislative action on a 
land use regulation. The County Council can now follow the Planning Commissions recommendation and 
approve of the rezone, approve of the rezone with conditions, deny the request for the rezone, or table 
the application if further i nformation is needed.  Any decision made by the Co uncil should address 
specific reasons that the decision advances and serves the public welfar e, or conversely, negatively 
impacts the public welfare. 
 
As noted above, a rezone can be approved or denied if it is reasonably debatable that the decision could 
either promote – or negatively impact - the public welfare. At this point, the Planning Staff is not making 
a specific recommendation for approval or denial of the proposed rezone, but rather is taking a “neutral” 
stance. This is due to our determination that this rezone application requires a policy decision as to 
Request: Rezone       File #:REZ 2022-000535 
 
Rezone Summary  Page 10 of 10 
whether the potential “benefits” to the public welfare outweigh the corresponding potential negative 
impacts and whether any such negative impacts can be reasonably mitigated.   
 
Attachments: 
1. Rezone Exhibit 
2. Rezone Request Letter 
3. Rezone Legal Description 
4. Northrop Grumman Bacchus Works Master Plan 
5. Rezone Area Site Plan 
6. Building Footprints 
7. Grading Plan 
8. Bacchus Plant Overpressure Rings in relation to Proposed Energetic Facility Construction Memo 
9. Location Justification Letter 
10. Proof of Notice 
M2 -
Manufacturing
Zone
A20 -
Agricultural
Zone
Area of Rezone
(Hatched) from
A20 to M2
1,547,053 SF or
35.5 Acres
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2/11/2022 
 
Salt Lake County 
County Zoning Official 
   
 
RE: Land Zoning Proposal 
 
Dear Zoning Official: 
 
Northrop Grumman Company is requesting to change 35.5 acres of land located 
north of our current facility that is zoned as A20- Agriculture to M2-Industrial to 
allow us to expand our aircraft motor manufacturing line.  
 
Respectfully yours 
 
Northrop Grumman Corporation, Space Systems 
 
 
 
Doug Farley PE SE 
Sr. Principal Structural Engineer – Energetics Manufacturing 
Douglas.farley@ngc.com  
385-418-2416 
 
 
Northrop Grumman February 18, 2022
Zoning Description
Land being a part of the North Half of Section 6, Township 2 South, Range 2 West, Salt 
Lake Base and Meridian, U.S. Survey, in Salt Lake County, Utah:
Beginning at a point on the South line of said North Half, located 1425.27 feet North 
89°55’56” East along the Quarter Section line from a point described of record as being a 
copper plug in a marked stone marking the West Quarter Corner of said Section 6; and running 
thence North 0°14’28” East 513.61 feet to a point on a curve; thence Northeasterly along the 
arc of a 4048.00 foot radius curve to the right a distance of 139.71 feet (Center bears South 
19°07’52” East, Central Angle equals 1°58’39” and Long Chord bears North 71°51’27” East 
139.70 feet) to a point on a curve; thence Northeasterly along the arc of a 425.00 foot radius 
curve to the right a distance of 634.81 (Center bears South 86°16’47” East, Central Angle 
equals 85°34’50” and Long Chord bears North 46°30’38” East 577.42 feet); thence North 
89°19’16” East 266.30 feet; thence North 77°05’57” East 684.02 feet; thence South 16°52’32” 
East 252.67 feet; thence South 8°52’27” East 222.73 feet; thence South 27°02’20” East 241.31 
feet; thence South 8°18’52” East 436.08 feet to said Quarter Section Line; thence South 
89°55’56” West 1767.33 feet along said Quarter Section Line to the point of beginning.
Contains 1,547,053 sq. ft.
Or 35.515 acres
FOR REVIEW
N
ISSUED FOR ESTIMATING
ISSUED FOR ESTIMATING
FOR REVIEW
Cut/Fill SummaryNamecut and fill Pad OnlyTotalsCut Factor1.000Fill Factor1.0002d Area615551.21 Sq. Ft.615551.21 Sq. Ft.Cut1000528.54 Cu. Yd.1000528.54 Cu. Yd.Fill30091.80 Cu. Yd.30091.80 Cu. Yd.Net970436.74 Cu. Yd.<Cut>970436.74 Cu. Yd.<Cut>Cut/Fill SummaryNamecut and fill TotalTotalsCut Factor1.000Fill Factor1.0002d Area1013764.20 Sq. Ft.1013764.20 Sq. Ft.Cut1925157.39 Cu. Yd.1925157.39 Cu. Yd.Fill74194.40 Cu. Yd.74194.40 Cu. Yd.Net1850963.00 Cu. Yd.<Cut>1850963.00 Cu. Yd.<Cut>

 
Page | 1  
 
Memo 
To:  Douglas Farley 
From:  Adam Holloway 
Date:  24 February 2022  
Subject: Bacchus Plant Overpressure Rings in Relation to Proposed Energetic Facility 
Construction 
CC:  Kyle Kruger, Bernard Price, Dan Sanders 
 
 
Due to a planned production quantity increase for the GEM 63XL solid rocket motor program, a series 
of new facilities are planned for construction at the Bacchus Plant to support this effort. This includes: 
• AP Storage 
• Case prep 3 
• Cast cure 3 and 4 
• Control house 
• Finishing 8 
• HTPB Tank Farm 
• Mix Bowl Cleaning 4 
• NDT4 
• Ship 6 
• Slid Storage 
• Transporter Maintenance Facility 
• Case manufacturing 3 lane 
 
As a result of the hazards associated with operations conducted at the Bacchus plant to manufacture 
solid rocket motors and propellant, Northrop Grumman has provided information on 0.5 psi, 0.3 psi, 
and 0.2 psi overpressure zones based on the locations of high hazard operations. 
 
There are two primary designations for solid propellant rocket motors manufactured at the Bacchus 
Facility, Class 1.1 and Class 1.3. These designations are a part of the United Nations Globally 
Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling Chemicals (GHS). Under this designation, a class 
1.1 material is any material determined through a specified test series, which is a mass detonation 
hazard. The resulting effects are an overpressure shock front and fragment generation. A class 1.3 
material is a mass fire hazard with only minor blast hazard but not a mass detonation hazard. [1] 
 
Based on the lack of a mass detonation hazard associated with Class 1.3 materials, they have been 
excluded from definition of a “high hazard” material and in general, have little to no impact on 
overpressure in an initiation event. The primary hazard is a heat flux. Department of Defense Manual 
4145.26 states the following about Class 1.3 materials, “Explosions will normally be confined to 
pressure ruptures of containers and will not produce propagating shock waves or damaging blast 
overpressure beyond magazine distance.”  
 
 
Page | 2  
 
This determination is consistent with past overpressure zone assessments and the Northrop 
Grumman internally designated “high hazard operation” specification. In any initiation scenario 
involving Class 1.3 materials such as a GEM 63XL rocket motor, the property boundary of the 
Bacchus plant and location of Class 1.3 facilities therein as specified by DOD 4145.26 is sufficient 
protection from the hazards of such materials. [2]  
 
 
Adam Holloway 
Hazards Analysis 
 
 
 
 
REFERENCES 
[1] United Nations, “Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals 
(GHS)”, Fourth revised edition, New York and Geneva, 2011 
[2]  DoD 4145.26m, Contractors Safety Manual for Ammunition and Explosives, August 31, 2018 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3/1/2022 
 
Salt Lake County 
County Zoning Official 
   
 
RE: Land Zoning Proposal 
 
Dear Zoning Official: 
 
Northrop Grumman Corporation is requesting to chang e 35.5 acres of land north of our current 
facility that is zoned as A20-Agriculture to M2-Ind ustrial to allow us to expand our rocket motor 
manufacturing line. 
 
The company has selected this location after an extensive study of the surrounding area and 
our campus and manufacturing needs. The new facilities we are planning must be located west 
of Bacchus highway (UT-111), which is adjacent to the location where similar operations are 
currently performed in accordance with current state approval. Relocating these operations to 
the land east of UT-111 would change the current use of that portion of our site and would not 
work with the automated manufacturing and ingredient transport systems that we have in place 
on the west side of UT-111 and require significantly more infrastructure and bring such 
energetic operations closer to surrounding neighboring communities. 
 
Our studies of alternate locations show that if we placed the new proposed manufacturing facilities 
to the west, the elevation cause insurmountable pro blems for the automated manufacturing and 
ingredient transport systems. If they were placed to the east, the existing Kennecott slurry line is 
a problem as we could not build there. Coon Canyon Road is south – so we cannot build south 
without causing an access problem. Building on the north end of our facilities makes the most 
sense so that the elevation is the same as our exis ting propellant mix/cast facilities, which is the 
best solution for transferring propellant from a propellant mixing facility to a casting facility. 
 
 
Northrop Grumman strongly believes the proposed location on the north of our existing production 
line enables us to tie into our current production line most efficiently and will achieve the highest 
level of safety and least intrusion into the surrounding properties.  
 
Respectfully yours, 
 
 
 
Doug Farley PE SE 
Sr. Principal Structural Engineer – Energetics Manufacturing 
Northrop Grumman Corporation, Space Systems 
 
Douglas.farley@ngc.com  
385-418-2416 
 
 
   
 
NOTICE OF PUBLIC HEARING 
SALT LAKE COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION 
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN Pursuant to Utah Code Title 17, Chapter 27a, Section 205, that the Salt Lake 
County Planning Commission will hold a public hearing on Wednesday , April 13, 2022 at 8:30 AM. The 
purpose of this hearing is to receive public comment regarding a proposed rezone: 
 
REZ2022-000535 – Northrup Grumman is requesting approval to rezone from 
Agricultural (A-20) to Manufacturing (M -2). Acreage: 35.515 acres. Location: 4098 
South 8400 West (Legal Address) , Approximately 4400 South 9200 West (Actual 
Location).  The owner of record of the subject property is Kennecott Utah Copper 
Corporation.  The zoning regulations for the proposed M-2 zone can be found at Salt Lake 
County Code chapter 19.68. 
 
The Planning Commission will act on the proposed rezone and take comments from the public during the 
public hearing. Public comments will be provided pursuant to the planning commission’s rules of conduct. 
Public comments will be limited to three minutes per person. The public is also invited to review and inspect 
materials related to the proposed rezone at https://www.utah.gov/pmn/index.html under the Planning 
Commission’s agenda.    
 
Due to the current COVID -19 pandemic, the Public Hearing will occur electronically with no physical 
location, as authorized by Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-207(5) and written determinations issued by the Chair of 
the Planning Commission. The public can join the Public Meeting via live broadcast using Cisco Webex.  
 
To participate in the public hearing, please use the following information:  
 
Join meeting in WebEx 
Meeting number (access code): 961 841 420 
Join by phone  
 Tap to call in from a mobile device (attendees only)  
+1-213-306-3065 United States Toll (Los Angeles)   
+1-602-666-0783 United States Toll (Phoenix)   
Access code: 961 841 420   
Global call-in numbers 
Join from a video conferencing system or application   
Dial wgurr@slco.webex.com   
You can also dial 173.243.2.68 and enter your meeting number.   
Need help? Go to http://help.webex.com 
 
You may also submit written comments prior to the public hearing by contacting Wendy Gurr at 
wgurr@msd.utah.gov or (385) 468-6707. Individuals needing special accommodations (including ancillary 
communicative aids and services) during the public hearing should contact Ms. Gurr three days before the 
public hearing.   
 
The record owner of the subject property may no later than 10 days after the April 13, 2022 public hearing 
file a written objection to the inclusion of the owner’s property in the proposed rezone.  Such objection may 
   
 
be filed with Ms. Gurr at the email address specified in the previous paragraph and will be forwarded to the 
Salt Lake County Council. 
 
