                            South Salt Lake city
Who is filling out this report?
Steve Lyon
Sr RDA and Housing Manager
slyon@sslc.gov
801-483-6061

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://sslc.gov/documentcenter/view/312


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://sslc.gov/documentcenter/view/312

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                           894
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
https://sslc.maps.arcgis.com/apps/instant/basic/index

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
7/9/2025

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
1432

Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the




                                                                                                895
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
0

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
3

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
3


Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).


ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Count of business licenses or permits to rent issued

Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
6
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
2




                                                                                               896
Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
2


Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
3




                                                                                       897
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
E
F
H
Q
V
A
C

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
E
The city passed a detached ADU ordinance February 7, 2024. The approved ordinance permits
for internal and external ADUs in specific residential zones when certain standards are met.
Over the this past year, city staff have educated city residents when ordinance inquiries are
made and have responded to questions on the several applications that have been
submitted.The ordinance was adopted in early 2024 and residents in the R1 (single family) and
RM (Residential Multiple) land use districts on lots larger than 6,000 square feet, are now
eligible to have an internal and external ADU.

F
-South Salt Lake Community Development is coordinating with Wasatch Front Regional Council
(WFRC) to adopt Station Area Plans (SAPs) for the Meadowbrook, Millcreek, Central Pointe
Trax Stations, and the 500 East , 300 East, and 2240 S-Line stops. -The City anticipates that
the SAPs for Meadowbrook and Millcreek Trax Stations will be ready for review in Fall of 2025
and for adoption by December 31, 2025. The other two SAPs, Central Pointe TRAX and SSL
Downtown S-Line are ready for certification. -The City will begin working on the four S-line
Station Area Plans in 2026 to complete the last SAPs in the city needed for to meet certification.
The City is updating its land use code in 2026 and will update the Transit Oriented District
(TOD) zones as part of that update. The city will revisit land-use plans, policies and zoning
provisions to measure against the city's General Plan and its moderate income housing goals.
The criteria will include: -Revisiting existing TOD boundaries;-Review of current residential



                                                                                               898
density maximums and; Promoting transit supportive design and appropriate density to leverage
TOD development along TRAX and streetcar, and key bus hubs; and -Carefully evaluating
areas with commercial potential for development as commercial hubs; -Evaluate potential
incentive based policies to attract moderate to low-income housing developments

H
-South Salt Lake will visit and revise this as appropriate in regards to the transit-oriented
development (TOD) land use plans, policies, and zoning provisions to measure effectiveness
and consistency with the goals of the General Plan and the Moderate Income Housing
Strategies outlined here. City is working towards: -Considering permitting tandem parking in
appropriate areas; -Review annually and revise as appropriate South Salt Lake's current
parking reduction requirements; and-Review and plan including policy updates sections
including a "parking standards section"
Q
-South Salt Lake has adopted an ordinance, approved a land use application, made
investments or approved agreement or financing that substantially promotes the implementation
of a moderate income housing strategy identified in the 2023 report; -The city has demonstrated
significant progress towards it specific plan to the county or municipalities implementation plan-
The City is creating a Housing Transit Reinvestment Zone (HTRZ) surrounding the Central
Pointe Trax Station to further its goals of increasing affordable housing

V
-South Salt Lake has made progress on the two prior Station Area Plans (SAPs) and is awaiting
certification of the Central Pointe TRAX and Downtown S-Line Station SAPs. -The consultants
are at the tail end of the process for the Meadowbrook and Millcreek SAPs and will submit their
findings and reports in September/October; -South Salt Lake is currently underway with the
Meadowbrook and Millcreek Trax SAPs and anticipates that they will completed and adopted
by the City Council and certified by WFRC by December 31, 2025. -South Salt Lake Community
Planning will apply for further funding to complete the further S-line stations in 2026-2027
timeframe.

A
-South Salt Lake as part of its overall land use and zoning changes it is doing in 2025-26 will
rezone for densities in areas of the city to facilitate the production of moderate income housing;
-The goal is to identify areas in the city where higher densities are appropriate and can enhance
and benefit existing commercial and residential uses

C
-South Salt is implementing this strategy to strengthen the city's existing R-1 zone and to
increase overall homeownership rate in the city. Currently South Salt Lake has a 37%
homeownership rate. -This strategy is part of long-term effort to stabilize neighborhoods
in the city through the acquisition and rehabilitation of existing abandoned/dilapidated
housing stock. The city is working with Habitat for Humanity as its partner on this project.
The city will acquire the houses, while Habitat will rehabilitate and sell the housing stock
to low-to-moderate income homeowners with a deed restriction on the property
maintaining long-term affordability


                                                                                                899
3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
E
Staff have assisted several residents with applications to modify residential units in the R1
(single-family) and RM (residential multiple) zones with inquiries and applications for internal
and detached Accessory Dwelling Units (ADU) in these two specified zoning districts.

F
South Salt Lake staff have coordinated Station Area Planning with WFRC and the City of
Millcreek to take community, stakeholder and elected officials input into the Meadowbrook and
Millcreek Station Area Plans. Staff have facilitated meetings with consultants to ensure plans
will be adopted by December 31, 2025. Staff continue to evaluate the TOD district as part of the
future land use update in 2026 and the needs for transit oriented solutions as the city continues
to develop its TOD zone

H
-South Salt Lake has been working its Station Area Plan for the city's Downtown District, called
"SSL Downtown Connect". This area encompasses both the Central Pointe Trax and the South
Salt Lake Downtown S-Line stop. The city has completed the Downtown Connect SAP, and is in
the process of completing the Millcreek/Meadowbrook SAP. It is anticipated that these SAPs will
be certified by year end. The city will apply for further funds for the remaining S-Line Station
Area Plans in early 2026. The city continues to address the parking on this area with its planned
update of its land use ordinances in 2026.

Q
The city has approved one land use application for the "Time Square" development and another
development is currently in the entitlement process in the HTRZ zone.

V
-City staff coordinated with Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) to finalize an RFP for
consultants for the Meadowbrook & Millcreek Station Area Plans (SAPs). This was done in
coordination with the City of Millcreek to ensure input on the Meadowbrook SAP for the 3900 S
Main area. -Staff have worked with the selected consultants to ensure community involvement
and that the SAP is moving forward to meet the deadline of for adoption.

A
-South Salt Lake staff have identified the need to increase densities in some areas of the city
where it is appropriate and can enhance existing uses as it is updating its land use codes; -Staff
see the need to add density which will add density where appropriate as it relates to missing-
middle housing and other housing types (e.g., townhomes, for-rent apartments, etc.) to increase
housing affordability and availability within the areas where the densities are approved




                                                                                               900
C-
South Lake identified its legacy neighborhoods as needing particular attention for homeownership
and support; -The city hired a housing manager to oversee the affordable housing efforts and to
increase affordable housing efforts in the city;-The project is currently identifying housing stock that
is uninhabitable within the city and working to acquire homes to convey to the third-party partner for
rehabilitation and resale to low-to-moderate income homebuyers.




4.     Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
E
The ordinance was adopted in early 2024 and residents in the R1 (single family) and RM
(Residential Multiple) land use districts on lots larger than 6,000 square feet, are now eligible to
have an internal and external ADU.

F
A land use decision has not been made, but is expected to be made when the consultant's
reports are submitted and the land use changes are made to the city's code. Additionally it is
anticipated that WFRC will provide a certificate of compliance for our Downtown Connect
Station Area Plan

H
The city is working internally to identify the appropriate measures to implement as it review its
land use and zoning ordinances in 2026 and the completed Station Area Plans to determine the
best way to implement policies.

Q
The HTRZ zone was adopted in the prior year. On July 10, 2025 the planning commission
adopted the Housing & Transit Overlay District allowing for increased densities of 50 units per
acre in the zone.

V
-Staff are working on adoption of the Station Area Plans and will adopt land use changes to the
Transit Orient District (TOD) as recommendation's are received from the consultants. -The City
is in the process of amending its overall land use code and will add any inputted changes
through that process in 2025-26.

A
The city is in the early stages of selection of a consultant for the city's land use update. It is
anticipated that the updates to the city's code will be completed by December 2026.

C
-The city is in the process of identifying the needed land-use regulations which will allow it to
increase its overall residential ownership in its R-1 and other zones. Staff will work with consultants
as part of the land use update to identify best practices and strategies which enhance and increase
the production of affordable homeownership
                                                                                                     901
5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
E
Concerns over ADU's being used as Short Term Rentals (STR) still persist. Other concerns with
the generation of increased parking in neighborhoods where ADUs are approved with increased
off-street parking.

F
Staff have experienced delays due to the coordination with the selection of the consultants and
the coordination with other government entities. The plans for the two, Meadowbrook and
Millcreek Stations will finish by December 2025 with the other station plans needing to be
completed in 2026 for the S-lines.

H
The city had some delay with the certification of the Downtown Connect SAP and delays with
the Downtown and East Streetcar land use updates which have affected the city's land use and
zoning updates as it relates to the TOD and HTRZ for parking reductions.

Q
Coordination with other governmental entities and other appropriate agencies on adopting the
Station Area Plans.

V
-Since April staff have been working on the Meadowbrook and Millcreek Station Area Plans
(SAPs). The two Trax stations are both within South Salt Lake City. -Timeliness of the all the
parties when working with other parties is always an issue when working on a largescale
project.

A
As the city is in the beginning stages the process the city has not yet progressed to the point of
meeting any barriers.




C
As the city begins this process, staff have reached out to neighboring municipalities to understand
their experiences with administering and overseeing similar programs. Staff have developed a
framework to guide the program and to remain flexible to change so as to be able to adapt and
manage the program successfully.




                                                                                                 902
6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
E
South Salt Lake has had four new ADU applications in the past year. This is typical due to the
smaller nature of the lot sizes and age of the housing stock in the city where ADUs are allowed.

F
There has been no market response as of yet as the plans are still in development. It is
anticipated that there will be changes in the market once the plans and the TOD district zoning
code are changed and adopted.

H
There have been no market responses to date. It is anticipated as the city moves forward with
its updated Downtown, East Streetcar and TOD land use district code sections updates that
there will be interest and projects that will take advantage of the zoning changes.

Q
South Salt Lake has attracted several projects to the HTRZ zone and is in the process of
working through the development process to finalize agreements that will create an anchor
development in the zone. This will allow the city to have a mix of affordable and market rate
rental units within walking distance of the Central Pointe Trax Station and situated to take
advantage of the S-line.

V
There has not been a market response yet, but the city is aware of interest from the
development community as it pursues the changes in it land use necessitated through the four
SAPs

A
The city has had limited response as of yet, but anticipates that new housing product may be
incentivized as zoning changes are implemented.

C
-The city has had another non-profit partner that is interested in working the city on developing
affordable housing stock from distressed single-family properties.




                                                                                                903
7.       Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
E
https://sslc.gov/DocumentCenter/View/312/General-Plan-2040---Appendix-PDF?bidId=

F

H

Q

V

A

C




      Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
E

F

H

Q

V

A

C




                                                                                   904
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing supply data,Housing needs data,Case studies for strategies,Education on partnering
with nonprofit organizations or housing authorities,Other (Please specify)
More granular data for city level housing focusing on affordability


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
It would be helpful to have updated information on the changes in the current legislation and
how any amendments have made substantive to past affordable housing legislation.


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                   905
