                                       CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                              Ordinance No. 2013-14


AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS OF THE LAND USE ORDINANCE OF
THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE PERTAINING TO REMOVING CLUSTERED
RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT PROVISIONS FROM THE R-1-43, R-1 -10, R-1-87,
AND A-5 ZONES.

        \VHEREAS the City of Bluffdale ("Applicant") has initiated an amendment of Title 11
of the Bluffdale City Code, the Bluffdale City Land Use Ordinance, pertaining to removing
Clustered Residential Development provisions from the R-1-43, R-1-1 0, R-1-87, and A-5 zones.

        \VHEREAS the Planning Commission held a public hearing, has reviewed the
application, and has made a recommendation to the City Council concerning the proposed
amendments to Title 11 , ofthe Bluffdale City Land Use Ordinance, and the City Council has
found the proposed amendments to be consistent with the City's General Plan; and

       \VHE REAS the proposed text amendments set forth herein have been reviewed by the
Planning Commission and the City Council, and all appropriate public hearings have been held
and public notice given in accordance with Utah law and local ordinance to obtain public
comment regarding the proposed amendments to the Land Use Ordinance;

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE AS FOLL O\VS:


        Section 1.       Amendment of Section 11-8A of the City of Bluffdale Land Use
Ordinance (Zoning Ordinance). Section 11-8A of the City of Bluffdale Land Use Ordinance
(Zoning Ordinance) is hereby amended as follows (all parts of these sections and subsections not
specifically listed shall remain unaffected):

11 -SA-2: PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL AND ACCESSORY USES:
A. Permitted Uses: The fo llowing land use types are permitted uses in the R- 1-43 residential zone. Unless
specifically listed, any other use is not a permitted use in the zone. Uses listed as conditional or accessory uses are
allowed in the zone only in accordance with the criteria established in this title:
I. Single-fam ily dwellings, detached.
~ . T\~ O family dwellings. ifapproved in accordance \\i tA subsection II 8A 3B of this arti cle.
;~. Public or private rights of way.
4}. Public or private utilities and maintenance facil ities.
~. Parks and recreational facil ities.
ei. Subdivisions pursuant to the subdivision ordinance.
+§. Childcare facilities (less than 6 children).
81. Residential facilities for elderly persons or persons with a disabil ity in accordance with chapter 27 of this title.
9~. Planned residential developments in accordance with this title.
+G2. The keeping of two (2) cows, two (2) horses, five (5) sheep, five (5) goats, or two (2) pigs/hogs per one-half
( 1/2 ) acre. Twenty fi ve (25) chickens or twe nty five (25) pheasants or similar fowl are equal to one large animal.
Combinations of animals are permitted such that the ratio of animals kept does not surpass the total permitted. For
example, one horse and one cow would be permitted, but one pig and five (5) sheep would not be permitted. Young
pigs/hogs, born of personal stock, are counted as adult at twelve ( 12) weeks and all other young animals born of
personal stock are coun ted as adults at six (6) months. Any unlisted animal will be compared with those listed by
size and weight.
B. Cond itional Uses: The following land use types are allowed as conditional uses in the R-1-43 residential zone.
Unless specifically listed, any other use is not allowed as a conditional use in the zone. Each conditional use must be
reviewed and approved in accordance with chapter 20 of this title:
 l. Clustered residential d~ ,· dopm~nt in accordance \\ ith subsection l l &i\ 3 B of ti:lis articlo:?.
~1. Water storage facilities, culinary or irrigation.
;~.Cemetery grounds and faci lities.
-td_. Re ligious buildings and structures.
~.Resorts and group camps.
6i. Attached accessory apartments.
+Q.. Golf courses.
&Z. Accessory dwelling unit.
9~ . Public uses.
+G2.. Canine hobby license.
++.LQ. Public and private riding arenas and stable, with outdoor lighting (5 acres minimum lot required).
P-U. Sale of"agricultural products", as defined in section 11 -2-2 of this title, except that: a) no business related
traffic may occur between ten o'clock (10:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7:00) A.M.; b) a minimum of one acre is
required; and c) there shall be no acc umulation of manure from off site sources.

11-SA-3: LOT AREA:
A. Specified: Each dwelling in the R-1 -43 residential zone shall be on a separate lot containing not less than one
acre, except in accordance with article 11-SC (Planned Residential Deve lopments) of this title. subsection B ofti:l is
~
B. Clustered Residential Development:
l. At the discretion of ti:le cit) counci l, an appli cant rna:, be allowed to reduce the req1:1ired lot size in order 10
accompl isi:l one or more of the following objectives:
~ ec ti on or preser,·atio n of envi r0fi-FJ1':ffitally sensitive areas.
b. Provision of open space used for vioH\ shed protection or public recro:?ationaltl5e-:-
c. Protection of valuable agricultllral land witi:l lots arranged to allow continued agricult~:~ra l 1:1se of the pro pert).
d. Improved circulation and traffic tl ow.
e. ~.l ore efficient operation and maintenance of public infrastrllcture.
2. In no case ma) the lot size in the R 1 13 residenrial zone be less than ten tho1:1sand (I 0.000) square feet It is not
the intenrion ofti:lis subsection to increase d,;msity. The cir/ collncil finds that clustering of residential lots is a bon1:1s
for the applicant Lot sizes and an·a11gernent may vary to take advantage of topograph ical or aesthetic features. Two
family dwellings may be allowed in order to further accomplisi=Hhe goals ofth-i-s-see#f)n. but the cit; council is
under no obligation to allo'N two family dwellings.
3. The cit) council is under no obligat ion to allow clustered residential development. Each proposed clustered
development.,., ill be reviewed and approYed or denied on its O\\n merits. Denial of a clustered residential
de\·elopment '•' ill not affect tAO? abilit:• of the applicant to d~¥elop the propert'1 in accordance with the standards Si?t
fo11h in ti:lis article. (Ord. I0 2 I 00 I. I0 2 I 2000)

11-SA-4: LOT WIDTH:
A. Specified: Each lot in the R-l-43 residential zone shall have a minimum lot width of one hundred twenty five feet
(125') for all of the area within the required front setback of the zone, unless a more narrow lot is approved in
accordance with article 11-8( of this title.section II &A JB ofthis a11icle.
8. Reduction: If the lot or parcel is located on an approved curve radius or cul-de-sac, the width requirement may be
reduced to thirty feet (30'); provided, that the requirement is satisfied at the front setback line. (Ord. 200 1-08, 6-26-
200 1)
                                                               2
1 1-SA-5: LOT FRONTAGE:
A. Specified: Each lot in the R-1-43 residential zone shall abut a public street, or private street if approved by the
city council for a minimum distance of one hundred twenty fi ve feet ( 125'), unleSSJ! less~ frontage is approved in
accordance with artick 11 -SC of thi s title. subs~ction I I 8A 3 B of this article.
B. Reduction: If the lot or parcel is located on an approved curve radius or cul-de-sac, the frontage requirement may
be reduced to thirty feet (30'); provided, that the width requirement is satisfied at the front setback line. (Ord. 2001 -
08, 6-26-200 I)

ll-SA-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum setback requirements shall apply in the R- 1-43 residential zone. unless lesser setbad.s are
approved in accordance with article II-8C of this title. Each setback is measured from the property line ofthe lot or
parcel.

1 1-SA-1 1: PERMISSIBLE LOT COVERAGE:
The sum total of all build ings and structures on any parcel in the R- 1-43 residential zone shall not be greater than
twenty percent (20%) of the total area of the parce l~. unless appro' ed for greater CO\ erage in accordance with
subs~ction I I 8,\ 3 B of this a11icle. (Ord. I 0-24-00-1 , I 0-24-2000)
11-7-3: LOT AREA:
A. Specified: Each dwelling in the agricultural zone shall be on a separate lot containing not less than five (5) acres,
unless approved in accordance with anicle II-8C of this title. except that ranch or farm employee housing may be
on a smaller parcel in conjunction with a bona fide agricultural use at a ratio of one unit per twenty (20) acres that
must be reviewed and approved every three (3) years.
B. Clustered Residential Dev e l oprn~nr:
I. At the d i scr~tion of the city couRcil. aR applicam may be allowed to reduce the required lot size in order to
accomplish one or more of the fo llowing objectives:
a. Protection or preservation of en· ironmemallj sensitive a-rea5-:
b. Pro·, is ion of open space us~d for viewshed prot~ction or public recreational use.
e. Protection of Yaluabl~ agricultural land with lots arranged to allow continu~d agricultural use of the propert).
d. ln1pro\ ed circu lation and traffic tlow.
e. ~·l ore efticient operation and maintenance of public i nfrastruct~
2. In no case ma) the lot size in the A 5 agricultural zone be less than one half(+,~) acre. It is not the intention of this
section to increase density. The city council finds that clustering of residential lots is a bonus for the applicant. Lot
sizes and arrangem~nt ma~. ••a F) to take ad\ anta,;;e of topographical or aesthetic features .
3. TAe city council is under no obligation to allow clustered residential de,elopment. Each proposed clustered
deYelopment will b~ re\ iewed and appro •.-ed and denied on its own merits. Denial of a clustered resident+a-1
d~\·elopmeAt will not affect the ability of the applicant to develop th~ property in accordance v.ith the standards s~t
fo11h iR this chapter. (Ord. I0 2 I 00 I, I0 -, I 2000)
11-7-4: LOT WIDTH:
Each lot in the agricultural zone shall have a minimum width of two hundred feet (~00') for al l of the area within the
~d front setback o fth~ zo ne. unless approv~d for a more narrO\\ lot in accordance wi th article I I-8C of this
title. subsection II 7 3 8 of this cha~ (Ord . I0-24-00-1 , I0-24-2000)

11-7-5: LOT FRONTAGE:
Each lot in the agricultural zone shall abut a public street, or private street if approved by the city council, for a
minimum distance of two hundred feet (200'), unless approved for less frontage in accordance with article 11-8C of
this titl e. subsection II 7 JB of this chapter. (Ord. 10-24-00-1 , 10-24-2000)

11-7-7 : SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum setback requirements shall apply in the A-5 agricultural zone. unless lesser setbacks are
approved in accordance \~ irh article I I-8C of this title. Each setback is measured from the property line of the lot or
parcel:



                                                             3
        Section 2.       Amendment of Section 11-SB of the Citv of Bluffdale Land Use
Ordinance (Zoning Ordinance). Section ll-8B of the City ofBluffd ale Land Use Ordinance
(Zoning Ordinance) is hereby amended as follows (all parts of these sections and subsections not
specifically listed shall remain unaffected):

11-88-2: PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL AND ACCESSORY USES:

B. Conditional Uses: The foll owing la nd use types are allowed as conditional uses in the R-1-1 0 residential zone.
Unless specifically listed, any other use is not allowed as a conditional use in the zone. Each conditional use must be
reviewed and approved in accordance with chapter 20 of this title:
 I. T\~O famil:- d·.~ ellin::;s and multi famil) dv ellin::;s in accordance with subsecrian II 813 3B of this anicle.
~!. Water storage fac ilities, culinary or irrigation.
;~. Cemetery grounds and facilities.
4;),. Religious buildings and structures.
~. Public and private schools, not daycare facilities.
e~. Golf courses .
.f§.. Accessory dwell ing un it.
&l. Publi c uses.

ll-88-3: LOT AREA:
A. Specified: Each dwelling in the R- 1-1 0 residential zone shall be on a separate lot containing not less than ten
thousand ( 10,000) square feet, unless otherwise approved for cluste'ring in accordance ·rith subsection B of this
section. or as an inti II parci!l in accordance with chapter II , article C of this title.
B. Cluste red Re'side'ntia l Deve l opn~
 I. At the discretion of the' city council. an applicant ma:. be allowed to reduce tho:! required lot size in order to
accoA1J')Iisi:l onoi! or A10r<? of ti:le following objecti' es:
a. Protection or presen at ion of en' ironmentalJ:, sensitive areas.
b. Provisions of open spaee used for •, iewshed protection or public r<?creational use.
c. Protection ofvaluable agricultural land wi th lots an·anged to altow continued a::;ricu ltura l use of the property.
d. lmpro\·ed circulation and traffic flow.
e. ~ l ore efficient operation and maintenance of public infrastructure.
2. It is not the inte'ntion of this subsection to increase density. The cit; council finds that clustering ofr<?sidentiallots
is a bonus for the applicant. Lot sizt!s and arrangement may vary to take ad,·antage of topographical or aesthetic
teatures. Two family dwellings and lim ited multi family dwell ings may be allowed in order to funher accomplish
the goals of this section, but the city counc il is under no obligation to all ow two fami ly dwe llings or mult i fa mH-;-
dwellings.
3. The city council is under no obligation to aiiO\\ clusti!red r2sidential d~' elopment. Each proposed clustued
developmen t will be reviewed and appro\ ed aRd den ied on its O\\n mo:?rits. Denial of a clustereC:l residential
dt:JvelopmcRt ....-ill not affect the ability of the applicant to dt:JYelop the prop<?rty in accordance with the stan dar~
 forth in this article. (Ord. I0 2 I 00 I, I0 2 '1 7QOQ.j

ll -8B-4: LOT WIDTH:
A. Speci fied: Each lot in the R-1-1 0 residential zone shall have a min imum width of one hundred feet ( I 00') for all
of the area within the requi red fro nt setback of the zo ne, unless otherwise approved in accordaRce '• \ ith subsectiOR
II SB 38 of this artic le, or as an infill parcel in accordance with chapter II , article C ofthis ti tle.
B. Reduction: If the lot or parcel is located on an approved curve radius or cul-de-sac, the width requirement may be
reduced to the width of the building, plus side yard setbacks; provided, that the requirement is satisfied at the
building setback line. (Ord. I 0-24-00-1 , l 0-24-2000; amd. Ord. 2001 -04, 3-1 3-200 I)

11-88-5: LOT FRONTAGE:
A. Specified: Each lot in the R-1-1 0 residential zone shall abut a public street, or private street if approved by the
city council, for a minimum distance of eighty feet (80'), unless otherwise approved in accordance with subsection
11 SB 38 of this article or as an in fill parcel in accordance wi th chapter II , article C of this title.
                                                              4
B. Reduction: If the lot or parcel is located on an approved curve radius or cul-de-sac, the frontage requ irement may
be reduced to thirty feet (30'); provided, that the width requirement is satis fied at the front setback line. (Ord. 200 I-
08, 6-26-200 I)

li-8B-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum setback requirements shall apply in the R-1-1 0 residential zone,. un lo:?ss appro\ 0d for
clusto:?ring in acconJanc0 with subsection II 88 38 of this arricl~. _ Each setback is measured from the property line
ofthe lot or parcel. (Ord. 20 12-07, 7- 11-20 12)

11-88-11 : PER.i\1ISSIBLE LOT COVERAGE:
The sum total of all buildings and structures on any parcel in the R-1-1 0 zone shall not be greater than forty percent
(40%) of the total area ofthe parcel,. unl.ess approved for clust.ering in accordanc0 with subs.ection II 88 38 of this
~ (Ord. I 0-24-00- I, I0-24-2000)



        Section 3.      Amendment of Section 11-SD of the Citv of Bluffdale Land Use
Ordinance (Zoning Ordinance). Section 11-80 of the City of Bluffdale Land Use Ordinance
(Zoning Ordinance) is hereby amended as follows (all parts of these sections and subsections not
specifically listed shall remain unaffected):

 ll-8D-2: PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL AND ACCESSORY USES:
A. Permitted Uses: The following land use types are permitted uses in the R-1-87 residential zone. Unless
specifically listed, any other use is not a permitted use in the zone. Uses listed as conditional or accessory uses are
allowed in the zone on ly in accordance with the criteria established in this article:
 1. Single-family dwellings, detached.
2. Agriculture and forestry.
3. T .... o family dv.el lings. ifappro·.ed in ao::con1a11u~ "ith subst!ution II 80 38 ofrhis article.
-1-l. Public or private rights of way.
~:!. Public or private utilities and maintenance facilities.
62,. Parks and recreational faci lities.
+§. Subdivisions pursuant to the subdivision ordinance.
&2. Childcare facilities (less than 6 children).
-9Q. Residential facilities for elderly persons or persons with a disability in accordance with chapter 27 of this title.
+G2.. Planned residential developments in accordance with this title.
++.!..Q. The keeping of two (2) cows, two (2) horses, five (5) sheep, five (5) goats, or two (2) pigs/hogs per one-half
C/2) acre. Twenty five (25) chickens or twenty five (25) pheasants or similar fowl are equal to one large animal.
Combinations of animals are permitted such that the ratio of animals kept does not surpass the total permitted. For
example, one horse and one cow would be permitted but one pig and five (5) sheep would not be permitted. Young
pigs/hogs, born of personal stock, are counted as adult at twelve ( 12) weeks and all other young animals born of
 personal stock are counted as adults at six (6) months. Any unlisted animal will be compared with those listed by
size and weight.
 B. Conditional Uses: The following land use types are allowed as conditional uses in the R-1-87 residential zone.
 Unless specifically listed, any other use is not allowed as a conditional use in the zone. Each conditional use must be
 reviewed and approved in accordance with chapter 20 of this title:
  I. Clust.ered residential development in accordance with subsection II 80 38 ofthis article.
~1. Water storage facilities, culinary or irrigation.
 ;l. Cemetery grounds and faci lities.
 -+;2.. Religious buildings and structures.
 ~:!,. Resorts and group camps.
 ei. Golf courses.
 +§. Accessory dwe lling unit.
 82. Public uses.
 9Q. Public and private riding arenas and stable, with outdoor lighting (5 acres minimum lot required).

                                                             5
+t12. Sale of"agricultural products", as defmed in section 11-2-2 of this title, except that: a) no business related
traffic may occur between ten o'clock ( I0:00) P.M. and seven o'clock (7 :00) A.M. ; b) a minimum of one acre is
required; and c) there shall be no accu mulation of manure from off site sources.
++lQ. Canine hobby license.

11-80-3: LOT AREA:
A. Speci fi<:?d: Each dwe ll ing in the R- 1-87 residential zone shall be on a separate lot containing not less than two (2)
acres, except in accordance with article II-8C (Planned Res idential Developments) of this title. subsection B of this
see-f-ie.A..:.
B. Clust<:?red Resident ial Developm<:?nt:
I. At tRe discretion of the cit:• council. an applicant ma~ be allO\\ ed to reduce IRe required lot site in order to
accornplish one or more of the following obj<:?cti•, es:
a. Protection or preser\ation of environmentally sensiti\·e areas.
b. Pro\ is ion of open space used for \'iewshed protection or public recreatio nal use.
c-,-.llrorection of valuable agricultural land witR lots arranged to allov. continued agricultural use ofthe propeF~
d. lmprowd circulation and traftie--fl.ew.:.
e. !\lore efficient operation and mai ntenance of public infrastructure.
2. In no cas<? ma) the lot size in the R I 87 residemialzon<? be less than ten thousand ( I 0.000) square feet. It is nor
the intenrion of this section to incraase densir:-. Tha cit) council finds that clustaring of residential lots is a bonus to r
the applicant. Lot sizes and arrangement may \ ary to take ad\antage of topographical or aesthetic features. T·.~o
fam il; dwt!llings ma~ ba allo\\ eel in order to fu rther accomplish the goals of this section. but the city council is
under no obligation to allow two family dwe llings.
3. The city council is under no obligation to aiiO\\ clusteFed residential de•.elopment. Each proposed clustered
de·•elopment \~ i ll be re\iewed and approvi;)d or denied on its own merits. Denial of a clustered residential
~~ment will not affect IRe ability of the appl icant to deH!Iop the propert;. in accordance wi th the standards set
fortR in this article. lOrd. 20 I0 12. 9 28 ?0 I0)

11-80-4: LOT WIDTH :
A. Specified: Each lot in the R-1-87 residential zone shall have a minimum width of one hundred twenty fi ve feet
(125') for all of the area within the required fron t setback of the zo ne, unless a more narrow lot is approved in
accordance with anick II-8C of this ti tle. ~ction ll 8D 38 of this article.
B. Reduction: If the lot or parcel is located on an approved curve radius or cul-de-sac, the width requirement may be
reduced to thirty feet (30'); provided, that the requirement is satisfied at the front setback line. (Ord. 20 I 0-12, 9-28-
20 10)

11-80-5: LOT FRONTAGE:
A. Specified: Each lot in the R-1-87 residential zone shall abut a public street, or private street if approved by the
city council, for a minimum distance of one hundred twenty fi ve feet ( 125'), unless_i! lessg frontage is approved in
accordance with artic le ll -8C of this title. subsection II 8D 3B ofthi5 article.
B. Red uction: If the lot or parcel is located on an approved curve radius or cul-de-sac, the frontage requirement may
be reduced to thirty feet (30'); provided, that the width requirement is satisfied at the front setback line. (Ord. 20 I0-
12, 9-28-20 10)

 11-80-7: SETBACK REQUIREM ENTS:

The following min imum setback requirements shall apply in the R-1-87 residential zone. un less lesser setbacks are
approved in accordance with a11icle I I-8C of this tit It:. Each setback is measured from the property li ne of the lot or
parcel:

 11-80-ll : PERMISS IBLE LOT COVERAGE:
 The sum total of al l buildings and structures on any parcel in the R-1-87 residential zone shall not be greater than
 twenty percent (20%) of the total area of the parc e l ~.-u-nl as5 appro•, ed for greato?r CO\ erage in accordan~
 subsection I I 8D 3B of this artic le. (Ord. 20 10- 12, 9-28-20 10)

                                                              6
         Section 4.       Amendment of Section 11-7 of the Citv of Bluffdale Land Use
Ordinance (Zoning Ordinance). Section 11-7 ofthe Ci ty of Bluffdale Land Use Ordinance
(Zoning Ordinance) is hereby amended as follo ws (all parts of these sections and subsections not
spec ifically listed shall remain unaffected):

11-7-2: PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL AND ACCESSORY USES:

B. Conditional Uses: The following land use types are allowed as conditional uses in the A-5 agricultural zone.
Unless specifically listed, any other use is not allowed as a conditional use in the zone. Each conditional use must be
reviewed and approved in accordance with chapter 20 of this title:
 I. Agricultural support faci lities, barns and sheds.
7 . Clustered residential de \·elopment in accordance \l ith subsection II 7 3B ofthis chap t ~r.

n_. Cell ular and low power towers pursuant to chapter 24 of this title.
4l . Ranch or farm employee dwellings (limited to I unit per 20 acres of land area which must be reviewed and
renewed every 3 years).
5:!.. Water storage fac ilities, culinary or irrigation.
6~. Cemetery grounds and faci lities.
7§.. Religious buildings and structures.
81. Resorts and group camps.
9~. Golf courses.
 102. Accessory dwelling unit.
 ll lQ. Public uses.
 1211. Canine hobby license.
11-7-3: LOT AREA:
A. Specified: Each dwelling in the agricultural zone shall be on a separate lot containing not less than five (5) acres,
unless approved in accordance \\ ith article l i-8C of this title. except that ranch or farm employee housing may be
on a smaller parcel in conjunction with a bona fide agricultural use at a ratio of one unit per twenty (20) acres that
must be reviewed and approved every three (3) years.
B. Clustered Residential Deve lopment:
 I. At the discretion of the ci£] council. an applicant rna:· be allo wed to reduce the required lot size in order to
accomplish one or more of the following objecti·,es:
a. Prorection or preso:?r\·ation of environmental!~ sensirive areas.
b. Pro\·ision of open space used for \ iewshed protection or pub! ic recreational use.
~otection of valuable agricultural land with lots arranged to allow continued agricultural use of the prope1              1y.
d. lmpro\·ed circulation and traffic !low.
e. >Ioro:? cffi cient operation and maintenance of public infrastructuro:?.
7 . In no case may the lor size in r!:le A 5 agricultural zone be less than one half(\) acre. It is not t!:le intent ion ofrhis

section to increase density. The city council finds thar cl ustering of resid ential lots is a bonus for the applicant. Lot
sizes and arran gern~m may \·ary to take advantage of topograpffi€-al or aesthetic feat ures.
3. The city council is under no obligation to allow clustered residential de, elopment. Each proposed clustered
development ..,,·ill be rev iewed and appro,·ed and dcnied on irs 0\1 n merits. Denial of a c1Hs£ered residential
de,·elopment wi ll not aft"<!cr rhe abiliry of !Ae applican£ to de, elop tl~~ p rope~ in accordance •,\ irl-1 tl:l~ srandard5 set
forti:! in this chapter. (Ord. I 0 J 1 00 I. I0 2 I 2000)
11-7-4: LOT WIDTH:
Eacl:l lot in the agricu ltural zone shall ha'e a minimum wiGrh of two hundred fe~t (200') for all of the area '\i!hin the
~ fron£ setback of the zone. ~mless approved for a more narro l'. lot in accordance wirl:l article 11 -SC of thi s
title. subsecrion I I 7 JB of this ci~(Ord . 10-24-00-1 , 10-24-2000)

11-7-5: LOT FRONTAGE:
Each lot in the agricultural zone shall abut a public street, or private street if approved by the city council, for a
minimum distance of two hundred feet (200'), unless approved for less frontage in accordance with article II-8C of
this title. subsecri on I I 7 3 B of tl~i5 cl:lapter. (Ord. I0-24-00- 1, I0-24-2000)
                                                                7
ll-7-7: SETBACK REQUIREMENTS:
The following minimum setback requirements shall apply in the A-5 agricultural zone. unless lesser setbad,s are
approved in accordance with article I l-8C of this title. Each setback is measured from the property line of the lot or
parcel:

        Section 5.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or
 posting, or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF BLUFFDALE CITY, STATE
OF UTAH, THIS 16th DAY OF JULY, 2013.

                                                       BLUFFDALE CITY




 ATTEST:



J-L6cL'.___
 Recorder
                 V.
                 ~
                    D~
 [SEAL]



 Voting by the City Council:
                                              "AYE"             "NAY"
         Councilmember Jackson                    X

         Councilmember Kartchner                  X

         Councilmember Nelson                     X

         Council member Nielsen                   X

         Councilmember Pehrson                    X




                                                           8
