                                       ORDINANCE NO. 2020-13

· AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
  AMENDING CITY CODE SECTION 1-6-2 (CITY COUNCIL) REGARDING CITY
  COUNCIL MEETINGS AND ITS PROCEDURES.

       WHEREAS, Utah C.Ode § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the "City") authority to
enact ordinances that the Bluffdale City C.Ouncil {the "City C.ouncil") considers necessary or
appropriate for the City; and

       WHEREAS, the City C.Ouncil desires to clarify City ordinances related to City C.Ouncil
meetings and its procedures; and

       WHEREAS, the City C.Ouncil has held a public hearing and reviewed the subject text
amendment; and

        WHEREAS, the City C.Ouncil finds that the subject text amendment will enhance the public
health, safety, and general welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. Amendment of City Code. Section 1-6-2 of the Bluffdale City C.Ode, as
shown in the attached Exhibit A, is hereby amended.

       SECTION 2. Severability. If anysection, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

                                  [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]




                                                                                          Page I of2
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH, ON THIS 22N° DAY OF JULY, 2020 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                  YES    NO     ABSTAIN      ABSENT

                       O.mncilmember Aston                                     X
                       Councilmember Crockett       X
                       Councilmember Gaston         X
                       Councilmember Hales          X
                       Councilmember Kallas         X



Mayor.    &11~                                    Attest: ~     IYO\'f\ ~
         DerkP.Tuno~                                       Gina Mil l er , Deputy City Recorder
                                                on beha lf o f Wendy Deppe, City Reco rde r

Approved as to form:




~




                                                                                    Page 2 of 2
                                             EXHIBIT A

                          (Additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough)

1-6-2: CITY COUNCIL:

 A Governing Body: The Governing Body of the City shall be a Council composed of six (6)
members, one (1) of whom shall be the Mayor and five (5) of whom shall be Council members, which
Council is hereinafter referred to as the "City Council".

  B. Powers And Duties: The City Council shall exercise the legislative and executive powers of the
City and may perform such other functions as may be specifically provided or necessarily implied by
law. The City Council may delegate its executive powers as permitted byState law. (Ord. 2006-09, 10-
17-2006; amd. 2013 Code)

  C. Meetings:

     1. Regular Meetings: The City Council shall hold regular meetings at least once a month at the
offices of the City of Bluffdale at 1122 West l 11'100 South, Bluffdale, Utah, in accordance with an
annual meeting schedule adopted by the City Council. If the meeting day is a legal holiday, the meeting
may be canceled or may be held on a following day as directed by the City Council. (Ord. 2017-14, 7-
26-2017)

    2. Special Meetings: The Mayor or any two (2) Council members may call a special meeting for
the purpose of discussing and acting upon any business of the City. The calling of a special meeting
shall be entered into the minutes of the City Council. Notice of the special meeting shall be served by
the City Recorder or Clerk on each member of the Council who did not call the special meeting by
delivering the notice personally or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode at least three (3)
hours prior to the special meeting. The personal appearance by a member at any specially called
meeting constitutes a waiver of the notice required by this section.

   3. Electronic Meetings: TI1e City Council mav convene and conduct electronic meetings m
accordance with Utah Code and City policy.



    3. Closed },4eetings: The affirmative vote of at least two thirds (1/3) of the City Council present
at an open meeting for which notice is given and a quorum is present may call a closed meeting to
discuss certain items as proYided under Utah Code A'l:flotated section 52 1 204, as amended. The
reason or reasons for holding a closed meeting and the vote, either for or against the proposition to
hold such a meeting, cast by each member by name shall be entered on the minutes of the meeting.
·No ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, contract or appointment shall be approved at a closed
 meeung.

    4. Adjourned Meetings: If the-.mx..business noticed on -t:he-a City Council meeting agenda--4-a
regular or special meeting is not completed before adjournment of that meeting, a meeting may be
held to complete the uncompleted business. A motion to adjourn at the regular or special meeting
shall specify the date and time for the continuation of said meeting. No adjourned meeting shall be
scheduled on a date later than the next regular meeting.


                                                                                                 Exhibit A
 D. Open Meetings Law: Ail meetings of the City C.Ouncil shall be open to the public, except closed
meetings defined in subse.:tion O of this sectionfollow the Open and Public Meetings Act found in
Utah C.Ode § 52-4-101 d .,eq. (Ord. 2006-09, 10-17-2006; amd. 2013 C.Ode)

  E. Agenda: A written agenda for each regular meeting shall be prepared under the direction of the
City Manager or his or her designee. In the event that any member of the City C.Ouncil desires to add
or delete an item or items to any prepared agenda, then written consent must be obtained from two
(2) members of the City C.Ouncil or from the Mayor alone. Upon receiving the proper request from
either two (2) members of the City C.Ouncil or from the Mayor, the City Manager, or his or her
des ignee, shall instruct the City Recorder to add or delete items to the agendas as requested. Majority
vote is needed to delete an item from an agenda. (Ord. 2017-14, 7-26-2017)

  F. Minutes: Written minutes shall be kept of ail meetings of the City C.Ouncil as required by Utah
C.Ode Annotated section 52-4-203, as amended, and shall be presented to the City C.Ouncil for review,
correction and approval.

  G. Public Records: The minutes, journals, accounts and documents of the City C.Ouncil shall be
kept at the Office of the City Recorder. Approved copies shall be open and available to the public
during regular business hours fo r examination and copying pursuant to the Utah Government Records
Access and Management Act. See Utah C.Ode 63G-2.

   H Public Notice Of l\1eetings: The City Council shall give public notice at least once each year or
its annual meeting schedule as provided by lav,. In addition, the City Council shall give not less than
twenty four (24) hours' public notice of the agenda, date, time and place of each of its meetings, except
for emergency meetings.

  HI. Mayor Presides: The Mayor shall be the Chairperson and preside at the meetings of the City
C.Ouncil. In the absence of the Mayor or because of his or her inability or refusal to act, the City
C.Ouncil may elect a member of the City C.Ouncil to preside over the meetings as Mayor Pro Tempore.
Each appointment of Mayor Pro Tempore shall be in effect until the Mayor returns or until another
Mayor Pro Tempo re is appointed by the City C.Ouncil.

 IJ. Attendance: The City C.Ouncil shall have the power to compel the attendance of its own
members and to provide such penalties as it deems necessary for the failure to comply therewith.

 JK. Rules Of Procedure: Except as otherwise provided by law, it is the intent of the Citv C.Ouncil
that its meetings be conducted in an orderly. efficient, and fair manner ,vithout undue formality. To
 that end, the Citv C.Ouncil shall conduct its meetings generally consistent with Roben 's Rules Of
.Qrdf_rthe City Counc il may determine its ovm rules of procedure for the proper conduct of its
 meetmgs."

  Kb. Rules Of C.Onduct: The CityC.Ouncil on a two-thirds (2/3) vote of its members may expel any
person who is disorderly and/ or disruptive during the meeting of the City C.Ouncil. The City C.Ouncil
may also on a two-thirds (2/3) vote of its members expel or fine any C.Ouncil member for disorderly
and/ or disruptive conduct. This subsection or any action taken by the Governing Body pursuant
hereto shall not preclude prosecution under any other provision of law.

  1M. Attendance Of Witnesses And Production Of Evidence: The City C.Ouncil may require the
attendance of any person to give testimony or produce records, documents or things for inspection,


                                                                                                 Exhibit A
copying or examination necessary or useful for the governance of the City. The City C.ouncil. or its
specifically authorized delegation, may issue subpoenas in its own name in the manner provided in
the Utah Rules of Civil Procedure or may, by ordinance, establish its own procedure for issuing
subpoenas under this subsection.

  N. Quorum: ±':fo action of the City C.Ouncu shall be official or of any effect unless a quonim of the
C.Ouncil members are present, except as othenvise provided by law Three (3) or more C.Ouncil
mPmhPr>:: c::h::ill FAn,tin1tP ::i AIIAAlm


  0. \Totino-·

        How Taken:
   . 1. which,.,.
acuon             le A roU call. ''"Ote
                                    .. shaII .be taken and recorded for ll =a·                   .
of ,he Ci 'VJ- ou: e';are.. a liab ,h,y agamst the City. I" all o,h    a- o rffiftflees' resol,•10ns aAd •"Y
shall be i~ wn::;·~:f-0;.;sth::.:;~"~"..:;: shall be 1>1l«A aAd .,,~0 ::':,;,         ~',,!~ ::::~o~ ;;;;:;;::::::

:~~=:
f
    ? . . Number R-equired: The minimum number f
reso luuon'r°r to take any action by the City VJ
            o::i:::r~h::::;e
  ee,,,e<HI f cl        ·
                                              -~ ';'s vores R>quiR>d to pass any ominaeee
                                             <i,"ll=~'
                                               b..               p
                                                                     II   II




                                                      ~=e~s1,:·,~~:--~:np==e~)by,:;:,
                                          1 1mn• ev·er i ,.    bl
        . e-eare- .,.cl mvalid. Fewer votes "'•F~"'P;j "' ' :ra e              'f°'"
                                                                                 · ·"
                                                                                                 be
                                                                                             lllllnee
                                                                     thae required 1,e,.i,, shall b;
                                                                                                        :;;n ~
~ume to wne and AlilY                 fill a ,-acancv i,, the Ci,,· ;;:n -n-:;:i. absentees,
                                                                 '   UflCI.    i; .
                                                                                             mapdjoum
                                                                                   ?006 09. 10           a meetHlo
                                                                                               17 ?006: amd. 2013


     3. Mayor Voting: As provided by State Statute, the }.'!ayer shall vote only in the case of a tie or
in the appointment or dismissal of a City ·Manager, an oro.inance that en larges or restricts the N!ayor's
pov,·ers, duties , or functions or as provided by Utah C.Oee .Annotates section 10 3b 302(1)(b). (Ord.
1017 14, 7 16 1017)

  P. R-econsideration: Any action taken by the Gty Council shall not be reconsidered or rescinded at
any special meeting unless the number o[ members of the Gey C.Ounc il present at a special meeting is
equal to or greater than the number of members present at the meetino- when the action was approved
(Orti   21'1Q(, QQ   1 () 17 ?()(}{,, , ::imrl ?() l 1 C'ArlP)




                                                                                                           Exhibit A
