                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2020-17

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
AMENDING BCC 3.10.010 (DEFINITIONS) AND 3.10.080 (DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR
REVOCATION OF BUSINESS LICENSE).

         WHEREAS, on June 24, 2020, the Gty C.Ouncil passed Resolution No. 2020-45, which was
a pending ordinance changing the provisions related to, among other things, business licensing,
solicitors, and home occupations; and

       WHEREAS, while Gty staff has not finished all provisions of Resolution No. 2020-45, a
portion of the amendments are ready to be presented to the City Council; and

        WHEREAS, the City C.Ouncil reviewed the subject text amendments in Exhibit A and find
that the amendments benefit the public health, safety, and welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

       SECTION 1. Amendment.            The City C.Ouncil hereby amendments BCC 3.10.010
(Definitions) and 3.10.080 (Denial, Suspension, or Revocation of Business License), as shown in
Exhibit A

       SECTION 2. Severability. If anysection, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

                                [SIGNATIJRE PAGE FOLLOWS]




                                                                                          Page I of6
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UT AH, ON THIS 22N° DAY OF JULY, 2020 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                YES       NO   ABSTAIN    ABSENT

                    Councilmember Aston                                    X
                    Councilmember Crockett        X
                    Councilmember Gaston          X
                    Councilmember Hales           X
                    Councilmember Kallas          X



Mayor:                                          Attest:
         DerkP. T                                       Gina Miller , Deputy Ci t y Recorder
                                             on behalf of Wendy Deppe, City Recorder




                                                                                Page 2 of 6
                                                EXHIBIT A

                           (Deletions in strikethrough, additions in underline)

3.01.010 Definitions

As used in this chapter:
BUSlNESS: Includes all activities engaged in within the city can-ied on for the purposes of gain or
econom ic pro fit , except that the acts of employees rendering services to employers sha ll not be included in
the term business, unless otherwise specilica ll y provided.
BUSmESS LI CENSE: Includes all licenses and certificates regulated bv Title 3.
BUSrNESS LICENSE OFFICIAL: The City employee with the responsibility of administering Title 3. or
its desi!mee.
EAC H SEPARA TE PLACE OF BUSlNESS: Each separate establishment or place of operation, whether
or not operati ng under the same name, withi n the city, including a home or the place of lodging if the same
is held out by advertisements, listings or ot herwise as the establishment or place of operation or a person
engaging in the business of selling tangible. personal propeny at either retail or wholesale. or both, in the
city.
EMPLOYEE: The operator, owner or manager of a place of business and any persons emp loyed by such
person in the operation of said place of business in any capacity, and also any salesperson, agent or
independent contractor engaged in the operation of the place of business in any capacity.
EN GAG ING rN BUS INESS: Inc ludes. but is not li mited to, the sale of tangible persona l properly at retail
or wholesale. the manufacturing of goods or property. and the rendering or personal services for others for
a consideration by persons engaged in any profess ion, trade, crart, business, occupation or other calling.
except the rendering of personal services by an employee to his employer under any contract of personal
employment.
PLACE OF BUSlNESS: Each separate location maintained or operated by the licensee within this city from
which business activity is conducted or transacted.
WHOLESALE: A sa le of tangible personal property by wholesa lers lo retail merchants, jobbers, dealers or
other wholesalers for resale, and does not include a sale by wholesa lers or retai lers to users or consumers
not for resale, except as otherwise speci fied.
WHOLESALER: A person doing a regularly organized wholesale or jobbing business and selling to retail
merchants, jobbers, dealers or other wholesalers, fo r the purpose of resale. (Ord. l -23-79-1 . 1-23-1979, eff.
1-23-1979)
3.01.080 Denial, Suspension, Or Revocation Of Business License Edit

    A. Busi ness License Denial: After a person has made a business license applicat ion to the Citv. the
       application mav be denied for anv of the fo llowing reasons:
             l . The fai lure of the app licant to complv with the requirements of Citv Code. stale or federal
                 laws. or a re2:ulatorv a2:encv requirements.
             2.   Unlawful activities conducted or pem1itted on the premises where the business is located.
             3. False or incomplete infon-nation 2:iven on the app lication.



                                                                                                       Page 3 of 6
B. Business License Suspension or Revocation: An existinQ business license may be. suspended or
   revoked fo r anv of the fo llow in!! reasons:
        I.   A reason under Paragraph A.
       2.    The licensee has obtained or aided a nother person to obtain a Citv lice111Se by fraud or
             deceit.
       3.    The Licen ee refused or interfered with an authorized Citv representati ve inspection of the
             premises or invesf igation e fforts.
       4.    Violation o f relevant City Code bv the agents or emplovees of a licensee.
       5. T he license is bein!! used differently from that for which it was issued.
       6.    Health or safety issues or concerns.
       7.    Anv other reason expresslv provided fo r bv ordinance.
C. Enforcement:
        1. l he Business License Officia l mav. on his/her own initiati\'e. in response to complaints
           from the general pub lic. or anv City department o r divis ion. investi!rnte and 2ather
           evidence of violations o f T itle 3 or ot her circumsta nces which ma v 2:ivc rise to a denia L
           suspension. or revocation.


       2.    T he Bus iness License Officia l has the authority. with or w ithout a hearing. to denv a
             license fo r the reasons provided in Paragraph A. A denial sha ll be effective upon notice
             given to the applicant.
       3. T he Bus iness License Official has the authority to suspend o r revoke a license. w ith or
          w ithout a hea ring. for the reasons in Paragraph B. If the suspension or re\·ocation is due.
          in whole or in part. to a health or safety issue or concern. the decision shal l be effective
          upon notice given to the licensee. otherwise. the suspens ion or revocation sha ll not take
          effect until the after ti.me fo r appeal in Paragraph E has passed. However. if a license is
          suspended or re\'o ked based on hea lth or safety reasons. the partv may a request from the
          Hearing Officer a stav of suspension or revocation upon fi li n!! a n appeal. The hearin2.
          officer shall issue a decision within three business davs o f the reques! o f stav. Any
          operation durin2. the request for stav is an automatic denial.
D. Procedure fo r Business License Denia l. Suspension. or Revocation:
        I. The Business License Offic ial sha ll give its written decisio111 to !he licensee. contain the
           reason for denial. suspension. or revocation. that operation o f the business afner the
           e ffective date is a Class B misdemeanor, and the licensee' s rieht to appeal.


       2.    T he decision shall be sent bv personal service or bv certified mail to the licensee business
             or home address.


E. Appeals:
        I.   Appeals of the Business License Official's decision to deny. suspend or revoke a li cense
             o r rega rd i.no the application o f this T itle 3 mav be made lo the Citv's Hearin!.! Officer by
             fi li.mg a written notice of appeal \\'ith the C itv Recorder w itlaiffl 10 davs of receipt of the
             notice of denia l. susper1si.offl or revocation.




                                                                                                       Page 4 of 6
        2 . The notice of appeal shall be in writing a nd shall set forth wit h spccific iny the reasons for
            which rhe appeal is taken. The wri tten statement mav not be more thatlll five pages. w ith
            one-inch marnins. 12-point T imes New Roman fo nt. sing-le-spaced that conciselv : {i)
            explains the appellant's standing to appeal: ( ii) identifies rile alleged e1Tor that is the
            2:rounds fo r the appeal: and (i ii) provides reasons the appellal!lt claims the applicable
            decision was made in error.
r . Hearing:,
        1.   /\ hearing sha ll be at a time. place. and day set bv the Hearin!?: Officer. but not later than
             2 1 days a fter receipt of the notice o f appeal.
        2.   At the hearin1!'. the Business License Official s ha ll present the reaso ns fo r the decision to
             denv. suspend. or revoke the license.
        3.   T he appellant. in person or through his or her attomev. mav then present any evidence
             showing the reason whv the decision was in error.
        4.   If the de nia l. suspension. or revocation appea led fro m is based on a find ing bv the
             buildi112: division. plannin2: and zonin2: division. fire department. health department or
             police department that the business was or would be in vio lation of their applicable
             ord inances or re!mlations. and the di vision or department in question has fu lfilled the
             procedural req uirement s in a ll appl icabl e ordinances. statutes and mies pri or to making
             such finding. then that findin !! sha ll be conclusive on the Hearin2 O fficer. and the
             Hearin!! Officer's decision mav be based onlv on whether the license was properly
             denied. suspended. or revoked because o f the building division's. planninQ and zoning
             di\·ision · s. fi re department's, health department's or pol ice department· s finding.
        5.   If the denial. suspension, or revocation appealed from is based on anv other determination.
             the Hearing O fficer mav examine the factual nature of the grounds and determine whether
             such !!rounds are su ffic ient to sustain the Business License Official's decision.
        6. The Hearing O fficer does not have the aut hority to waive compliance with anv applicable
           provisions of the C ity Code. no r can the Hearing Officer extend deadli nes set fo rth in the
           C ity Code or chan2e the substance or fom1 o f C ity Code.
G . Decision o f the Hear in2: Officer: T he Hearing Officer. after hearing a ll the evidence. s hall
    announce its decision w ithin thirtv days from the date of hearing. T he Hearin!? O fficer ma v affirm
    or reverse the decision of the Business License Official. T he decision shall be in writing and sha ll
    be based upon findin!!s o f fact.
1-1 . Appeali ng the Hearin!? Officer Decision: Anv decision of the Hearin2: Officer mav be appealed to
      the Th ird District Court o f Salt Lake County w ithin thirt v davs from w hen the Heari ng O('ftcer's
      written decisLon is made. A ny appeal made after thirty days is ba1Ted a nd the Hearing O fficer·s
      dec ision will be considered fi na l
        1.   Cond itions: Any licelliie issued pursuant to the prnvisions of th is chapter or of any
             ordinance of this city may be reYoked and any application denied by the go \·erning body
             because of: The failure of the licensee or applicant to comply witk tl:e conditions and
             requiremeAts of this chapter or any ordinances of tl:e city. Unlawful activities conducted
             er permitted on the 13rernises where the business is conducted. Notice, Hea ring;
             Exception: Prior to the rerncation of a license or denial of an application to rene·..v a
             business license, the licensee or app licant shall be gi\·en a notice, which shall state in
             substance that the governing body intends to revoke the business licease or deny the
             application to renew, together with the reason or reasons therefor. at a regu lar or special
             meeting of the governing body (v,·hich shall be al Least lO days and ool more than 30 days



                                                                                                     Page 5 of 6
                                            ~-(~3 : l
    tc I JJa '6t61 tL. I ' 1 6t .-;::: I ·131 ~ . am .
    aq ,( jUO paau S1U83~ldde l-l3A~ pue
                                                                                                         t6tut
                                                        .tp uaaq se4 UO!JB3!(dde l!cll{l JIJl{l (3c!bUJOJU!
. sassau!snq JOj sasuaaq JO] suoneaqdde o4 ( :t~suaa!I uaaq ,(1sno~,a1d JOU a,u~r t[O ll{N,
 pa!uap uoneo![dde aq110 pa?fo.,a~ aq·1             l . ,1 e 1ou 11e4s uogaas S!l:jl JO 18 uonaasqng
 pue sassau :,•.n OU!UJUX9 SS0J9 01 ' U:Hlj Jou Pfc AO.IS asuaaq. a41 .<., ...n OJ SU cl3U9(31.',u lllclScUd
                                                                                                     · OJ
              11
 aq Ol ' Jee de                                sumne   aauep1.   a 9!:                       .
                 e Ol 1lfE!J e SBlj JUB3!fdde JO ~esuea1 :.1 fl 1eet1 OJ '1asunoa ,(q paJuas.udaJ
                                                          .I e41 Jeq1 pue (1uas S! a3!lOU a1ep Bl;jl UJOJJ
