                                    ORDINANCE NO. 2020-19

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
AMENDING CITY CODE RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS FOR KEEPING
ANIMALS.

        WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the Bluffdale Gty Council (the "Gty Council")
authority to enact or amend ordinances that it considers necessary or appropriate for the use and
development of land in the Gtyof Bluffdale (the "Qty''); and

        WHEREAS, the Gty Council desires to change the distance requirements between
buildings from 20 feet to 10 feet; and

      WHEREAS, the Bluffdale Planning Commission has held a public hearing and gave its
recommendation to the Gty Council; and

        WHEREAS, the Gty Council has held a public hearing and reviewed the subject text
amendment and finds that the subject text amendment will enhance the public health, safety, and
welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. Amendment.           The Gty Council hereby amendments BCC 3.10.010
(Definitions) and 3.10.080 (Denial, Suspension, or Revocation of Business License), as shown in
Exhibit A

        SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH, ON THIS 26TH DAY OF AUGUST, 2020 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                       YES     NO      ABSTAIN         ABSENT

                        Councilmember Aston              X
                        Councilmember Crockett           X
                        Councilmember Gaston             X



:Mayor:
             /,l
           /U~
                      iuber
                        Councilmember Hales
                                         Kallas
                                             A~
                                                         X
                                                         X




                                                                                               Page l of4
                                                           EXHIBIT A

                                  (Deletions in strikethrough, additions in underline)

11.20.020: General Definitions

BEE COLONY: A group of bees made up of a queen, drones and workers.
PYGMY GOATS: Pygmy goats include dwarf and pygmy breed goats as well as miniature goats l(a
standard goat bred to a dwarf or pygmy goat)bs11                                        ·
LARGE ANIMALS: Cows, horses, sheep, goats, pigs or hogs, and other similar animals for
agricultural or domesticated purposes.


11.16.280: KEEPING OF ANIMALS:
    A The keeping of large animals is allowed as follows:
    In the A-5, R-1-43, and R-1-87 zones, on lots greaterthan one-half (1/ 2) acre it is permitted to
    keep two (2) cows, two (2) horses, five (5) sheep, five (5) goats, or two (2) pigs/ hogs per one-
    half ('h) acre. Twenty-five (25) chickens or twenty (25) pheasants or similar fowl are equal to one
    large animal.

          1. Young pigs/ hogs, born of personal stock are counted as adults at 12 weeks and all other
     young animals born of personal stock are counted as adults at 6 months. Any unlisted animal
     will be compared with those listed by size and weight by the Zoning Administrator or designee.

     B. Table of allowed animal uses:

 Animals                 Zone                        Lot Size                    Number
                         All Residential Single
                                                     greater than or equal to
 Oiickens                Family Zones, except                                                 3 per 5000 SF
                                                     5000 SF
                         R-1-43 and R-1-87
                                                                                 2 colonies on lots less than or equal to
                         R-1-10, R-1-43, and R-                                  0.50 acres, 4 colonies on lots greater
 Bees                    1-43: CRO/PRD               greater than 10,000 SF      than 0.50 acres (up to 1.0 acre), with 1
                         Zones                                                   additional colony for each additional
                                                                                 0.50 acres.
                         R-1-10 (Not permined
 P ygmy Goats, in
                         in CRO developments
 zones where large                                   greater or equal to
                         in the R-1-43 zones (i.e.                               2 per lot maximum
 animals are not                                     10,000 SF
                         Pany Farms and Spring
 allowed
                         View Farms)
                                                     On lots greater than or
                         R-1-43, R-1-87, A-5",       equal to 0.50 acres per
                         which are not               existing code (see 11-16-   2 Horses, cows, or pigs or 5 sheep or
                         developed as a CRO          280 above).      On lots    goats, or 25 chickens, fowls, or
 Large Animals           zone (i.e. Pany Farms       less than 0.50 acre,        pheasants (equal to 1 large animal) on
                         and Spring View             standards      in     the   lots !es s than O.50 acre
                         Farms)                      following column shall
                                                     govern

* These standards do not apply to properties located in the A-5 Zone which are at least 5 contiguous acres in size. Properties in the A-
S Zone which are not 5 acres or more in size shall adhere to the animal limits set forth in the R-1-43 Zone and 11-16-280.




                                                                                                                             Page 2 of4
C. In addition, the following standards shall apply for raising chickens:
        1. Chickens may not be pennitted to roam beyond the locational requirements for
            enclosures, pen, coops, and run areas.
       2. Accessory structures housing chickens shall be a minimum of twenty feet (20') from
          the nearest primary structure or habitable dwelling on adjoining properties.
       3. Slaughtering/processing chickens is not allowed.
       4. Owners are responsible for the maintenance and cleanliness of chicken facilities.
       5. (Chicken C.are And Maintenance Guidelines: b-s21The raising of residential chickens
           and egg production shall be done in such a way that the use is clearly subordinate to
           the residential character of the property with no significant impacts or nuisances
           being created for the residential neighborhood in general and adjoining property
           owners in particular.
       6. Feed 0:mtainers: The storage and accessibility of chicken feed shall be so handled to
          discourage rodents, other vermin, and predators.
       7. Nuisance: Property owners will ensure that the raising of residential chickens and egg
          production is properly conducted and monitored to not create impacts to neighbors .
          Approval to raise residential chickens shall include the construction and maintenance
          of adequate and comely coops, pens, enclosures, and property fencing that will
          confine chickens to the property and that do not adversely affect neighborhood
          property values. 'Die maintenance and cleanliness of facilities and equipment shall be
          the ongoing responsibility of the property owner.
       8. Roosters are not allowed in the R-1-10 zone, or the CRO and PRD subdivisions
          within the R-1-43 zone.




                                                                                         Page3of4
11.350.030: TABLE OF PERMITTED, CONDITIONAL, AND ACCESSORY USES FOR
RESIDENTIAL ZONES:



j ~ . ,   for the conlinemem er erotectioR of 8f!ffilills


The keeping of 2 cows, 2 horses, 5 sheep, 5 goats, or 2                   p          N           p         N
pigs/hogs per ;4 acre. 25 chickens or 25 pheasants or similar
fowl are eaual to 1 laf2'e animal


~
  1. Young pigs/hogs, born of personal steel(; are counted as adult at 12 weeks and all other young
animals born of personal stock are colHlted as adults at 6 months. Any unlisted animal :will be
compared with those listed by size and weight by the Zoning Administrator or designee. These
standards do not apply to properties located in the A 5 Zone which are at least 5 contiguous acres in
size. Properties in the A 5 Zone v.rhich are not 5 acres or more in size shall adhere to the animal
l:i.mits set forth in the R 1 43 Zone.




                                                                                             Page 4 of 4
                                  BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL
                                     MEETING MINUTES
                                   Wednesday, August 26, 2020


Wendy Asto n was in favo r of using lot size to determine the ability to keep small animals and gave
specific examples. She supported the keepi ng o r chickens a nd bees but not pygmy goats because
they are cuITently considered a large animal. Dave Kallas commented that pygmy goats are ve,y
small and qui et.

Mark Hales stated that property owners should be a llowed to keep the an imals they des ire on their
property.

Jeff Gasto n commented that animals are approved to speci fie secti ons or the C ity. If residents
vvant to keep animals. they should move to those areas.

Dave Kallas s uggested that the requirement be 10,000 square fe el and that residents be allowed to
have two beehives. He commented that beehives pose an issue because they split. Mr. Crowell
s tated that there is an argument as to \,vhether bees should be categorized as small animal s. He \Nas
not sure if beehives are addressed in the R-1-43 zone.

Mayor Timothy opened the public hearing. There were no public comments. The publi c hearing
was closed.

Dave Kallas moved to approve Ordinance Number 2020-19, amending Titles 11-2, 11-16 and
J1-35 regarding Chicken and Small Animal Requirements in the R-1-43 and R-1-10 Zones,
amending the existing Animal Code and creating a New Section, "Keeping of Animals" with
the correction tu the rfiiscd nroposed ordinance table under pyg1J1y, tu add under lot size
"greater than or cquaLto". Mark Hales seconded the motion.

Mayor Timo thy reopened the public hearing to a llow for a de layed respo nse online.

U lises Flynn submitted the follow ing comment online: '"I lhink the divisio n s hould lie in lot s ize.
and maybe have 7.000 to I 0.000 square feet as a cutoff. Lt wo uld be better to do that versus a
geographical split. to avoid west vers us east issue ."

Mayor Timothy closed the public heating.

Vote on motion: Mark Hales-Aye; Wendy Aston-Aye; Jeff Gaston~Aye; Traci Crockett-Aye;
Dave Kallas-Aye. The motion p.issed unanimously.

10.     PUBLIC HEARING - Consideration and Vote on Ordinance 2020-12, Repealing
        Title t 1, Chapter 27 {Residential Facilities for Elderly or Disabled Persons), and
        Enacting Title 14 (Residential Facilities for the Handicapped), Staff Presenter, Todd
        Sheeran.

Mr. Sheeran presented the staff report and snatecl than the intenl is to allow for ho using th at provides
flexibility to elim ina te potentia l barri ers lo ho using oppo1i unities. T he intent was to a llow someone



                                                     12
