                                       ORDINANCE NO. 2020-10

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
AMENDING CITY CODE SECTION 1-7-1(A) (DEPARTMENT AND DIVISIONS)
REGARDING THE ORGANIZATION OF DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS.

       WHEREAS, Utah C.Ode § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the "City'') authority to
enact ordinances that the Bluffdale City C.Ouncil (the "City C.Ouncil") considers necessary or
appropriate for the City; and

       WHEREAS, as the governing body of the City, the City C.Ouncil has delegated most executive
and administrative functions to the appointed City Manager, by ordinance; and

        WHEREAS, the City C.Ouncil desires to enable the City Manager to further act as chief
executive officer and exercise all executive and administrative functions allowed by law; and

        WHEREAS, the City C.Ouncil desires to clarify City ordinances related to an organization
chart of departments and divisions, and the various personnel positions within those departments and
divisions of the City; and

        WHEREAS, the City C.Ouncil has held a public hearing and reviewed the subject text
amendment; and

        WHEREAS, the City C.Ouncil finds that the subject text amendment will enhance the public
health, safety, and general welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

       SECTION 1. Amendment of City Code. Section 1-7-l(A) of the Bluffdale CityC.Ode, as
shown in the attached Exhibit B, is hereby amended.

       SECTION 2. Severability. If anysection, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, pans, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

                                  [SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS]




                                                                                                Page I of2
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH, ON THIS 27TH DAY OF MAY, 2020 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                 YES    NO     ABSTAIN      ABSENT

                       Councilmember Aston        X
                       Councilmember Crockett     X
                       Councilmember Gaston       X
                       Councilmember Hales                X
                       Councilmember Kallas       X



                                                 Attest:~c.J]~          Gina Mi ller, Depu t y Ci t y
                                            on behalf ofQry Recordel' ; Wend y Deppe          Recorde r



Approved as to form:




~




                                                                                   Page 2 of2
                                               EXHIBIT A

                "Redline Version" (additions in underline, deletions in strikethrough)

1-7-1: DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS:

A Departments Created: The City Council Manager shall approve create and maintain an official
organization chart_, prepared and created by the CityNianager and/ or staffof departments, divisions,
and staff positions. The org~nizational strncture, departments and staff positions are and shall be
identified on the organizational chan in addition to individual job descriptions and jab titles as
currently adopted and amended. At a minimum, the departments created by this title include the
Co mmunity Development Depattment, Engineering Department, Public Works Department, and
Fire Departmentln addition to the organization chart, the Citv Manager shaUmaintain a schedule of
individual job cities fo r active pos itions, their detailed job descriptions, and the corresponding position
index with salary ranges. The Citv Manager, by recommendation and approval of the City Council,
mav create ~ dditional departments and divisions as needed may be created without amendment to
this title and by amending the official City organ2ation chart and job descriptions. Except for
department head pos icions listed in Section 1-7-?(A)(7), the Citv Manager Department head positions
and supporting staff pos itions have been created, adopted and amended from time to time by the City
Council. The City Counal-may amend job titles and positions at any time. The City Manager also may
proposeamend departmental or personnel description~ amendments to the City Council as the needs
of the City change.


                                            "Clean Version"

1-7-1: DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS:

A Departments Created: The City Manager shall create and maintain an official organization chart
of departments, divisions, and staff positions. In addition to the organization chart, the City Manager
shall maintain a schedule of individual job titles for active positions, their detailed job descriptions,
and the corresponding position index with salary ranges. The City Manager, by recommendation and
approval of the City Council, may create additional departments and divisions as needed without
amendment to this title. Except for department head positions listed in Section 1-7-2(A)(7), the City
Manager may amend job titles and positions at any time. The City Manager also may amend
departmental or personnel descriptions as the needs of the City change.


                                           "Original Version"

1-7-1: DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS:

A Departments Created: The City Council shall approve an official organization chart, prepared and
created by the City Manager and/ or staff. The organizational structure, departments and staff
positions are and shall be identified on the organizational chart in addition to individual job
descriptions and job titles as currently adopted and amended. At a minimum, the departments created
by this title include the Community Development Department, Engineering Department, Public
Works Department, and Fire Department. Additional departments may be created without


                                                                                                     Exhibit A
amendment to this title and by amending the official Gty organization chart and job descriptions.
Department head positions and supporting staff positions have been created, adopted and amended
from time to time by the City C.Ouncil. The Gty C.Ouncil may amend job titles and positions at any
time. The City Manager may propose departmental or personnel description amendments to the City
C.Ouncil as the needs of the City change.




                                                                                           Exhibit A
                                              EXHIBIT B

                "Redline Version" (additions in underline, deletions in mi.kethr-0ugh)

1-7-1: DEPARTMENTS AND DIVISIONS:

  A Departments Created: The City Council shall approve an official organization chart, prepared
and created by the City Manager and/ or staff. The organizational structure, departments and staff
positions are and shall be identified on the organizational chart, blank "-~th job titles only, in addition
to individual job descriptions and job titles as currently adopted and amended. At a minimum, the
departments created by this title include the Community Development Department, Engineering
Department, Public Works Department, and Fire Department. Additional departments may be
created without amendment to this title and by amending the official City organization chart and job
descriptions. Department head positions and supporting staff positions have been created, adopted
and amended from time to time by the City Council. The City Council may amend job titles and
positions at anytime. The City Manager may propose or make temporary changes to the organizational
chart as long as the Citv 1V1anager provides ,,1itten notice to the City Council. If anv member disagrees
\\~th the changes. it ,viii be brought to the City Council for vote. departmentz.J or personnel description
amendments to the City Council as the needs of the City change.



                                           "Clean Version"

  A Departments Created: The City Council shall approve an official organization chart, prepared
and created by the City Manager and/ or staff. The organizational structure, departments and staff
positions are and shall be identified on the organizational chart, blank with job titles only, in addition
to individual job descriptions and job titles as currently adopted and amended. At a minimum, the
departments created by this title include the Community Development Department, Engineering
Department, Public Works D epartment, and Fire Department. Additional departments may be
created without amendment to this title and by amending the official City organization chart and job
descriptions. Department head positions and supporting staff pos itions have been created, adopted
and amended from time to time by the City Council. The City Council may amend job titles and
positions at anytime. The City Manager may propose or make temporary changes to the organizational
chart as long as the City Manager provides written notice to the City Council. If any member disagrees
with the changes, it will be brought to the City Council for vote.



                                          "Original Version"

  A D epartments Created: The City Council shall approve an official organization chart, prepared
and created by the City Manager and/ or staff. The organizational structure, departments and staff
positions are and shall be identified on the organizational chart in addition to individual job
descriptions and job titles as currently adopted and amended. At a minimum, the departments created
by this title include the Community Development Department, Engineering Department, Public


                                                                                                   Exhibit B
Works Department, and Fire Department. Additional depanments may be created without
amendment to this title and by amending the official City organization chan and job descriptions.
Depanment head positions and supponing staff positions have been created, adopted and amended
from time to time by the City C.Ouncil. The City C.ouncil may amend job titles and positions at any
time. The City Manager may propose depanmental or personnel description amendments to the City
C.ouncil as the needs of the City change.




                                                                                            Exhibit B
