                                CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2020-01

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 1, CHAPTER 10, OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY
CODE RELATED TO BID LIMITS.

WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale ("City") has adopted a Procurement Policy, codified as Title
1, Chapter 10, of the Bluffdale City Code;

WHEREAS the City desires to amend its Procurement Policy to adjust the limits for
procurements requiring no bids, those requiring info1111al bids, those requiring written bids, and
those that must solicit an invitation for bids, and

WHEREAS, following due consideration of relevant information, the Bluffdale City Council
has detennined that the following amendments to the bid limits further the efficiency and
economy and promote the public health, safety, and general welfare;

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL HEREBY ORDAINS AS
FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.    Amendment of Bluffdale City Code. Section 1-10-1 of the Bluffdale
City Code is hereby amended as follows:

1-10-1: GENERAL PROVISIONS:

       B.      Compliance; Exemptions Fromfrom Chapter:



               5. Procurements with a dollar amount greater than five hundred two thousand
                  dollars ($WG2,000.00), shall be approved by the city manager or designee.
               6. For all procurements not otherwise budgeted, such determination may only be
                  approved by the city council.



1-10-3: SOURCE SELECTION AND CONTRACT FORMATION; GENERAL
PROVISIONS:



       A. Purchase Order Requirements; Exception:

            1. Any procurement over ~             two thousand dollars ($~ 2,000.00) in total
               shall be accompanied by a purchase order signed by the department head and city
               manager or designee. For purposes of this requirement, no purchase shall be
                 divided in portions so as to make each purchase order less than or equal to #ve
                 mmdrecl two th0usand dollars ($-WG2,000.00).



          B. Procurements Requiring No Bid:

             1. Procurements with a dollar amount of .fi.¥e-..l:1:U1clrecl two th0usand dollars
                ($.§002,000.00) or less shall not require bids of any type. However, two (2)
                telephone and/or e-mail quotes are encouraged.




          C. Procurements Requiring Bids:

          1. Procurements with a dollar amount over five hundred two thousand dollars
             ($.§-002,000.00) but less and not mo1·e than ~eight thousand dollars ($~Q,000.00)
             shall require a minimum of three (3) documented telephone bids, ancl/or e-mail bids~
             or internet quotes.
          2. Procurements with a dollar amount over fwe-eight thousand dollars ($~Q,000.00) mtt
             less-and not more than t>.venty five thirty thousand dollars ($~30,000.00) shall
             require a minimum of three (3) written bids.
          3. Any procurement in excess of tw~nty five thirty thousand dollars ($~ 30,000.00)
             shall require a legal notice in a local newspaper of general publication. An invitation
             for bids shall be issued when a contract is to be awarded by competitive bidding. The
             invitation shall include a purchase desc1iption and all contractual terms and
             conditions applicable to the procurement. Public notice of the invitation for bids shall
             be published at least twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least
             five (5) days p1ior to the date set forth therein for the opening of bids.




       Section 2.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or
posting, or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.




Attest:
    Voting by the City Council:     Yes   No

           Councilmember Aston      - X
                                      - ---
           Councilmember Crockett    x
                                    - ----
           Councilmember Gaston     --X ---
           Councilmember Hales      - x
                                      -- - -
           Councilmember Kallas     ___x_ _ _




\
