                                      BLUFFDALE CITY
                                     ORDINANCE 2021-05

 AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
    AMENDING BLUFFDALE CITY CODE 11.110.070.130 (LIVE/WORK UNITS
     LOCATION STANDARDS, PERMITTED USES, AND DEVELOPMENT
                           STANDARDS).

       WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants Bluffdale City (the "City") authority to enact
ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council (the "City Council") considered necessary or
appropriate for the use and development of land within the City; and

         WHEREAS, the subject text amendment modifies the permitted uses in the "live/work"
units in the mixed-use zone; and

      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and gave the City Council its
recommendation; and

        WHEREAS, after holding and public hearing and reviewing the subject text amendment,
the City Council finds that the subject text amendment will enhance public health, safety, and
welfare.

       NOW THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Council of Bluffdale City, in the State of
Utah, as follows:


       SECTION 1:            AMENDMENT “11.11.070.130 Live/Work Units Location
Standards, Permitted Uses, And Development Standards” of the Bluffdale Municipal Code is
hereby amended as follows:


                                       AMEN DMEN T

11.11.070.130 Live/Work Units Location Standards, Permitted Uses, And Development Standards

Live/work units are permitted uses in single-family attached (townhomes) or multi-family
residential designated areas shown in the approved project plan and based upon the approval of a
site plan and compliance with the following standards:

    A. Location Standards: Live/work units shall be located based upon compliance with the
       following standards:
            1. The units shall be located facing a public street.
            2. If not located directly on, the units shall be located within three hundred feet (300')
               of a major arterial or collector road.
            3. The units shall be located on property designated for live/work units as shown in
               the approved project plan.
            4. The units shall be within a multiple-family or single-family attached dwelling unit
               as shown in an approved project plan.
       2. If not located directly on, the units shall be located within three hundred feet (300')
           of a major arterial or collector road.
       3. The units shall be located on property designated for live/work units as shown in
           the approved project plan.
       4. The units shall be within a multiple-family or single-family attached dwelling unit
           as shown in an approved project plan.
B. Permitted Uses:

   Professional, administrative and business services such as:

   Architects and other design professionals.

   Attorneys.

   Billing services.

   Consulting or business services.

   Electronic and computer repair.

   Estate planners.

   Income tax services and accountants.

   Interior decorators.

   Internet or web oriented businesses.

   Music teachers.

   Photography studios.

   Professional Services.

   Personal Service Establishments.

   Real estate professionals.

   Uses substantially similar to the listed permitted.

   Professional art studios such as:

   Ceramic and pottery studios.

   Fine art studios.

   Jewelry studios.

   Photographic studios.

   Video production studios.

   Uses substantially similar to the listed permitted.
        Jewelry studios.

        Photographic studios.

        Video production studios.

        Uses substantially similar to the listed permitted.
     C. Prohibited Uses:

       Businesses open for sales and customers between nine o'clock (9:00) P.M. and nine
       o'clock (9:00) A.M.
       Food preparation and sales.
    D. Maximum Size Of Work Area: The work area of the unit shall be a maximum of five
       hundred (500) square feet.
    E. Location Of Work Area: The work area shall be located on the ground floor and shall open
       onto a public street.
    F. Employees: A maximum of one employee, in addition to the residents of the dwelling, may
       work on the premises at any given time. This shall not be construed to limit the total
       number of outside employees involved with the business.

       At least one of the full time employees of the business shall reside full time in the dwelling
       unit portion of the live/work unit.
    G. Signage: Signage shall be limited to a maximum four (4) square foot, nonlighted sign
       affixed to the building and adjacent to the entry door and shall be required to obtain
       approval of a city sign permit. A complete city sign permit application shall be
       accompanied by written approval from the applicable design review or architectural
       control committee which oversees portions of approved project plans where live/work
       units are located.
    H. Customer Parking: Customer parking is permitted on street as permitted by the approved
       project plan and city ordinances and in parking spaces located behind the live/work units
       along the rear alley in addition to the minimum required spaces for the residential unit.
       (Ord. 2013-20, 12-17-2013)


        SECTION 2:             SEVERABILITY CLAUSE Should any part or provision of this
Ordinance be declared by the courts to be unconstitutional or invalid, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the Ordinances a whole or any part thereof other than the part so declared to be
unconstitutional or invalid.

      SECTION 3:             EFFECTIVE DATE This Ordinance shall become effective
immediately upon publication or posting as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL MARCH 24, 2021.

                                    AYE   NAY      ABSENT        ABSTAIN
Councilmember Aston                  X
Councilmember Crockett               X
Councilmember Gaston                 X
Councilmember Hales                  X
Councilmember Kallas                 X

                                          Attest




P residing O fficer



Derk P. Timothy, Mayor, Bluffdale         Wendy Deppe, City Recorder
City                                      Bluffdale City
