                                CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2022-20

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 8-6 OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY CODE
RELATED TO STORM WATER DISCHARGES.

WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale desires to amend the Bluffdale City Code relative to allowable
non-storm water discharges; and

WHEREAS, following due consideration of relevant information, the Bluffdale C ity Council
has determined that the proposed ordinance amendment wi ll promote the public health, safety,
and general welfare;                                                                     ·

NOW, THEREFORE, THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL HEREBY ORDAINS AS
FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.   Amendment of Bluffdale City Code. Chapter 8-6 of the Bluffdale City
Code is hereby amended as set forth in Exhibit A.

       Section 2.       Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or
posting, or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.


          PASSED AND ADOPTED: December 14, 2022.




Attest:




Voting by the City Co uncil :         Yes    No

          Councilmember Aston
          Councilmember Crockett
          Councilmember Gaston
          Councilmember Hales
          Councilmember Kallas
EXHIBIT A
8.60.090 Illicit Discharges

    A. Scope: This section shall apply to all water generated on developed or undeveloped land-afHi
         entering the City's storm drain s1,stem.

    B.   Prohibition Of Illicit Discharges: No person shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the
         City's storm drain system any discharge that is not composed entirely of stormwater. The
         commencement, conduct or continuance of any non.::stormwater discharge to the City's storm
         drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:

             1. Uncontaminated discharges from the following sources:

                      a.   Water line flushing or other potable or secondary water sources;

                      b.   Uncontaminated landscape irrigation;

                      c.   Diverted stream flows;

                      d.   Rising groundwater;

                      e.   Uncontaminated Ggroundwater infiltration to storm drains;

                      f.   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater;

                      g.   Foundation or footing drains;

                      h.   Crawl space pumps;

                      i.   Uncontaminated air conditioning condensation;

                      j.   Springs;

                      k.   Natural riparian habitat or wetland flows;

                      I.   Swimming pools (if dechlorinated - typically less than 1 ppm chlorine);

                      m. Firefighting activities; aR€I

                      !!.:_Any other uncontaminated water source .Individua l residential car washing;

                      o.   Dechlori nated water reservoir discharges;

                      p. Irrigation water;

                      q. Lawn watering runoff;

                      fH . Residentia l street wash water;
         2.   Discharges specified in writing by the City Engineer as being necessary to protect public
              health and safety.

         3.   Dye testing is an allowable discharge if the City Engineer has so specified in writing.

         4.   The prohibition shall not apply to any non:stormwater discharge permitted under a
              UPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge ord er issued to the discharger and
              administered under the authority of the State of Utah Divisio n of Water Quality;
              provided, that the discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit,
              waiver, or order and other applicable laws and regulations; and provided, that written
              approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.

C.   Prohibition Of Illicit Connections :

         1. The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of illicit connections to the
              City's storm drain system is prohibited.

         2. This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit connections made in the
              past, regardless of whether the connection was permissible under law or practices
              applicable or prevailing at the time of connection.

D. Reduction Of Stormwater Pollutants By The Use Of Best Management Practices: Any person
     respon sible for a property or premises, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
     may be required to implement, at the person's expense, the BMPs necessary to prevent the
     further discharge of pollutants to the City's storm drain system. Compliance with all terms and
     conditions of a valid UP DES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
     industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of
     this section.

E.   Notification Of Spills: Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person
     responsible for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a facility or
     operation, has information of any known or suspected release of materials which are resulting
     in, or may result in, illicit discharges or pollutants discharging into stormwater, and the City's
     storm drain system, the person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
     containment, and cleanup of such release . In the event of such a release of hazardous materials,
     the person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the occurrence via
     emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of nonhazardous materials, the person
     shall notify the City Engineer in person or by telephone or facsimile no later than the next
     business day. Notifications in person or by telephone shall be confirmed by written notice
     addressed and mailed to the City Engineer within three (3) business days of the telephone
     notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or industrial
     establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall also retain an on site written
     record of the discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be
     retained for a minimum of three (3) years. (Ord. 2013-04, 5-28-2013)
