                                       ORDINANCE NO. 2022-18


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING BLUFFDALE
CITY CODE 11.20.020 (DEFINITIONS), 11.160 (SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS) AND 11.80
(RESIDENTIAL ZONES) UPDATING THE STANDARDS RELATED TO ALLOWED LOCATIONS FOR SMALL
ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES INCLUDING LOT COVERAGE

         WH EREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the City") authority to enact
ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council (the "City Council") considers necessary or appropriate
for the use and development of land within the City; and

        WHEREAS, the subject text amendment modifies the regulations for the placement ofsmall
accessory buildings, including setbacks and overall lot coverage in certain residential zones to
increase flexibility for storage and property usage; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and gave the City Council its
recommendation; and

        WHEREAS, after holding a public hearing and reviewing the subject text amendment, the
City Council finds that thesubjecttext amendment will not negatively impact public health, safety,
and welfare.


NOW,THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. Amendment. Bluffdale City Code is hereby amended             follows:

                                             See Exhibit A


         SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance
and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS 9th DAY OF
November,2022, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                        YES      NO      ABSTAIN        ABSENT


                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Crockett
                                                             /
                                                                     /
                        Councilmember Gaston
                                                        —        -




                        Councilmember Hales                          /
                        Councilmember Kallas
                        Mayor Hall
                                                       -V-

                                                                                                Page 1 of 3
Mayon   ttest:
                 City Recorder




        CORPORATE




                                 Page 2 of 3
Exhibit A-Small Accessory Buildings Ordinance Amendments




                                                           Page 3of3
ExhibitA.Zoning Ordinance Changesfor SmallAccessory Buildines



Amend Existing Definition

11.20.020 General Definitions




PORTABLE SMALL ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE: Aw small accessory building or. compact
structure that is 400 square feet or less.mounted on skids or othorwiso conGtructod so thot it con be
rcodily movGd from one location to onothcr without change in structure or dooign. Small accessory
         buildings shall have no connoctod utilities with the exception of electric power, that con bo




Amend Existing Land Use Code

11.160.230: Construction Within Easements


No dwelling, main building, accessory structures, portoblo small accessory building or structure, or
swimming pool shall be located within a recorded easement area unless the property owner either
produces written evidence satisfactory to the Zoning Administrator that the easement has been
released, modified, allowed to be encroached upon, or executes a recordable document,in a form
approved by the Ceity Aettorney,indicating that notwithstanding apparent existence of the easement,
the structure may be subject to the superior interest of the easement holder and may be required to
be relocated at the property owner's expense to accommodate such interest. The City is considered to
have an interest within Public Utility Easements in subdivisions, to be verified by the City Engineer.

A. Location: Any structure in an easement area shall be located pursuant to the setback and other
    applicable requirements of this title.

B. No Expansion Of Legal Rights: Nothing in this section is intended to expand or restrict the rights or
    obligations of any party to any recorded easement.




11.160.260 Portable Small Accessory Buildings and Structures

    A. Portobic Small accessory buildings and structures shall be allowed to be constructed in any
        residential zone within anv required rear or side yard setbacks,subject to the following
        requirements:
            1. Rortoblo Small accessory buildings and structures shall be subject to the permit and
                construction requirements of all adopted building and fire codes;
            2. Shall not be constructed closer than two (2*) feet to any side or rea r# property line.
           3. Shall adhere to the requirements of City Code section 11.160.230 16 25 if proposed
               to be constructed within recorded utility easements;
           4. Shall be limited to a maximum of 400 square feet in floor area, which shall be
              Included in a parcel's overall lot coverage;
           5. Shall have a maximum wall height of 120 feet, excluding end gables, and a maximum
              roofllne height of 165 feet;
           6. Shall be used for storage use only;
           7. Sholl Mav be located in the rear or side vard. no less than 10 feet behind the front
               vertical plane of the most rearward wall ofthc primarv of the dwelling:
           8. Shall not overhang into ordirect any drainage from the building or foundation into
               any adjacent property.

   B. Portable Small accessory buildings and structures within any non-residential zone may be
      allowed within any rear or side yard setbacks without setback limitations,subject to the
      following requirements:
      1. Shall conform to all site plan approval and design requirements found in City
           Ordinances;
       2. Shall besubject to the permit and construction requirements of all adopted building
           and fire codes;
       3. Shalladhere to the requirementsof City Code section 11.160.230-15-?5 if proposed to be
           constructed within easements;
       4. Shall be limited to a maximum of 400 square feet in floor area, which shall be included In
           a parcel's overall lot coverage;
       5. Shall have a maximum wall height of 120 feet, excluding end gables,and a maximum
          roofllne height of 165 feet;
       6. Shall be used for storage use only;
       7. Shall be located in the rear yard, behind the vertical plane of the most rearward wall of
           the primary structure;
       8. Shall not overhang into or direct any drainage from the building or foundation into any
           adjacent property.

R-1-43 specific changes

11.80.010.110 Permissible Lot Coverage
The sum total of all buildings and structures on any parcel In the R-1-43 Residential Zone shall not be
greater than thirty percent(30%)of the total area of the parcel. In the subdivisions within Parry Farms
and Spring View Farms, which were approved as Clustered Residential Overlay Zones, the maximum
permissible lot coverage is forty percent(40%)of the total area of the parcel.


11.80.010.100 Distance Between Buildings
The distance between any accessory building and any dwelling shall not be less than ten feet(IC). The
distance between any accessory building and another accessory building shall not be less than two feet
121
R-1-10 Specific Changes

11.80.020.100 Distance Between Buildings
The distance between any accessory buildlng-.and any dwelling shall not be less than ten feet flO.The
distance between any accessory building and another accessory building shall not be less than two feet
121
