ORDINANCE NO. 2023-24

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING
BLUFFDALE CITY CODE 11.160.140 (SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS) REGARDING FRONT
YARD FENCING REQUIREMENTS ALONG ARTERIAL ROADS

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants Bluffdale City (the "City") authority to enact
ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council (the "City Council") considered necessary or
appropriate for the use and development of land within the City; and

WHEREAS, the subject text amendment modifies the regulations for allowed front yard
fencing height in residential zones along arterial roads for increased safety and privacy; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing and gave the City Council its
recommendation; and

WHEREAS, after holding a public hearing and reviewing the subject text amendment,
the City Council finds that the subject text amendment will enhance public health, safety, and
welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH:

SECTION 1. Amendment. Section 11.160.140 of the Bluffdale City Code is hereby
amended as follows:

11.160.140 Fences And Walls
A. Residential Zones:

1. No fence, wall, living fence or similar device extending into or enclosing all or part of the
front setback shall be constructed or maintained at a height greater than forty two
inches (42"), unless the fence is chainlink or another open mesh fence. The fence must
remain nonsight obscuring (defined as at least 70 percent open space when viewed
from either side of the fence) and shall not exceed sixty inches (60") in height. The
permitted height of any fence, wall, living fence or similar sight obscuring device
situated within any other portion of a lot shall be eight feet (8'), except where the vision
of an adjacent driveway may be affected.

1. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a fence enclosing all or part of a front setback
on a parcel or lot which fronts directly on an existing arterial road as shown on
the most current adopted City of Bluffdale Transportation Plan, is allowed to
construct a sight obscuring or solid fence up to six (6’) in height, t where

the vision of an adjacent driveway may be affected.
2. Any fence that may affect the vision of an adjacent driveway shall satisfy the following
conditions:
1. The fence shall not be sight obscuring and shall be constructed of chainlink or
other similar material and be no less than seventy percent (70%) open space; or

Page 1 of 3
2. The fence shall be terminated no less than twenty feet (20') in each direction
from the front corner of the lot adjacent to the affected driveway, thus forming
a line of sight triangle; or
3. The fence shall be no more than forty two inches (42") in height at a point no
less than twenty feet (20') in each direction from the front corner of the lot
adjacent to the affected driveway, thus forming a line of sight triangle; or
4. The owner of the affected driveway may, in writing, waive the fencing
restrictions for the adjacent lot; provided, that it can be shown that the backing
of vehicles can be accomplished in a safe manner.
3. Applicants for a fence greater than eight feet (8') in height must receive a conditional
use permit in accordance with chapter 20 of this title. Minimum fence height for multi-
family units is six feet (6').

SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be
severable.

SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

Page 2 of 3
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS
8th DAY OF NOVEMBER, 2023, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

YES NO _ ABSTAIN ABSENT

Councilmember Aston
Councilmember Crockett
Councilmember Gaston
Councilmember Hales
Councilmember Kallas

INNING
|

Page 3 of 3
Bluffdale Transportation Plan 34

Functional Classification Ma

=
So
o
™
N
f 14400 S.
= :
¢,
° 4
sey,
“ey
®, 15000 S.
*,
®,
in, ey,
pM
&

BH Existing Signal

& Future Signal

(@) Existing Roundabout

(@) Future Roundabout
mee Freeway

=== Future Freeway
o—ee Arterial
=== Future Arterial
sem Major Collector
“er Future Major Collector
=== Minor Collector
=== Future Minor Collector

“City could consider a roundabout at these locations after
a detailed traffic study is completed for the intersection.

“City could consider a reduced cross-section at this location.

0 4 Mile | Sa
Ea ae)

Figure 22. Existing and proposed roadway functional class within Bluffdale.

Existing arterial roads are Redwood Road, 14600 South, and Porter Rockwell Boulevard. Of all these,
14600 South probably retains its residential character the most, but is also experiencing increasing
traffic and speeds annually, with widening planned in the future.

Text Amendment Application — City Initiated 11.160.140 Front Yard Fencing
October 4, 2023 - Planning Commission Meeting
Page 2
The proposed amendment language limits the opaque front yard fence to 6’ (72”), rather than the 8’
allowed in the rest of the yard and is shown here:

11.160.140

Fences And Walls

A. Residential Zones:

oo

3.

No fence, wall, living fence or similar device extending into or enclosing all or part of the
front setback shall be constructed or maintained at a height greater than forty two
inches (42"), unless the fence is chainlink or another open mesh fence. The fence must
remain nonsight obscuring (defined as at least 70 percent open space when viewed
from either side of the fence) and shall not exceed sixty inches (60") in height. The
permitted height of any fence, wall, living fence or similar sight obscuring device
situated within any other portion of a lot shall be eight feet (8'), except where the vision
of an adjacent driveway may be affected.
1. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a fence enclosing all or part of a front setback
on a parcel or lot which fronts directly on an existing arterial road as shown on

the most current adopted City of Bluffdale Transportation Plan, is allowed to

construct a sight obscuring or solid fence up to six (6’) in height, except where
the vision of an adjacent driveway may be affected.
Any fence that may affect the vision of an adjacent driveway shall satisfy the following
conditions:
1. The fence shall not be sight obscuring and shall be constructed of chainlink or
other similar material and be no less than seventy percent (70%) open space; or
2. The fence shall be terminated no less than twenty feet (20') in each direction
from the front corner of the lot adjacent to the affected driveway, thus forming
a line of sight triangle; or
3. The fence shall be no more than forty two inches (42") in height at a point no
less than twenty feet (20') in each direction from the front corner of the lot
adjacent to the affected driveway, thus forming a line of sight triangle; or
4. The owner of the affected driveway may, in writing, waive the fencing
restrictions for the adjacent lot; provided, that it can be shown that the backing
of vehicles can be accomplished in a safe manner.
Applicants for a fence greater than eight feet (8') in height must receive a conditional
use permit in accordance with chapter 20 of this title. Minimum fence height for multi-
family units is six feet (6').

POSSIBLE FINDINGS FOR TEXT AMENDMENT APPLICATION:

The Planning Commission is encouraged to provide findings for a decision to recommend approval or
deny the text amendment application. Text amendments are discretionary legislative actions by the
City Council following a recommendation from the Planning Commission.

If the Planning Commission determines to recommend approval of the text amendment application,

the following may be possible findings:

1. That the proposed amendment acknowledges the increased traffic and speeds along arterial
roads and provides additional options for safety and privacy in these unique locations.

2. That the amendment is limited geographically in the community.

Text Amendment Application - City Initiated 11.160.140 Front Yard Fencing
October 4, 2023 - Planning Commission Meeting
Page 3
MODEL MOTIONS — FOR TEXT AMENDMENT APPLICATION:

Motion for Recommendation - “I move we recommend approval to the City Council for the text
amendment application as proposed, Application 2023-36, subject to the conditions and based on the
findings presented in the staff report dated September 27, 2023, (or as modified by the conditions
below):”

1. List any additional findings and/or conditions...

Text Amendment Application - City Initiated 11.160.140 Front Yard Fencing
October 4, 2023 - Planning Commission Meeting
Page 4
