                                     CITY OF BLUFFDALE,UTAH
                                      ORDINANCE NO. 2023-19


AN    ORDINANCE SPECIFYING THE AMOUNT OF WATER TO BE SECURED BY PARTIES
CONNECTING TO THE CITY SECONDARY WATER SYSTEM


        WHEREAS,Water Is a limited resource with limited availability; and

       WHEREAS,the Bluffdale City Council has determined that it is unreasonable and not in the
public interest for existing development to bear the burden and responsibility of securing and
assuring that water is available for future customers; and

NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:

      Section 1. Amendment of Bluffdale City Code Chapter 8.50 of the Bluffdale City Code is
hereby amended as follows:

8.50.010 Liberal Construction
The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed to effectively carry out its purposes in the
interests of furthering, promoting and protecting the public health,safety and welfare.(Ord.2018-
12,5-23-2018)

8.50.020 Definitions
IRRIGABLE AREA:The maximum area capable of being irrigated.
WATER RIGHTS: Right granted by the State to use a specific amount of water from a specific source
for a beneficial use at a specific place.
WATER SHARES: Share of stock in a mutual water company that entitles the holder to a portion of
the company's water right(s).(Ord.2018-12,5-23-2018)

8.50.030 Water Required
     1. Residential Development:The developer of any residential subdivision project, builder of a
        stand-alone dwelling or dwellings on an existing parcel or lot of record, or any residential
        project requiring site plan approval shall obtain and convey to the City water shares or
        water rights, equivalent to not less than five (5.0) acre-feet of water per year in volume per
        irrigable acre (ac-ft/irrac)for the purposes of outdoor irrigation of real property developed,
        consistent with irrigation requirements defined by the State Engineer. Said water shares or
        water rights shall be from the Welby-Jacob canal, well,or other source,as approved by the
        City Engineer,for the area to be subdivided or developed. Said irrigable area and water
        amount shall be determined by using sixty percent(60%)of the gross lot(s) area as irrigable
        area or, if necessary,on a case-by-case review based on the type of project, including, but
        not limited to,the amount of building surface, asphalt, and landscaping required for the
        project.
   2. Commercial,Industrial, And Mixed-Use Development:The developer of any non-residential
      project, including commercial,industrial, or mixed-use projects,or any such project
      requiring site plan approval shall obtain and transfer to the City water shares or water
      rights, equivalent to not less than five (5.0) acre-feet of water per year in volume per
      irrigable acre (ac-ft/irr-ac)for the purposes of outdoor irrigation of real property developed,
      consistent with irrigation requirements defined by the State Engineer. Said water shares or
      water rights shall be from a City approved canal, well or other source for each acre or part
      thereof to be subdivided or developed. Said irrigable area and water amount shall be
      determined on a case-by-case review based on the type of project,including, but not limited
      to,the amount of building surface,asphalt, and landscaping required for the project.
   3. General Provisions Applicable To All Development: All shares or rights to be conveyed to the
      City, as required by this section,shall be recognized by the State Engineer and acceptable to
      the City, in their sole judgment. All water shares or rights conveyed to and accepted by the
      City shall be held in the sole ownership of the City upon conveyance of the same.The City
      Manager or designee shall have the right to vote the City's water shares in accordance with
      the applicable rules and regulations governing the same and shall coordinate contacts and
      actions of the City with the respective canal or irrigation companies in which the shares are
      owned. Water shares or water rights shall be associated with particular properties or
      developments unless otherwise arranged for. The City shall retain records,including maps
      or site plans, of approved irrigated areas in order to verify and prove beneficial use of the
      corresponding water shares or water rights.

   4. Fee In Lieu: For any property,the applicant may convey to the City a fee in lieu of the
      required water dedication. Such fee shall be calculated to be equivalent in value to the
      required water, both in quantity and quality. The amount of the fee shall be determined In
      accordance with the Consolidated Fee Schedule.(Ord. 2018-12,5-23-2018)

   5. Any Person desiring a connection to the City water system shall transfer to the City, or
      reimburse the City for,the quantity of water rights/canal shares according to section
       (8.50.030.1).

   6. Water dedicated to the City will be valued by the volume the water right/canal share
      supplies the City in an 80% precipitation year. The City Engineer shall determine whether a
      water right is acceptable for dedication.

8.50.040 Water Sources
Without limiting the requirement for water in BCC 8.50.030,the City may,in its discretion and
subject to availability, allow for the allocation of water already procured by the City to new real
estate development; providing,that the applicant pays the City the costs associated with acquiring
the allocation. In the event that a secondary water source is not readily or reasonably available,the
use of culinary water, at drinking water pricing, may be used in a secondary water system, with the
approval ofthe City Engineer, until a means of conveyance for secondary water is constructed for
the development.(Ord. 2018-12,5-23-2018)
       Section 2. Liberal Construction. The provisions of the Ordinance shall be liberally
construed to effectively carry out its purposes in the interests of furthering, promoting, and
protecting the public health,safety, and welfare.

      Section 3. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect immediately after recording in
the Office of the City Recorder.

PASSED,ADOPTED AND DATED:September 13,2023.




ATTEST:
                                          0(kU(U^aiLP
                                            Mayclr Natalie C. Hall

Tami Timothy, City Recorder

Voting by the City Council:              ■AYE"         ■■NAY"


Councilmember Aston
Councilmember Crockett
Councilmember Gaston
Councilmember Hales
Councilmember Kallas
