                                   City OF Bluffdale, Utah


                                   Ordinance No.2023-05


An Ordinance Amending Section 7.50 Of The Bluffdale City Code Pertaining to the Disposition
OF Significant Real Property


       Whereas,the City of Bluffdale has received various requests to sell, lease or exchange
city owned properties to various parcels of real property owners within the City; and

        Whereas, the City has previously adopted an ordinance governing the disposition of
significant real property;

      Whereas, recent land acquisitions and disposition requests warrant updating and
amending the existing ordinance; and

       Whereas, Section §10-8-2(3) of the Utah Code Annotated requires that a city must
adopt certain procedures, notice requirements and definitions pertaining to real property
that may or may not be deemed "significant" and sold; and

      Whereas, City staff have proposed draft language which, if adopted, would satisfy the
requirements of the Utah Code, which language is attached as Exhibit A; and

      Whereas, the City Council has met in regular session to debate and consider such
proposed amendments.

       Now,Therefore,Be It Ordained by the City Council of the city of Bluffdale as follows:

       Section 1.    Amendment of Bluffdale City Code. Section 7.50 of the Bluffdale City
Code is hereby amended as set forth in Exhibit A.

                                           See Exhibit 'A'


        Section 2.   Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable,such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be
severable.

       Section 3.      Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication or
posting,or thirty (30) days after passage, whichever occurs first.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,ON THIS
25^^ DAY OF JANUARY 2023, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                YES       NO    ABSTAIN     ABSENT


                    Counciimember Aston           X
                    Councilmember Crockett        X
                    Counciimember Gaston          X
                    Councilmember Hales           X
                    Counciimember Kallas          X




Mayor:                                          Attest:
                                                               dy L. Dep      ecorder




       That Section 7.50 of the Bluffdale City Code be amended (as attached) by adding as
Exhibit A regarding the procedure to establish the definition of "significant property" and
establishing a process by which city property may be declared surplus and sold.
                                            EXHIBIT A


Significant Property Disposition Amendments



7.50 DISPOSITION OF SIGNIFICANT REAL PROPERTY
7.50.010 Defineditions
7.50.020 Notice Required
7.50.030 Procedure


7.50.010 Defineditions


DISPOSITION; Any sale, exchange,lease, encumbrance or other conveyance of property.

PROPERTY:Real property.

SIGNIFICANT PARCEL OF REAL PROPERTY: Any parcel of Citv-owned property that has
a reasonable value in excess of ten thousand dollars(SlO.OOOT


A "significant parcol of real property" is hereby defined to include any pared not odd or
irregularly shaped or over one tenth(Va) of an acre.


7.50.020 Reasonable Notice Required
Reasonable notice of the disposition of a significant parcel of real property shall include:-at
least fourteen (14) days' posted notice and published notice in a newspaper of general
circulation at least fourteen (14) days before a public hearing before the city council in
which public comment is sought.
   A. Publishing or posting notice of a public hearing on the proposed disposition of
a significant parcel of real property in the following (ocations:
    1. On the City's website:

    2. On the Utah public notice website:

    3. Posting notice in at least 3 public places within the citv: and

   B. Mailing such notice to the adjacent property owners.


7.50.030 Procedure

 A. 1. Before the disposition of any significant parcel of property, the City Council must
declare the property as surplus.
   2. Before the Council mav declare as surplus and authorize the disposition of
a significant parcel of real property,the Citv shall provide reasonable notice at least fourteen
(14) days before a public hearing where the public mav have an opportunity to provide input
on the proposed surplus and disposition.

 B. Subject to the requirements herein, every disposition of surplus property shall be made
by the City Manager,or designee.
 C. 1. a. Property subject to disposition bv the Citv under this section must be:
      fl^ Reliably appraised, and

      (2) the disposition must be for at[east fair market value.

    b. Notwithstanding subsection Claf2) of this section,the Council may make a finding bv
resolution that the disposition of specific parcels of real property need not be for fair market
value if the City will receive specifically identified intangible benefits that justify the
disposition ofthe property for less than fair market value.

    c. Notwithstanding subsection Cla(l) of this section, an appraisal is not required where:
      fl) The reasonable estimated value ofthe surplus property is negligible in relation to
the costs of an appraisal: or

      (2) Where the surplus property is of such size, shape or is otherwise so unique as to be
unmarketable.

In such circumstances,the Citv Manager mav dispose ofthe surplus property in anv manner
as to ensure that the transaction is in the best interest ofthe Citv. the disposition is made
with consideration for the reasonable estimated value ofthe property, and the disposition
otherwise maximizes the return or benefit to the Citv.

   2. To the extent allowed by law and at the discretion of the Citv Manager,the disposition
of property declared as surplus may be carried out through public offering and competitive
bid, public sale, private sale, listing with a real estate broker, exchange, option to purchase,
lease, lease with option to purchase, or bv anv other lawful and reasonable means.

   3. The method of disposition shall reflect market conditions and characteristics of
the property. The City Manager shall ensure that the transaction is in the best interest ofthe
Citv. maximizes the return or benefit to the Citv. and that the value ofthe property is
congruent with the proposed price and other terms ofthe sale or exchange. No provision of
this chapter shall be construed to require or to invalidate anv conveyance or encumbrance by
the Citv nor to vest rights or action of any kind against the Citv. its officers, agents or
employees.
