                                  CITY OF BLUFFDALE,UTAH

                                     ORDINANCE NO.2023-03



AN ORDINANCE CREATING A NEW SPECIAL DEVELOPMENT ZONE(SD-X THE
BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING), WHICH CREATES A NEW ZONING MAP
DESIGNATION,A NEW ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT CHAPTER,AND ADOPTS AN
DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR A SPECIFIC GEOGRAPHICAL AREA.


        WHEREAS,Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the Bluffdale City Council(the "City Council")
authority to enact or amend ordinances that it considers necessary or appropriate for the use and
development ofland in the City of Bluffdale (the "City"); and

        WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale Land Use Ordinance has adopted a special purpose and
overlay zones chapter which allows property owners to propose specific zoning regulations and project
plans for their properties;

         WHEREAS the special development district(SD)zone designation is provided in order to allow
the most efficient and creative development oflands that have unique or unusual characteristics and is
intended to be used for development when it can be shown that no other zone classification would be
adequate for reasonable development that otherwise conforms to or furthers the goals and objectives of
the city's general plan and economic development strategic plan;

        WHEREAS,the Bluffdale Planning Commission has held a public hearing and gave its
recommendation to the City Council; and

        WHEREAS,the City Council has held a public hearing and reviewed the subject text amendments
and finds that the subject text amendments will enhance the public health, safety, and welfare.


NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE,UTAH:

       Section 1. Zoning Map Amendment.The City Coundl hereby amends the official zoning map
from the SG-1 Sand and Gravel Zone designation to a new designation ofSD-X The Bluff at Point
Crossing Zone on the entire property as indicated in Exhibit'A':

                                                See Exhibit *A'

        Section 2. Text Amendments.The City Council hereby amends BCC 11.110.080.020 as
indicated in Exhibit 'B':


                                                See Exhibit'B'
       Section 3. Text Amendments. The City Council hereby adopts a new chapter in the BCC
11.110.140 entitled SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing Zone,which includes the development
requirements for the project, as indicated in Exhibit'C;

                                                  See Exhibit'C



       SECTION T Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid     or
unenforceable,such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance and
all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.


       PASSED AND ^OPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE
UTAH,ON THIS U? DAY OF ^ mA\k{iiriX                                      ,2023 BY THE FOLLOWING
VOTE


                                                       YES       NO    ABSTAIN       ABSENT

                       Councilmember Aston
                       Councilmember Crockett
                       Councilmember Gaston
                       Councilmember Hales
                       Councilmember Kallas


Mayo                                                   Attest:
                  .Hall                                          Cfcv Recorder




                                              CORPOWTE
                                                  SEAL
                                               EXHIBIT A


                                       Property Legal Description




                                     BOUNDARY DESCRIPTION


A portion of the Southwest Quarter of Section 14 and the Southeast Quarter of Section 15, Township 4
South,Range 1 West,Salt Lake Base & Meridian,located in Bluffdale, Utah, more particularly described as
follows:
Beginning at a point located S0°07'58"E along the Section line 4023.39 feet and West 4296.49 feet from
the Northeast Corner of Section 14,T4S,RIW,S.L.B.& M.(Basis of bearing being S89°46'54"W between
the Northeast Corner and the North Quarter Corner of Section 14); thence S06®43*42"E 11.12 feet to the
westerly line ofPorter Rockwell Blvd.; thence along said westerly line the following three (3) courses: along
the arc of a non-tangent curve to the left 1100.36 feet with a radius of 1275.50 feet through a central angle
of 49°25'43", chord: S58°33'27"W 1066.56 feet; thence S33°50'36"W 421.58 feet; thence along the arc of
a curve to the right 380.99 feet with a radius of 1124.50 feet through a central angle of 19°24'44", chord:
S43°32'58"W 379.17 feet; thence N36°44'39"W 340.22 feet; thence N06®12'09"E 495.15 feet; thence
N83°47'51"W 55.00 feet to the east line ofthe Eastjordan Canal as established by Deed Entry No.7137991
in the official records of Salt Lake County; thence along said east line the following three (3) courses:
N06°12'09"E 107.88 feet; thence N07®44'49"W 174.70 feet; thence N18®49'57"E 120.46 feet; thence
N89°42'01"E 640.29 feet; thence N00°02'32"W 89.99 feet; thence S85°59'01"E 944.50 feet to the point of
beginning.

Contains: ±19.47 acres
                                                  EXHIBIT B


                               BCC 11.110.080.020 TEXT AMENDMENT




11.110.080.020 Qualification


    A. For property to qualify for SD zone classification the following conditions shall be met:

            1. The property to be classified shall be at least twenty(20)acres for residential and mixed-use projects.
               The property shall be at least five (5) acres for commercial,industrial, or projects manufactiaring, or
               mixed-use projects which are directly adjacent to the 1-15 corridor and wliich contains a hotel, or
               projects which front on -tw© one arterial roads.
                   EXHIBIT C


11.110.140 SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING ZONE
SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING ZONE




11.110.140.010 INTENT AND PURPOSE

The intent of this special development zone is to provide a land use pattern for a
complementary and compatible pedestrian friendly mix of commercial and residential uses.
It is the intent of this zone to allow for flexibility and creativity in the arrangement of uses and
unique design standards. The purpose is to develop The Bluff at Point Crossing("SD-X BPC
Zone"), a mixed-use community consisting of a minimum of 62,000 square feet of commercial
uses and up to 50 residential townhome units. The SD-X BPC Zone is located adjacent to
Porter Rockwell Boulevard and Herltagecrest Way which provides vehicular and pedestrian
access for the development. Design standards and site specifications in this project are
created with this chapter and shall supersede any conflicting design standards and site
specifications in any and all applicable City ordinances. Design standards not specifically
included in the SD-X BPC Zone,shall be governed by applicable provisions of the Bluffdale
City Code (BCC).


11.110.140.020 LAND USE AUTHORITY FOR SITE PLAN AND SUBDIVISION APPROVAL

A site plan approval is required for all commercial and residential buildings within the SD-X
BPC Zone. All applications are subject to the development standards and design
requirements of this chapter and the Bluffdale City Codes in title 11.150 and other applicable
BCC sections and are required to be approved by the Bluff at Point Crossing Architectural
Review Committee(BPCARC) prior to review and approval by the Land Use Authority. City of
Bluffdale staff shall be the Land Use Authority to review and approve all site plans.
The adoption of the SD-X BPC does not constitute a subdivision of the proposed property. All
future subdivisions of land within the SD-X BPC Zone are subject to all requirements of Title
12 and other applicable sections of the Bluffdale City Code and all adopted specifications and
all applications shall be reviewed and approved by the designated Land Use Authority as
stated.




11.110.140.030 CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN

SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing consists of approximately 20 acres. The Conceptual Site Plan
includes approximately 9.50 acres of commercial uses, approximately 2.90 acres of
residential uses, and includes approximately 7.07 acres of landscaping, open space and other
amenities as shown in Figure 1 and Figure 2. Total acreage may vary as final site plans are
developed and approved.The Bluff at Point Crossing conceptual site plan provides an
anticipated layout of commercial and residential uses and does not constitute final site plan


              PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023 /SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 1 of 16
approval. Site plan approval Is required for ail phases of development consistent with the
Bluffdale City Code and as outlined in this title by the authorized Land Use Authority.

                                            tz ^ r-i—                       I..'   I ''

                                                                 '.xosr



                                                   nil 11 III
                                                                MUliJUtll




                                                                                    F GUREl




             PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 2 of 16
                            nraiT




                                                                       FIGURE 2



11.110.140.040 COMMERICAL AND RESIDENTIAL PHASING PLAN

   A. The owners of the property within the SD-X BPC Zone shall submit application for site
      plan approval and subdivision approval, if applicable,for the areas designated for
      commercial and residential uses within two (2) years of zoning approval by the Land
      Use Authority. Commercial pads and residential units shall be simultaneously
      constructed following the completion of the overall site reclamation process and
      other City approval processes.
11.110.140.Q5Q COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS

The commercial areas of the SD-X BPC Zone consist of approximately 9.50 acres. It is
anticipated a minimum of 62,000 square feet of commercial and retail uses will be provided
depending upon market demand and economic opportunities. Proposed commercial uses
are shown in Table 11.110.140.060. The overall project shall provide pedestrian connections
and access to community and regional trail networks through integrated site design. The site
shall also provide vehicular access and circulation for mobility within the site and visibility
along Porter Rockwell Boulevard and Heritagecrest Way.
   A. Public Open Space and Landscaping Requirements: Open space shall be included as
      a component of all site plans, and shall include the following minimum standards:
       1. Consist of a minimum offifteen percent(15%)of the overall acreage for the entire
          project. Site specific landscaping plans will be approved with the individual site

             PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/ SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 3 of 16
       plan applications and shall maintain landscaping percentages in each phase of
       development
   2. Additional features including art, clocks, water features, or other amenities are
       highly encouraged within the SD-X BPC commercial area. These areas may include
       a central prominent gathering space with a focal feature such as a statue, water
       feature,canopy,gazebo,clock tower,or other feature as approved with the site
       plan. The central features shall be proportionate to the size and scale of the
       gathering space and may include other features such as raised planters, benches,
       trees, pedestrian scale lighting, and brick pavers or stamped concrete.
   3. Any hardscaped area featuringany of the amenities listed above used for a public
      open space shall be included in the overall tabulation for the minimum open space
      or landscaping requirement and may receive credit as a replacement for irrigated
      landscape areas.
   4. A trail network shall be provided within the project to connect the commercial and
      residential areas and create connections to other public trails within the area,
      pursuant to or as shown on concept plan Figure 2. Trail locations and
      specifications are subject to the City's standards and shall be reviewed and
      approved with specific site plan applications.
B. All landscaped areas shall be installed in accordance with the City's standards for
   water efficiency, parking lot landscaping,trees,shrubs, ground cover requirements,
   and irrigation design.
C. Street trees shall be planted and maintained in compliance with City standards in all
   park strips and adjacent to the trail areas. Where a park strip does not exist or allow
   for street trees due to utility or other engineering conflicts,street trees shall be placed
   as close to the sidewalk as possible. Trees shall be installed pursuant to the approved
   site plan prior the issuance of a certificate of occupancy in each identified phase and
   shall be maintained by the owner. The owner shall be responsible for maintaining the
   park strips and removing snow from the sidewalk and trail areas within and adjacent
   to the project.
D. Commercial Development Standards:
   The SD-XBPC Zone provides specific development standards for the overall project.
   The purpose is to provide a sense of place and unifying theme for the project by
   elevating the quality of materials, colors, and additional amenities not typically
   required for commercial development.
   1. General Standards:

       a. Public utility easements shall meet Biuffdale City Standards.
       b. No trash, used materials, unsightly or outside storage of any kind, ornon-
       licensed or abandoned vehicles shall be stored in this SD-X zone.

          PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 4of 16
   c. Dumpster enclosures shall be architecturally designed and screened per
   adopted standards in BCC. Locations and materials shall be approved during site
   plan review.
2. Commercial Location Standards:

   a. Setback Requirements: Commercial buildings and necessary appurtenances
      for utility service may be located as depicted on the concept plan with no
      specific setback requirements. Drive-through lanes shall be screened and
      buffered from adjacent sidewalks and trails by at least five feet(5') of perimeter
      landscaping which includes vertical elements. Building locations shall be
      approved during the commercial site plan review process and shall comply
      with all adopted building and fire codes,accommodate utility easements, right
      of way requirements, transportation, and access ways,and all other applicable
      provisions of the BluffdaleCity Code and adopted standards.
   b. Commercial Maximum Height: A primary building or structure may not exceed
      fifty feet(50') in height, nor be lower than ten feet(10') in height. All buildings
      and structures must adhere to adopted Building and Fire Codes.
   c. Screening of utilities and equipment: Shall adhere to all BCC adopted
      requirements.
   d. Distance Between Commercial Buildings: The distance between any building
      or structure and any other building or structure shall satisfy the Building and
      Fire Codes in place at the time of site plan approval.
3. Commercial Parking. Loading, and Access:
   a. Parking: Total required off street parkingspacesshall bea minimum of five(5)
      stalls per one thousand (1,000) useable square feet for office and retail uses.
      Sufficiency of parking stall be verified during site plan review, based on a
      professional analysis and the specific proposed uses. The spaces shall be hard
      surfaced with asphalt or concrete and be accessed from a public road by a hard
      surfaced,composed of asphalt or concrete, drive approach which meets
      adopted standards. A conceptual parking plan is presented in Figure 1.
   b. Loading and Unloading Area: Loading and unloading and service entrances
      shall not occur on or adjacent to a public street. Loading docks are not allowed
      and service areas shall be screened from traffic with berming, decorative
      masonry walls,and/or landscaping, pursuant to adopted design requirements
      in the BCC.

   c. Buildings and uses designated with drive-through lanes shall verify adequate
      stacking and queuing in their traffic analysis during site plan review.



     PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/SD-XTHE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 5 of 16
   d. Cross-access easement agreements shall be recorded with any proposed
      subdivision to accommodate free movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic
       and to allow shared parking throughout the project.
   e. All internal roads throughout the development are planned to be private roads
      and will be owned and maintained by the owners or users as part of the SD-
       XBPC Zone.

4. Design Standards: The Bluff at Point Crossing project shall include enhanced
   architectural elements and thematic features to all sides and facades of a building.
   The following architectural design standards are provided to create a specific
   project design, conceptual architectural elevations and renderings are depicted in
   Figures and Figure 4 which are to be used as an expectation for site plan review.
   The following architectural design guidelines are the minimum standards for the
   design and construction of all non-residential buildings within The Bluff at Point




      PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/ SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 6 of 16
                                                                   FIGURE 3




                                                                 ae u r b i a
                                                                        architects and engineers




              FIGURE 4



                                                      TABIS




      aeu r barchitects and engineers




Crossing. Building design shall adhere to the design requirements in 11.150 of the BCC
unless otherwise specifically noted.
         a. Building Materials:
                 i.     Lap siding and headboard may be utilized as the primary visible
                        exterior material. Use of this material shall not exceed 50%. It shall


         PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/ SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 7 of 16
           be neutral and light in color and shall be fiber/cement composite
           siding. No vinyl siding shall be permitted.
           Wood can be used mainly around entrances or on the building as an
           accent material. The use of this material may not exceed 25%.
           Stone, brick and other masonry may be used as a primary material
           which may not exceed 60%.
      V.   Primary color tones shall be complimentary In hue and shade to the
           facade material and shall generally be subtle,subdued,low
           reflectance, neutral,or earth tones. White and black are also
           acceptable.
      V.   Architectural metal panels, patterned concrete and/or EIFS/stucco
           systems may be used on all exterior walls. Maximum amount of
           EIFs/stucco is 25% on any one facade.
 b. Windows: Primary building elevations along Porter Rockwell Boulevard
    and HeritagecrestWay shall have a minimum of forty percent(40%)
    transparency or window glazing within the first nine(9)feet of the
    structure; above that,the remaining facade areas shall have a minimum of
    fifteen percent(15%)window requirement, which can include the use of
    clerestory windows where high ceilings exist. Mirrored glass shall not be
    allowed on the ground floor. Spandrel glass or faux windows may be
    utilized to meet this requirement where not feasible due to building
    structural design limitations. Glass garage doors,including opaque glass,
    may be used to calculate and qualify for this requirement.
c. Architecture:

      i.   Architectural orientation. Four-sided architectural design is
           required. The design of a building shall be considered on all sides of
           the building, with a "frontage" design on Porter Rockwell Boulevard
           and Heritagecrest Way,as well as an additional frontage with entry
           access near the parking areas. The front facade of all commercial
           buildings shall face the street, and an additional and look alike front
           facade will face the parking or other area of main pedestrian access.
     ii.   Roof Design. Commercial buildings may utilize some flat roof
           designs. A design including pitched rooffeatures for accent roofs are
           encouraged and should be used for 25% of a massing's roof line.
    iii.   Entry Features. Porches, roof overhangs,awnings, hooded front
           doors, pop-outs, and/or other architectural facade elements shall
           define the front entrance to all commercial buildings.


PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 8 of 16
                     iv.     Vertical Separation. Buildings should have a visually distinct base that
                             creates a welcoming environment for pedestrians. The lowest level of
                             the building should have more mass and bulk in order to be clearly
                             delineated and scaled. The ground floor ceiling height must be greater
                             than the upper floors.
11.110.140.060 ALLOWED USES

Only those land uses specifically listed in the Table below are allowed as permitted or
accessory uses In the commercial areas of the SD-X BPC Zone.
         Table of Permitted and Accessory Uses for SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing Zone
                                                                   USES

 BANK OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: An organization Involved in deposit banking,finance,Investment, mortgages,trusts,and
 the like, but excluding uses specifically classified in another definition herein. Typical uses include commercial banks,credit
 unions,finance or mortgage companies,and savings institutions.

 CAR WASH: An establishment primarily engaged in cleaning or detailing motor vehicles, including cars, passenger trucks,
 recreational vehicles, whether self-service, automatic or by hand.This definition applies only to car washes that are the primary
 use of land. A car wash associated with a gas station is not included in this definition.

 CONVENIENCE STORE/GAS STATION: An establishment, not exceeding five thousand (5,000)square feet of gross floor area,
serving a limited market area and engaged In the retail sale or rental,from the premises, offood,beverages and other
frequently or recurrently needed Items for household use,which may include the sale of gasoline and petroleum products. Such
 establishment may also include automatic and self-serve car washes which are accessory to the primary use.

 HOTEL:An establishment with or without fixed cooking facilities In Individual rooms offering transient lodging
 accommodations to the public,and which may provide additional services such as restaurants and meeting rooms.

 LAUNDRY SERVICES: An establishment providing household laundry and dry-cleaning services with customer dropoff and pick
 up where laundering or cleaning is done on the site. This use also Includes an establishment providing home type washing,
 drying,and/or ironing machines for hire or rent to be used by customers on the premises,such as a laundromat.

 MEDICAL SERVICE/URGENT CARE CLINIC; An establishment providing therapeutic, preventive, urgent care,or corrective
 personal treatment services on an outpatient basis by physicians, dentists, and other practitioners of the medical or healing
 arts, as well as the provision of medical testing and analysis services.

 OFFICE, GENERAL:A building, room or department where executive, management,administrative or professional services are
 provided,except medical services, and excluding the sale of merchandise,except as incidental to a principal use. Typical uses
 include real estate brokers,insurance agencies,credit reporting agencies, property management firms.Investment firms,
 employment agencies,travel agencies, advertising agencies, secretarial services, data processing,call centers; Post Offices and
 express mail offices as an accessory or complementary use to a professional and business office development, but excluding
 major mail processing and distribution; offices for utility bill collection; professional or consulting services In the fields of law,
 architecture,design,engineering, accounting and similar professions;interior decorating consulting services; and business
 offices of private companies, utility companies, public agencies, trade associations, unions and nonprofit organizations.

 PERSONAL INSTRUCTION SERVICE;An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of informational.Instructional,
 personal improvement and similar services of a nonprofessional nature. Typical uses include art and music schools,driving and
 computer instruction, gymnastic and dance studios, handicraft or hobby instruction, health and fitness studios, massage
 therapist instruction, martial arts training,and swimming clubs.

 PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT:An establishment providing nonmedtcal services to individuals as a primary use.
 Examples of these uses include barbershops, beauty salons,day/health spa, hair salons, nail salons,shoe repair shops,tanning
salons,tailors and similar businesses not including tattoo establishments.




                  PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023 / SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 9 of 16
 PRESCHOOL/DAYCARE CENTER:An establishment, other than an occupied dwelling,operated by a person or organization
 qualified by the State, which provides daycare, protection or supervision and/or preschool Instruction.

 RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT(INDOOR):A commercial recreational land use conducted entirely within a building,
 including arcade, arena,athletic and health clubs, bowling alley, community center,gymnasium, pool or billiard halt,skating
 rink,swimming pool,tennis court or similar indoor facility. Related indoor uses may include a retail area for the sale or rental of
 equipment and a snack bar.

REPAIR SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in providing repair services to individuals and households rather than
firms, but excluding automotive,vehicular and equipment services uses. Typical uses Include appliance repair shops,computer
 and other electronic equipment repair,furniture repair and upholstery shops, watch orjewelry repair shops, and musical
 instrument repair shops.

 RESTAURANT:A facility where food and drink is prepared and served to the public for on-site consumption {dine in), takeout,or
 delivery service. A restaurant may include a drive-through.

 RETAIL,GENERAL:An establishment that rents or sells goods to the public but excluding uses specifically classified in another
 definition herein. Typical uses include apparel stores,antique shops,art and hobby supply stores, bicycle shops, bookstores,
 clothing rental stores, department stores,discount stores, drugstores,electronic appliance stores, florists,food stores,furniture
 and appliance stores, gift and novelty shops,glass and mirror shops, hardware stores, home improvement centers.Jewelry
 stores, medical supply stores, music stores,optical retail sales, paint stores, pet stores, photocopying and blueprinting shops,
 photography supply stores, record,tape and video stores,sporting goods stores,toy stores and variety stores.

 VETERINARY SERVICE; An establishment providing medical care and treatment for animals, which may include accessory
 grooming or boarding services.




11.110.140.070 RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS

The conceptual residential areas of the Bluff at Point Crossing consist of approximately 2.90
acres. It is anticipated that up to 50 townhome units can be accommodated within the
project depending upon market demand,right of way requirements, and sufficient parking
being provided. Townhomes shall have pedestrian connections to commercial areas and trail
networks and to the Independence project to the north through integrated site design. Access
will be provided from Porter Rockwell Boulevard and HeritagecrestWay.
     A. Open Space: Open space shall
     be included, and shall include
     the following:
         1. Consist of a minimum of
              fifteen percent(15%)of
              the overall acreage for the
              entire residential area of
              the project. Site specific
              landscaping plans will be
              approved with the
              individual site plan
              applications.
         2. Amenities: Open space shall be provided to benefit the residential community.The
            residential area may include a privately owned and maintained park. A trail
                PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/ SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 10 of 16
     network shall provide public access to trails and connections to other trail systems
     and create pedestrian connectivity to the commercial areas within the project
     along with surrounding neighborhoods as shown in the(open space exhibit) Figure
     2. Trails within the residential area shall be constructed with the residential units.
     Final locations, connections and standards shall be determined at site plan
     approval.

B. Landscaping:
  1. The residential areas shall be landscaped in accordance with the City's standards
     for water efficiency, percentage of parking lot landscaping,tree,shrub,and
     ground cover requirements,and irrigation design.
  2. Street trees shall be planted and maintained in compliance with City standards in
     all park strips and adjacent to trail areas. Where a park strip does not exist or
     allow for street trees due to utility or other engineering conflicts,street trees shall
     be placed as close to the sidewalk as possible. These trees shall be installed
     pursuant to the approved site plan prior the issuance of a certificate of occupancy
     and shall be maintained by the owner. The owners shall be responsible for
     maintaining the park strips and removing snow from the sidewalk and trail areas
     within and adjacent to the project.
  3. The private park and trails will be informal play areas that include at a minimum
     turf, trees, and an automatic irrigation system, which complies with the City's
     water efficiency standards.
C. Residential Development Standards:
  1. Appearance: The SD-X BPC Zone requires specific development standards and
     regulations that apply to the project. The purpose is to develop standards that will
     enhance the overall appearance of the neighborhood.
  2. Conflicts: Standards and adopted codes not specifically modified by this SD-X BPC
     Zone shall be governed by applicable provisions of the Bluffdale City Code and
     adopted standards.
  3. The residential units are allowed to be three stories and up to 50 feet in height.
  4. Residential building location is allowed as depicted on the conceptual site plan,
     with no specific setback requirement, and shall be approved during the site plan
     review process. Location shall comply with all adopted building and fire codes
     and accommodate required utility easements, right of way requirements,and
     emergency access, and all other applicable provisions of the Bluffdale City Code
     and adopted standards.
  5. The architectural design standards are provided to create a specific project design,
     conceptual architectural elevations and renderings are depicted in Figure 5 and
     Figure 6 which are to be used as an expectation for site plan review.
       PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/ SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 11 of 16
                              FIGURES




                                      I

                                                ae u r b i
                                                         architects and




     F CURE 6




PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/ SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 12 of 16
D. Residential Parking and Vehicular Access:
   1. Residential parking is provided as follows:two(2) parking spaces per dwelling unit
      enclosed in garage and 20-foot minimum driveway is required.
   2. There shall be one(l) guestparkingstallforevery four(4) units.
   3. Cross access easement agreements shall be recorded with any proposed
      subdivision plat between the residential lots and the commercial lots to
      accommodate free movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic and to allow
      shared parking between throughout the project.
E. Building Materials:
                I.    Lap siding and beadboard may be utilized as the primary visible
                      exterior material. Use ofthis material shall not exceed 50%. It shall
                      be neutral and light in color and align with the style and renderings
                      depicted in Figures 5-6. All lap siding and beadboard shall be
                      fiber/cement composite siding. No vinyl siding shall be permitted.
               ii.    Wood may be used as an accent material. Wood can be used mainly
                      around entrances and featured architectural elements and may not
                      exceed 25%.

               iii.   Primary color tones shall be complimentary In hue and shade to the
                      facade material and shall generally be subtle,subdued,low
                      reflectance, neutral, or earth tones. White and black are also
                      acceptable.
               iv.    Stone, masonry, brick, fiber cement siding, architectural metal
                      panels, patterned concrete are allowed and may not exceed 25% on
                      any one facade.
                      Where masonry is used on the front exterior at corners, it shall be
                      wrapped around to the side exterior a minimum of twenty-four
                      inches(24").

F. Architecture:

          a. Architectural orientation. Four-sided architectural design is required. The
             design of a building shall be considered on all sides of the building, with a
             "frontage" design on the internal and private street.
          b. Roof Design. A design including pitched and flat roof features for accent
             roofs are encouraged and should be used for at least 25% of a massing's
              roof line.




        PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/ SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 13 of 16
                 c. Entry Features. Porches, roof overhangs,awnings, hooded front doors,
                    pop-outs, and/or other architectural facade elements shall define the front
                     entrance to all residential units.

                 d. Garage Doors. All garage doors shall have architectural elements, windows
                    and a varied color palette as shown in rendering.
                     Table of Uses allowed in the residential area of the SD-X BPC Zone.

 DWELLING, MULTI'FAMILY: A dwelling containing three(3)or more dwelling units.

 HOME OCCUPATION:Any occupation conducted within a dwelling and carried on by persons residing in the dwelling.   A




11.110.140.080 TRANSPORTATION

The Bluff at Point Crossing project provides access to Porter Rockwell Boulevard and
HeritagecrestWayas primary access to the property. A signalized intersection and proposed
to be located at the intersection of Heritagecrest Way and Porter Rockwell Boulevard as
warranted by the Utah Department of Transportation. The transportation network plan is
depicted in Figure?.
        1. Detailed traffic studies shall be required during site plan review to verify specific
           design and right of way requirements for access and traffic flow to commercial and
            residential areas. Proposed minimum cross-sections of streets are shown as
            conceptual In Figure 8. Final widths and design of streets shall be determined by
            the City engineer based on traffic analysis during the site plan process.
        2. All roads within the project zone,apart from Heritagecrest Way,will be private
           streets, owned and maintained by the owners or user's associations.

                                                                                                  02
                                                                                             (




                        -Ifc


                    Mite;                                        0F CURE.7



              PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/ SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 14 of 16
                                                                                         wm




                                                    timmamx.




                          FIGURES
                                                                                        'W
                                                     fMunosu.




11.110.140.090 SIGNAGE

      1. Signs: All monument,tower,and Informational wayfinding signs shall adhere to a
         consistent and unified signage scheme which is consistent with the architectural
         theme. Unless otherwise noted, all signs shall comply with signage requirements
         in BCC 11.220.

         Signage which differs from or exceeds the City's standard's requirements is
         allowed as follows:

      2. Tower Sign: One tower sign shall be allowed at the entrance to The Bluff at Point
         Crossing from Porter Rockwell Boulevard which meets the dimensional, design,
         and locational standards found in BCC 11.22.070.

      3. Welcome Sign. Developer shall install and entry/welcome sign which includes the
         official "The Bluff at Point Crossing" logo as part of the project Said sign shall be
         allowed to be up to six feet high and shall have an architectural concrete base. The
         welcome sign shall be included in the site plan review and constructed with the
         building located closest to the intersection of Heritagecrest Way and Porter
         Rockwell Boulevard.

     4. Informational Wayfinding Signs. Informational wayfinding signs shall be allowed in
        the project and shall follow the size and location guidelines outlined in City code
        section 11.220.070 for informational signs.

           PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 15 of 16
5. Suspended, Blade Type Projecting Signs. Suspended or blade type projecting
   signs may be provided along pedestrian walkways and shall maintain a minimum
   clearance of seven feet(7') above the pavement and shall be a maximum of four(4)
   square feet.
6. Electronic message centers are not allowed.




     PC RECOMMENDATION 01.04.2023/SD-X THE BLUFF AT POINT CROSSING - Page 16 of 16
