ORDINANCE NO. 2023-22

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING THE
BLUFFDALE CITY EMPLOYEE POLICIES AND PROCEDURES MANUAL WITH RESPECT TO PAID TIME
OFF FOR CITY EMPLOYEES AND RELATED PROVISIONS

WHEREAS, Bluffdale City Code § 1.70.020(A)(7) tasks the City Manager to “implement City
personnel ordinances and rules and regulations adopted by the City Council”; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has approved the creation and implementation of the Bluffdale
City Employee Policies and Procedures Manual (the “Manual”) and has approved amendments to
the Manual from time to time; and

WHEREAS, the City Manager and staff have recommended certain changes to the Manual
relating to paid time off for City employees and related provisions; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the proposed amendments will aid the City Manager
and staff in ensuring “that the City government and respective departments function in the most
efficient and effective manner,” Bluffdale City Code § 1.70.020(A)(4).

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:
SECTION 1. Amendment. The Manual is hereby amended as shown on Exhibit A.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance
and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS 8th DAY OF
November, 2023, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

YES NO ABSTAIN ABSENT
Councilmember Aston i*
Councilmember Crockett Y,
Councilmember Gaston VY,

Councilmember Hales Vy _—

Councilmember Kallas

Mayor:

Page 1 of 3
Exhibit A Amendments to the Bluffdale City Employee Policies and Procedures Manual

Page 3 of 3
1.40.050 Overtime Exempt employees are not entitled to overtime compensation. Non- {style Definition: List Paragraph

exempt employees are entitled to overtime compensation at a rate of one and one-half times
their regular rates of pay in accordance with the provisions and regulations of the Fair Labor
Standards Act. No employee may perform work over his or her designated hours, except in a
city or departmental emergency, without prior approval of his or her Department Head. The
City Manager shall be contacted as soon as possible for notification and authorization. Unless
otherwise provided by City policy and in accordance with federal regulations for employees
performing bona fide public safety services, all hours of work officially ordered and/or
approved by City employees in excess of forty (40) hours per week are considered overtime in
accordance with the provisions and regulations of the Fair Labor Standards Act. Paid leave,
medical leave, veeatienpaid time off (PTO), etc. taken during a work period does not count
toward hours worked for overtime purposes.

1.40.080 Holiday Pay Full-time employees shall receive eight (8) hours of paid holiday leave
for each of those days defined herein as legal holidays of the City. Part-time employees
defined as part-time eligible shall receive four (4) hours of paid holiday leave for each of those
days defined herein as legal holidays of the City. Limited employees are not eligible for
holiday pay but may be given leave without pay. Non-exempt Employees, excluding those of
the Police and Fire Departments, required by a supervisor to work on a legal holiday of the
City may choose to receive compensatory time or be paid overtime. In either case, the
overtime pay or the compensatory time shall accrue at one and one half (1 2) times the
employee’s normal pay rate in addition to the holiday pay they also receive. Holidays
occurring during an employee’s vacatienpaid-time-off PTO ersickteaveare not counted as
vacationPTO-ersick- days (excluding those employees who are scheduled to work on the
holiday) and will be given an alternate day off for the holiday.

1.40.090 Paid Leave Full-time employees are entitled to vacatienPTO leave, all-purpose leave,
oe eee amar other paid leaves as may be established by the City. Part-time
employees -time eligible may receive vacationPTO leave, all-purpose leave,
li ae a other paid leave as particularly set forth herein. No paid leave shall
accrue or be granted to limited employees unless otherwise approved by the City Manager or

his/her designee.

1.40.100 Unpaid Leave Employees may be granted unpaid leave under certain circumstances
in accordance with the procedures set forth herein. Unless otherwise provided by law, such as
military or family and medical leave, unpaid leave is a privilege and not a right. Employees
shall not be entitled to the accrual of any vacationPTO ersickteave credits during the period
of unpaid leave, but shall be entitled to life insurance, group health insurance, and seniority
entitlement as required by law. Unless otherwise required by law, the employee may be
required to pay for continuation of insurance benefits during unpaid leave.
1.40.130 Paid Time off Vacation-requested time off and absences due to illness or
health care needs.

2LEligibility. Full-time employees are eligible to accrue acerte-PTOvacation
teave in accordance with his or her tenure of employment at the rates set
forth herein and are eligible to use accrued PTOvacationteave. Part-time
employees defined as part-time eligible are eligible to accrue and use
accrued PTOvacatienteave as provided herein.

2. Employee Accrual Rates. Full-time employees employed for the first time shall
receive 5 days of PTO on their start date (“Preloaded PTO”). They then shall accrue
fifteentwelve (152) days of paid PTOvaeatienteave for the first yearthreugh fifth
years of continuous employment with the City; twenty fifteen(2045) days of paid
PTOvaecatiorteave for the secondsixth through the fourthtenth years of continuous
employment with the City; and twenty-fiveseventeen (2517) days of paidvacation
teavePTO for the fiftheteverth through the ninethfifteerth years of continuous
employment with the City; and thirtyrineteen (3049) days for the tenthsixteenth and
each succeeding year of continuous service with the City. The City Manager and

irector level e ive employees as defined ity Manager or his/her desi
will accrue 35 days of PTO per year.

3._ Exceptions. The City manager or designee may negotiate and modify initial

ti is n Cc if she dee cessary to
attract or retain key employees a itions..

3-4.Part-time Employees. Part-time employees defined as part-time eligible may
accrue up to half the amount of paid-vaecatienteavePTO as a full-time employee ona
pro rata basis in proportion to the actual hours worked per pay period. Unless

ined ti igi art-time employees d rue PT!

5. Accumulation. VacationteavePTO is credited to each employee each pay period. In
the first year of hire in an eligible position, vacation shall accrue from the date of hire
for that position. Employees can accumulate and carry forward to the next calendar
year a maximum of fivetwe hundred and twentferty (520248) hours. Any unused
PTOvaeatien hours in excess of fivetwe hundred and twentyferty (520248) hours will
be forfeited at the end of each calendar year on December 31st. Upon good cause
and request from the employee’s Department Head, the cut-off date may be
extended by up to athirty{30}te-sixty (60) days-extension-efthe Decembercut off
date may be-considered by the City Manager or designee.

“6. centive. es who have more th: f unused PTO ar!
igible an i up to ten (10) of their unused PTO days. This

amoun ally will be paid in the first riod in December. The days used for
this incentive will be paid at 5 f his or her rate of pay on the pay date. The days
used for this incentive wi educted from each employee's accrued balance.

7._ Scheduling. Vacation teavePTO used as vacation is intended to benefit the
employee and employees are encouraged to take such leave in the year in which it is
earned. In order to accommodate the efficient management of the City, requests for
vacation teavePTO taken as vacation must be ftedinweitingrequested with the
employee’s Department Head, or his or her designee in accordance with the
Employee Leave Request procedures set forth herein. The City will try to honor
employees’ requested vacation dates but retains the right to determine final
scheduling order or to change the vacation schedules according to the needs of the
City and not cause undue burden on the City and- departmental staffing.
Department Heads are expected to establish yearly vacation schedulestewhich
provide efficient management of the City. The City retains the options, in the event
of an emergency, to pay any employee in cash in lieu of accrued vacation credit, if
any vacation request cannot be granted in the best interest of the City.

=

6—Miscellaneous. A paid holiday which occurs during vacatienteavePTO will not be
charged as a PTOveeation day.

8.

#-—Termination. Upon termination of employment with the City-etherthanfereause,
eligible employees shall be entitled to cash in lieu for unused vaeatienteavePTO at
his or her regular rate of pay at the date of termination. The five (5) days of
Preloaded PTO for new hires is not eligible for cash in lie out if terminatio

occurs within the introductory period.

aah as
seit ipa

1.40.160 Family And Medical Leave

1.

Purpose. It is the purpose of this Section to provide guidelines for employees
regarding leaves of absence in accordance with the Family and Medical Leave Act of
1993, as amended (FMLA or Act). The provisions set forth herein are intended to
comply with such Act, and if any conflict arises or if an issue or definition is not
addressed herein, the federal Act shall control. The provisions of this Section are
intended to supersede the unpaid leave provisions provided elsewhere in these
Policies and Procedures.

Eligible Employees. Employees eligible for Family and Medical Leave as provided
herein include employees who have been employed with the City for at least twelve
(12) months and who have performed at least one thousand two hundred fifty (1,250)
hours of service for the City during the previous 12-month period immediately
preceding the commencement of the leave.

Permitted Leave. Eligible employees shall be entitled to a total of twelve (12) work
weeks of unpaid leave during any 12-month period for the following:

a) the birth of a son or daughter of the employee and to care for such son or
daughter;

b) the placement of a son or daughter with the employee for adoption or foster
care and to care for such son or daughter;

c) in order to care for the employee’s spouse, son, daughter, or parent with a
serious health condition; or

d) aserious health condition that makes the employee unable to perform the
functions of his or her position.

Designation of 12-Month Period. For purposes of determining the 12-month period in
which the twelve (12) weeks of leave entitlement occurs, the City uses a rolling 12-
month period measured backward from the date an employee uses any FMLA leave.
Leave Procedure.

a) Notice. An employee must notify in writing his or her Department Head, who
shall then notify the City Manager or designee, of any needed Family and
Medical Leave by filing an Employee Leave Request at least thirty (30) days
before the leave is to begin if the need for the leave is foreseeable based upon
an expected birth, placement for adoption or foster care, or planned medical
treatment for a serious health condition of the employee or a family member. If
thirty (30) days notice is not practicable, such as because of lack of knowledge
of approximately when leave will be required to begin, a change in
circumstances, or a medical emergency, notice must be given as soon as
practicable. Failure to give proper notice of intended leave to the City may
b)

c)

d)

result in denial of the taking of the leave for up to thirty (30) days after the date
the employee provides notice in accordance with provisions of the Act.
Designation of Leave. Once the City has acquired knowledge that the leave is
being taken for a Family and Medical Leave Act-qualifying reason, the City shall
designate the leave as such, whether it is paid or unpaid, and give notice of the
designation to the employee. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, absence
preceding notice to the employee of the designation may not be counted
against the employee’s FMLA leave entitlement.

Certification. The City may require the employee to provide certification froma
health care provider regarding the necessity of the leave in accordance with
and subject to provisions of the Act.

Reporting. The City may require the employee to report periodically to the
employer on the status and intention of the employee to return to work in
accordance with and subject to provisions of the Act.

Fitness for Duty. The City may require the employee to obtain and present
certification from the health care provider stating that the employee is able to
resume work, in accordance with the Act.

Intermittent Leave. Intermittent leave or reduced schedule leave may be taken
under certain circumstances in accordance with and subject to provisions of
the Act. Any intermittent leave requested or granted shall be subject to
conditions set forth in the Act, including but not limited to, alternative position
transfer, reasonable notice, scheduling and certification.

6. Leave Protection.

a)

b)

c)

Compensation. Employees shall be required to use accrued paid PTOvacation
and all-purpose leave hours for leave provided herein and paid PTOsick leave
hours to the extent such FMLA leave qualifies as PTOsick leave under
provisions of this Chapter. Any leave not covered by previously accrued paid
PTOvaeation and; all-purpose leave hoursand-sickteave shall be permitted as
unpaid leave in accordance with the provisions set forth herein. To the extent
permitted by law, it is the intent of the City that all paid leave substituted for
unpaid Family and Medical Leave run concurrently with and be counted as
Family and Medical Leave.

Position. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, employees who take family
or medical leave shall be entitled, on return from such leave, to be restored, at
the option of the City to: (1) the position of employment held by the employee
when the leave commenced, or (2) an equivalent position with equivalent
employment benefits, pay, and other terms and conditions of employment.
The employee may be denied restoration of their positions in accordance with
and subject to provisions set forth in the Act.

Benefits. The taking of family or medical leave shall not result in the loss of any
employment benefits accrued prior to the date on which the leave
commenced, other than the required use of vacatienPTO and; all-purpose and
sick leave. An employee’s entitlement to benefits other than group health
benefits during a period of FMLA leave shall be determined in accordance with
the City’s policy for providing such benefits for the type of leave taken, i.e. paid
or unpaid, as applicable.

d) Insurance. The City shall maintain coverage for the employee under any "group
health plan" for the duration of the leave at the level and under the conditions
of coverage the employee would have been provided had the employee
continued in employment for the duration of such leave as required by the Act
and applicable provisions of COBRA. The City may recover the cost of
maintaining such coverage in accordance with provisions of the Act if the
employee fails to return from leave for a reason other than the continuation,
recurrence or onset of a serious health condition or other circumstances
beyond the control of the employee.

7. Records. The City shall make, keep and preserve records pertaining to Family and
Medical Leave in accordance with the Act. Access and maintenance of such records
shall be subject to the requirements of the Utah Government Records Access and
Management Act, as adopted and amended by the City. Documents relating to
medical certifications, recertification, fitness for duty or medical histories of
employees or employees’ family members shall be treated as confidential medical
records.

1.40.210 Catastrophic Leave
Catastrophic Leave is a voluntary program and is not a guaranteed benefit.

1. Whois Eligible. All employees, regardless of their length of service and employment
status are eligible to receive contributions of leave from other employees. Full-time,
three-quarter time, and half-time/job share employees may donate time.

2. When an Employee is Eligible. An employee is eligible to receive catastrophic leave
donations upon date-of-hire.

3. Benefit. The purpose of Catastrophic Leave is to permit employees to contribute a
portion of their accrued vacation-PTO leave or compensation time to another City
employee, when such employee has suffered a catastrophic injury or illness. This type
of leave may also apply to an employee who is caring for a terminally ill member of
his/her family. Under hardship circumstances described below, an employee may
donate, to other employees of equal or lesser grade and step, accrued vacatien-PTO or
compensation time, if the donating employee will have a combined minimum of ten
(10) days of accrued vacatien-PTOand compensation time left on the books, after the
donation. The donation must be approved by the employee's Department Head and
the City Manager or designee. The donated leave will be allocated on an as-needed
basis to the employee receiving the leave. Those donating will have time deducted
from their accrued vacationPTO or compensation accrual balances only when the
receiving employee uses the time. If the employee receiving the donation returns to
work before all “committed" donated time is used, the donation will be returned to
the employee committing the donation without being deducted.

4. Listed below are the provisions of the plan:

a)
b)

c)

d)

e)

8)
h)

i)

Participation is voluntary.

For the purposes of this leave program, “Catastrophe" shall include an illness
or event which is monumental, unusual, unexpected, immediate in nature, and
which is expected to preclude the employee's returning to work for an
extended period of time. The City reserves the right to request supporting
documentation.

The receiving employee must have been absent from work due to injury or
illness and have exhausted all earned leave credits, including but not limited to
sickteave -vacationPTO+teave, holiday leave, compensation time, executive
leave, etc., and is therefore facing financial hardship.

If the employee is approved for long term disability benefits, they are no longer
eligible to receive catastrophic leave donations.

The hours will be deducted from the donor's leave, converted to dollars and
used to compensate the recipient at the recipient's regular rate of pay.
Donations will be listed in the order in which the Finance Department Head
receives them. For each pay period, a sufficient number of donor hours will be
converted and used to compensate the recipient. Unconverted donations shall
revert to the donor.

Donations must be in half-hour increments.

Donated hours are irrevocable.

Employees may donate vacatienPTO or compensation time to employees at or
below their same pay grade on the classification schedule.

Requests must be initiated by the employee, recommended by the Department
Head, and must receive final approval from the City Manager or designee.

1.70.090 Political Activities

1, Employees shall comply with State law regarding political activities. Where provisions
of this policy conflict with state or federal law, the state or federal law shall control.
City employees may not engage in the distribution or publication of materials
approving or favoring candidates for nomination or election to public office while at
work or in any public building. Employees may not engage in furthering the interest of
candidates for public office while at work through the publication or editing of
newspaper articles or other media announcements, or engage in the solicitation of
money for the purpose of aiding or defeating the election of any candidate for any

2.
public office. Employees may not use their office or position for the political
enhancement of any individual or group.

. Employees may not become candidates for general election to the office of Bluffdale
City Mayor or City Council member, unless the employee takes a leave of absence
according to these policies and procedures or resigns from City employment effective
the day after the primary election.

. Nothing contained in this policy shall be construed as interfering with the right of
employees to become members of political parties, clubs or organizations, attend
political meetings, express opinions on all political subjects, enjoy freedom from
interference in voting, or contribute freely to political causes.

. While in City uniform, employees may not wear campaign buttons, signs, or articles of
clothing, or otherwise actively or passively campaign for candidates for political office.
. The following policies apply for political leave:

a)

b)

c)

City Elections: An employee who becomes a candidate in the general municipal
election for office of Bluffdale City Mayor or City Council member must take a
leave of absence the day following the primary election. The employee may use
accumulated comp time and vacatienPTO+eave during the leave of absence.
However, if no comp time or vacatieAPTO-+4eave is available, the leave of
absence shall be without pay. If elected, the employee must resign from City
employment.

Non-Conflicting Office: An employee who enters an election for a non-
conflicting elective office may take a leave of absence during the campaign
and, if elected, for the duration of the office. If an employee elects to take a
leave of absence for the duration of the office, the employee may use
accumulated comp time and vaeatienPTO+eave during the leave of absence.
However, if no comp time or vaeationPTO-+4eave is available, the leave of
absence shall be without pay. The employee will not continue to accrue while
on leave. The employee may return to City employment in a comparable
position upon completion or termination of all political duties.
“Nonconflicting” means that no conflict exists between the duties of the office
sought and the duties of City employment.

Conflicting Office: An employee who enters an election for a conflicting office
may take a leave of absence without pay during the campaign period. If an
employee elects to take a leave of absence during the campaign period, the
employee may use accumulated comp time and vacatienPTO+eave during the
leave of absence. However, if no comp time or vacatienPTO-+teave is available,
the leave of absence shall be without pay. The employee will not continue to
accrue while on leave. If elected the employee must resign from either
position. “Conflicting” means that a conflict exists between the duties of the
office and the duties of City employment.
1.90.020 Training And Travel

i.

Purpose. City employees may be permitted and/or required to attend seminars,
meetings, conferences and workshops when it is anticipated that the training and
information received by the officer or employee at such events will benefit the City. It
is the purpose of this policy to provide reasonable and systematic means by which
attendance and travel to such events will be approved and the cost estimated and
controlled for economic, budgetary, and auditing purposes. It is the intent of this
policy to provide adequate controls over travel expenditures and to maintain

accountability for such expenditures while allowing for flexibility.

Budget. The City shall allocate in its annual budget funds deemed appropriate for

travel expenditures. Each Department Head shall be responsible for keeping travel
expenditures within his or her respective department travel budget.

Eligibility. For purposes of this Policy, "travel" shall be considered any in state or out

of state trip taken by a City employee in the course of performing his or her duties,

including trips to or attendance at seminars, meetings, conferences and workshops.

All travel expenditures must be pre approved by the City Manager or designee as set
forth herein. All travel expenditures must be anticipated to serve a bona fide public

purpose and confer a benefit upon the City.
Procedure.

a) Application. An employee desiring to obtain travel funds shall file a Travel
Application with his or her Department Head, stating the purpose, details and
estimated expenses of the travel at least two (2) weeks prior to the desired date
of departure. Applications for travel by Department Heads shall be submitted
to the City Manager or designee and shall note the name of the person to be in
charge of the department during the Department Head’s absence.

b) Review. The employee’s Department Head shall review the application based
upon the requirements set forth herein, including review of the Department’s
travel budget. If the application does not require an overnight stay or air travel,
the Department Head may approve or deny the application. If the application
requires an overnight stay or air travel, the Department Head shall make a
recommendation to the City Manager or designee regarding approval or denial
of the application, and the City Manager or designee shall make the final
determination for approval or denial.

c) Advancements. Upon the request of the employee and timely submission of
the application, approved travel expenses, except per diem, may be advanced.

d) Receipts. The traveling officer or employee shall document expenses of the trip
and keep all original receipts and credit card receipts, provided that receipts
for meals covered by the per diem reimbursement shall not be required.

e) Documents. An expense report indicating the actual expenses of the trip,
except for per diem, together with all original required receipts shall be
submitted to the City Manager or designee within thirty (30) days after the
event in order to receive any payment or refund. As discussed in sections
9.020(d)(4) and 9.020(e)(3)(ii) government per diem amounts may be used in
lieu of actual receipts for meals.

Summary. The City Manager, designee or Council may request a written
summary or an oral report on all seminars, workshops, conferences or
conventions attended.

5. Standards.

a)

b)

c)

Mode of Transportation. Employees are responsible for arranging their own
transportation. The most economical form of transportation shall be used
considering factors such as the cost of the transportation and the amount of
time required. If any employee chooses a more costly form of transportation,
the City will pay the lesser cost of the two forms, and the per diem rate shall be
based upon the amount of time it would have taken under the less costly form
of transportation. If extra time is needed for the more costly form of
transportation, the employee shall use vacationPTO or compensatory time for
the excess time needed to reach the destination.

Costs. Employees are encouraged to utilize the lowest cost travel
arrangements possible. Airline reservations should be made, whenever
possible, at least thirty (30) days in advance. If a reduced airfare is offered for a
stay over a Saturday night, and the reduced rate more than compensates for
additional lodging and per diem costs, the employee is encouraged to stay
over the additional night. The government or corporate rate should be
requested at all hotels.

Permitted Expenses. The following allowances and payments may be made for
travel expenses.

i) Transportation. The City will pay for the cost of the most economical
form of transportation. Employees traveling in a private vehicle will be
reimbursed per mile and per vehicle at the current reimbursement rate
permitted by the Internal Revenue Service. Employees traveling in a
City vehicle will be reimbursed for the actual cost of gasoline and any
incidental and necessary costs incurred in connection with such vehicle.
Gasoline and other incidental and necessary cost receipts must be
provided for reimbursement.

ii) Meals. The City will pay the identified governmental per diem rate for
the city to where the employee is traveling, or the city will pay the
actual cost of meals. The city will not pay for incidentals, liquor, or other
extras included in meals or hotel stays. The employee must request the
per diem rate on the City-approved expense report to apply for
reimbursement. If the employee chooses to be reimbursed for meals, he
or she must submit receipts and the city approved expense report to
apply for reimbursement.

iii) Fees. The City wilt pay the actual and reasonable cost of registration
and other fees for seminars, workshops, conferences, and conventions.

iv) Ground Transportation. The City will pay the reasonable and necessary
costs for ground transportation, including airport shuttle, taxi cab,
rental car, and parking lot fees.

v) Lodging. The City will pay for the reasonable and necessary costs of
lodging if an overnight stay is required.

vi) Miscellaneous. The City may pay for other miscellaneous costs as
deemed reasonable and necessary by the City Manager or designee.

d) Personal Expenses. Employees traveling on City business, including employees
traveling with a spouse or other companion, shall strictly distinguish expenses
incurred as part of City business from personal expenses. The City will provide
reimbursement only for those expenses, which the employee would normally
incur if traveling alone. For example, the City will pay for the employee’s
lodging at the single room rate and the employee shall be required to pay for
any additional double occupancy lodging charge or upgrade. The City shall not
pay for personal expenses such as telephone charges, personal transportation
charges, room service charges, etc.
