                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE,UTAH
                                  ORDINANCE NO.2023-31


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
AMENDING BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TITLE 2(BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS)AND
PROVIDING FOR THE CREATION OF THE BLUFFDALE BUDGET REVIEW
COMMITTEE


        WHEREAS,Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City ofBluffdale(the"0'fy")authority
to enact ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council(the "City Council") considers necessary or
appropriate for the health, safety, and welfare of the City; and

       WHEREAS,the City Council finds that creation of a Budget Review Committee and
appointment ofcommittee members will help improve the transparency and clarity of the City
budget;

NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE,UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Amendment. Bluffdale City Code is hereby amended as shown on Exhibit
       A.


        Section 2.     Severabiiity. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of
this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

       Section 3.      Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

       PASSED AND APPROVED: December 13, 2023.




                                                            CORPORATE
                                                               SEAL




                                                                                           Page 1 of 3
ATTEST:




City Recorder


Voting by the Council:          Yes   No


       Councilmember Aston
       Councilmember Kallas
       Councilmember Crockett
       Councilmember Hales
       Councilmember Gaston




                                           Page 2 of3
Exhibit A -Bluffdale Budget Review Committee




                                               Page3of3
2.80 Budget Review Committee
2.80.010 Creation: Composition: Appointment
2.80.020 Mission: Powers And Duties: Operations
2.80.030 Term: Removal: Vacancies
2.80.040 Compensation

2.80.010 Creation: Composition

   1. Creation and Composition: There is hereby created and established a body
      designated as the Budget Review Committee, which shall be composed of not less
       than five (5) members and not more than seven (7) members.
   2. Appointment: The members shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and
       consent of the city council.
   3. Qualifications: All members of the Budget Review Committee shall be Bluffdale
      residents, city staff, or city council members. They should possess a background in
      finance or accounting. All members should also possess a basic understanding of
      government financial reporting and auditing.

2.80.020 Purpose: Powers And Duties: Operations

   1. Purpose: The Budget Review Committee shall review the annual budget and make
      recommendations to improve,the content, the transparency and clarity of the budget
       document
   2. Powers And Duties: As allowed by this chapter,the bylaws and other applicable law,
      and consistent with the budget approved by the city council, the Budget Review
       Committee shall:
          1. Develop a charter and any other documentation necessary to set forth the
             Budget Review Committee's operations, including, but not limited to,the
             selection of a chairperson; time, place and manner of calling of meetings and
             other procedural matters; provided, however,that there shall be at least one
             meeting each year. The Budget Review Committee shall submit such
             documents for review and approval by the city council. The Budget Review
              Committee shall review its charter and other documents no less than once
             every five (5) years to assess their continued adequacy.
         2. Learn and understand the financial needs and priorities of the city council and
             city management.
         3. Review the annual budget prior to management's submission of the budget to
             the city council and prepare a budget review report summarizing findings and
             recommendations to improve the content, clarity and transparency of the
             budget document.
   3. Accounting, Budget Provisions: This committee is an advisory committee and does not
      create a budget of its own. The initial budget presented to the city council is the city
      manager's tenative budget. The city council has discretion in all budgetary matters.
       The budget is the city council's budget from the time they approve the tentative
       budget.

2.80.030 Term: Removal: Vacancies


Members of the Budget Committee shall serve a three(3) year term,exceptfor the first
appointments,which shall be for the terms set forth herein. On the first appointment of
members ofthe Budget Review Committee,the mayor may designate no less than two(2) but
no more than three(3) members to serve terms ending in one year, no less than two(2) but
no more than three(3) members to serve terms ending in two years, and one(1) member to
serve a term ending in three years. Members may be removed by a two-thirds(Vs) vote of the
city council. Vacancies occurring through expiration of terms of appointment,death,
disability, resignation, moving from the city or removal by the city council, if applicable,shall
be filled by appointment by the mayor,with the advice and consent of the city council.

2.08.040 Compensation

No member of the Budget Review Committee shall receive compensation for their service.
