2.60 COMMUNITY GARDEN BOARD
2.60.010 Creation; Composition; Appointment
2.60.020 Mission; Powers And Duties; Operations
2.60.030 Term; Removal; Vacancies
2.60.040 Rules Of Procedure; Meetings
2.60.050 Compensation

2.60.010 Creation; Composition; Appointment

There is hereby created and established a body designated as the Bluffdale Community Garden
Board, which shall be composed of five (5) members. The members shall be appointed by the
mayor, with the advice and consent of the city council, and shall serve a three (3) year term,
except for the first appointments, which shall be for the terms set forth herein. On the first
appointment of members of the Bluffdale Community Garden Board, the mayor may designate
two (2) members to serve a term ending in one year, two (2) members to serve terms ending in
two years, and one (1) member to serve terms ending in three years. All members appointed shall
be residents of the city.

2.60.020 Purpose; Powers And Duties; Operations

   1. Purpose: The Bluffdale Community Garden Board shall promote the Bluffdale
      Community Garden through educating the public about opportunities to participate in the
      Bluffdale Community Garden and facilitating that participation. The Bluffdale
      Community Garden Board shall also act in an advisory capacity to the mayor and the city
      council in connection with the Bluffdale Community Garden.
   2. Powers And Duties: As allowed by this chapter, the bylaws and other applicable law, and
      consistent with the budget approved by the city council, the Bluffdale Community
      Garden Board may:
         1. Organize initiatives, programs, and events promoting knowledge of and
              participation in the Bluffdale Community Garden.
         2. Solicit funding or conduct fundraising events to facilitate such initiatives and
              programs. All public fundraising events shall have prior approval from the city
              council.
   3. Accounting, Budget Provisions: The collection and expenditure of funds by the Bluffdale
      Community Garden Board shall be under the direction of the mayor and city council
      pursuant to budgeting and accounting procedures currently established by city ordinance
      and related policies, state law and other applicable regulations. Prior to May 1 of each
      year, the Bluffdale Community Garden Board shall submit a proposed budget to the city
      council for the upcoming fiscal year.

2.60.030 Term; Removal; Vacancies

Except as set forth in section 2.60.010 of this chapter, the members appointed by the mayor, with
the advice and consent of the city council, shall serve three (3) year terms. Members may be
removed by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the city council. Vacancies occurring through expiration of
terms of appointment, death, disability, resignation, moving from the city or removal by the city
council, if applicable, shall be filled by appointment by the mayor, with the advice and consent
of the city council.

2.60.040 Rules Of Procedure; Meetings

The board shall formulate its own bylaws governing the operation of the Bluffdale Community
Garden Board, including, but not limited to, the selection of a chairperson, time, place and
manner of calling of meetings and other procedural matters; provided, however, that there shall
be at least one meeting each quarter.

2.60.050 Compensation

No member of the Bluffdale Community Garden Board shall receive compensation for their
service on the Bluffdale Community Garden Board.
