                                       ORDINANCE NO.2023-10


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,AMENDING BLUFFDALE
CITY CODE TITLE 2(BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS) AND PROVIDING FOR THE CREATION OF THE
HEALTHY BLUFFDALE COALITION BOARD


         WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the City") authority to enact
ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council (the "City Council") considers necessary or appropriate
for the health, safety, and welfare of the City; and

         WH EREAS, the City has received a grant from the Salt Lake County Health Department that
will provide funding for the City to develop a strategic planning framework to generate,investigate,
and evaluate public health projects and initiatives; and

      WHEREAS, the City Council finds that creation of a board and appointment of board
members will facilitate the development of the strategic planning framework and the
advancement of public health and wellness in the City.

NOW,THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

         SECTION 1. Amendment. Bluffdale City Code is hereby omenc/ed as shown on Exhibit A.

         SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance
and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,ON THIS 10th DAY OF
May,2023, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                        YES       NO    ABSTAIN          ABSENT


                        Councilmember Aston               /
                        Councilmember Crockett                    V
                        Councilmember Gaston
                        Councilmember Hales                       Z
                        Councilmember Kallas             Y



Mayor:               A                                  Attest:
                                                                  Deputy City Recorder



                                              CORPORATE


                                                                                                Page 1 of 2
Exhibit A-Healthy Biuffdaie Coalition Board




                                              Page 2of2
2.50 HEALTHY BLUFFDALE COALITION BOARD
2.50.010 Creation; Composition; Appointment
2.50.020 Mission; Powers And Duties; Operations
2.50.030 Term; Removal; Vacancies
2.50.040 Rules Of Procedure; Meetings
2.50.050 Compensation

2.50.010 Creation; Composition; Appointment

There is hereby created and established a body designated as the Healthy Bluffdale Coalition
Board, which shall be composed of not less than seven (7) nor more than thirteen (13) members.
The members shall be appointed by the Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council,
and shall serve a one (1) year term. All members appointed shall be residents of the city. To the
extent available in the community, the membership of the Healthy Bluffdale Coalition Board
should be composed of members with a demonstrated interest and involvement in the initiatives
that will promote healthy living.

2.50.020 Mission; Powers And Duties; Operations

   1. Mission: The mission of the Healthy Bluffdale Coalition Board is to actively promote
      healthy lifestyles. The Healthy Bluffdale Coalition Board shall act in an advisory
      capacity to the Mayor and the City Council in connection with the promotion of physical
      and mental health related initiatives, programs, events, articles, and publications within
      the city.
   2. Powers And Duties: As allowed by this chapter, the bylaws and other applicable law, and
      with the prior approval of the City Council, the Healthy Bluffdale Coalition Board may:
          1. Organize initiatives, programs, and events promoting improved physical and
              mental health.
          2. Solicit funding or conduct fundraising events to advance healthy living within the
              city and to accomplish the other purposes of the Healthy Bluffdale Coalition
              Board.
          3. Perform any other function that would further the purposes described herein.
   3. Accounting, Budget Provisions: The collection and expenditure of funds by the Healthy
      Bluffdale Coalition Board shall be under the direction of the Mayor and City Council
      pursuant to budgeting and accounting procedures currently established by city ordinance
      and related policies, state law and other applicable regulations. Prior to May 1 of each
      year, the Healthy Bluffdale Coalition Board shall submit a proposed budget to the City
      Council for the upcoming fiscal year.

2.50.030 Term; Removal; Vacancies

Except as set forth in section 2.50.010 of this chapter, the members appointed by the Mayor, with
the advice and consent of the City Council, shall serve three (3) year terms. Members may be
removed by a two-thirds (2/3) vote of the City Council. Vacancies occurring through expiration
of terms of appointment, death, disability, resignation, moving from the city or removal by the
City Council, if applicable, shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor, with the advice and
consent of the City Council.
2.50.040 Rules of Procedure; Meetings

The board shall formulate its own bylaws governing the operation of the Healthy Bluffdale
Coalition Board, including, but not limited to, the selection of a chairperson, time, place and
manner of calling of meetings and other procedural matters; provided, however, that there shall
be at least one meeting each quarter.

2.50.050 Compensation

No member of the Healthy Bluffdale Coalition Board shall receive compensation for their
service on the Healthy Bluffdale Coalition Board.
