                                       ORDINANCE NO.2023-08


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,AMENDING BLUFFDALE
CITY CODE SECTIONS 11.20.020 (DEFINITIONS) AND 11.340 (ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS)
UPDATING THE STANDARDS RELATED TO ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS


         WHEREAS, Utah Code§ 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale(the City") authority to enact
ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council(the "City Council") considers necessary or appropriate
for the use and development of land within the City; and

        WHEREAS,the subject text amendment modifies the regulations for the placement of
internal and detached accessory dwelling units to increase flexibility and safety in the City's housing
stock; and

        WHEREAS,the Planning Commission held public hearings and gave the City Council its
recommendation;and


        WHEREAS, after holding a public hearing and reviewing the subject text amendment,the
City Council finds that the subject text amendment will not negatively impact public health,safety,
and welfare.


NOW,THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

        SECTION 1. Amendment. Bluffdale City Code is hereby amended as follows:

                                              See Exhibit A


         SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable,such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance
and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

        SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,ON THIS 24th DAY OF
May,2023, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                         YES       NO    ABSTAIN          ABSENT


                        CouncilmemberAston
                        Councilmember Crockett             /
                        CouncilmemberGaston                /^
                        Councilmember Hales                   i/
                        Councilmember Kallas




                                                                                                  Page 1 of 3
Mayor:           (^oKL       Attest:
         Natal                         City Recorder




                 CORPORATE




                                                       Page 2of3
Exhibit A-Accessory Dwelling Ordinance Amendments




                                                    Page 3of3
Exhibit A-
Text Amendments to Accessory Dwelling Unit Land Use Regulations found in Bluffdale City Code




11.20.020 Definitions
Add New Definitions:



ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT(ADU): A habitable living unit added to. created within, or detached from
a primary dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term rental or
occupancy of thirty (30)consecutive davs or longer.

ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. DETACHED fP-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit, located in a permanent
structure with a permanent foundation, detached from a primary dwelling for the purpose of offering
a long-term rental or occupancy of thirty(30)consecutive days or longer.
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. INTERNAL H-ADU): An accessory dwelling unit created:

        A. Within a primary dwelling:

        B. Within the footprint ofthe primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling unit
is created: and

        C. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental or occupancy of thirty(30)consecutive davs
or longer.

PRIMARY DWELLING:A single family dwelling that is detached and is occupied as the primary
residence of the owner of record.




UPDATE EXISTING BLUFFDALE CITY CODE FOR ALL ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
(repeal and replace existing 11.340 Accessory Dwelling Unit Code in its entirety as follows)

11.340 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
11.340.010 Purpose
11.340.020 Scope
11.340.030 Approval Process
11.340.040 General Accessory Dwelling Unit Standards
11.340.050 D-ADU Development Standards
11.340.060 l-ADU Standards
11.340.070 Recorded Notice
11.340.080 Nonconforming Units
11.340.090 Violations
11.340.010 Purpose
The purpose of this chapter and anv rules, regulations,standards,and specifications adopted pursuant
hereto are to:


    A. Permit oropertv owners within certain residential zones to establish an accessory dwelling unit
       (ADU) within a single-familv dwelling or accessory building subiect to regulations set forth
        herein.
    B. Accommodate such housing in certain single-familv residential zones with minimal impacts on
       the neighborhood in terms of traffic, noise, parking, congestion and compatible scale and
       appearance of residential buildings.
    C. Prevent the proliferation of rental dwellings, absentee ownership, property disinvestment.
       Building Code violations and associated decline in quality of single-familv residential zones.
    D. Set forth standardized terms and standards for accessory dwelling units and procedures for
       review and approval of the same.

11.340.020 Scope


The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all ADUs within the Citv.

    A. Internal ADUs fl-ADUs)shall be a permitted use in all primary residentialzoning districts, mixed
       use zones,and special districtzones within single family dwellings on parcels greater than 6.000
       square feet.
    B. Detached ADUs fD-ADUs) shall be a permitted use in all primary residential zoning districts,
       mixed use zones, and special district zones on individual lots or parcels that contain no more
       than one single-familv dwelling.

11.340.030 Approval Process

    A. All property owners desiring to establish an ADU must apply for, and obtain, aporoval prior to
       utilizing the accessory dwelling unit, using forms provided bv the Planning Department.
    B. An ADU shall not be rented, leased, or occupied or offered for rent, lease or occupancy unless
       the owner of record possesses a valid ADU permit.
    C. Applications for ADUs shall be reviewed and approved bv the designated Land Use Authority in
       accordance with subsection 11.030.09010 of this title. The applicant and/or anv person
       adversely affected bv a decision of the Land Use Authority regarding the proposed ADU mav
       appeal such decision to the Appeal Authority, as designated in subsection 11.030.090fl)of this
       title, bv filing written notice of aooeal with the Planning Department within ten (10) calendar
        days from the date of such decision.
    D. An ADU Permit issued bv the Land Use Authority shall be reouired for the development and use
       of anv ADU and shall only be issued once all regulations and standards of this chapter as
       applicable to the specific type of ADU are met.
    E. Building Permit Required. All applicants for ADU approval shall obtain a building permit for
       construction or inspection associated with the proposed ADU.regardless of timing and
       method of creation or whether a non-permitted ADU has previously completed construction.
       No ADU permit and/or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for an ADU until all associated
       construction is complete and inspected pursuant to applicable building codes.
    F. Statement of Owner Occupancy. An application for an ADU shall include documentation, using
       forms provided bv the Planning Department,that demonstrates an owner occupant resides in
       the primary dwelling or the ADU on the property pursuant to subsection 11.340.040(1).


11.340«040 General Accessory DweUine Unit Standards
The following standards and conditions shall aoplv to all accessory dwelling units:

    A. Location: An l-ADU must be enclosed within the primary dwelling.
    B. Primary dwellings are not permitted to contain more than one l-ADU. l-ADUs are not permitted
         within a D-ADU or other detached structure.
    C. i-ADUs are not permitted within mobile homes.
    D. ADUs are not permitted within a primary dwelling unit or on a parcel serviced bv a failing
       septic system.
    E. Separate utility meters may not be installed for any l-ADU or D-ADU.
    F. An l-ADU or D-ADU shall not be rented or leased for a period of less than thirty (30)consecutive
       days. Only one rental agreement or lease shall be in effect at any one time.
    G. Size: The ADU shall be accessory and subordinate to the primary dwelling.
           a. Accessory and subordinate requires the ADU to be no more than fifty percent(50%)of
               the total square footage of all floors of the primary dwelling, as shown on Salt Lake
               County Assessor's Office records, not including any attached garage floor space.
    H. The primary dwelling associated with any ADU shall be occupied bv the owner of record as their
       primary residence and shall not be separately rented or offered for rent. If the primary dwelling
         associated with the ADU ceases to be occupied bv the owner of record, the ADU shall not be
         rented, leased, hired, occupied,or loaned. Owner occupancy of the primary dwelling shall not
         be required when:
             a. The owner has a bona fide,temporary absence of three years or less for activities such
                as military service,temporary job assignments,sabbaticals,or voluntary service
                (indefinite periods of absence from the dwelling shall not qualify for this exception): or
             b. The owner is placed in a hospital, nursing home,assisted living facility or other similar
                facility that provides regular medical care,excluding retirement living facilities or
                communities:
            c. For UP to 90 days when the property is changing ownership: or
            d. The owner lives in an approved ADU.
    I.   Number:A maximum of one ADU shall be allowed per parcel which contains a primary dwelling.
         ADUs shall contain no more than one dwelling unit.
    J. D-ADUs shall not be permitted for any property containing an l-ADU. As a condition of approval
         for a new D-ADU the owner of record shall agree to waive any right to create an l-ADU on the
       same property unless the D-ADU is first removed from the property. This condition shall be
       included in the recorded notice of accessory dwelling unit required bv section 11.340.070 ofthis
       chapter.
    K. Parking: At least one(1) off-street parking stall shall be constructed for an l-ADU. A minimum
       of two(2) off-street parking spaces shall be constructed for a D-ADU. Parking stalls for ADUs
       shall be constructed of an all-weather surface rolled and compacted road base,asphalt,or
       concrete surface which meet the dimensional requirements of Chapter 11.120 of this Title.
       Such parking stalls shall be in addition to all off-street parking requirements for the primary
        dwelling on the lot and be reserved for exclusive use bv occupants of the approved ADD.The
        parking stalls for the ADU shall be located behind the front plane of the dwelling and shall not
        impede or prevent access to the primary dwelling's required parking. The parking stall mav be
        in a garage only if the stall is in addition to the required number of parking spaces for the
        primary dwelling and is not a tandem parking stall. Driveways must conform to all applicable
        building and fire code requirements and adopted standards. See Figure 1 for illustration of
        permissible parking locations for ADUs.
    L. All ADUs shall comply with all applicable building, health and fire codes in effect at the time
        the ADU is constructed,created or subsequently remodeled.The owner of record shall be
        responsible to ensure that all required building permits and other permits are obtained for the
        creation of an ADU.
    M. ADUs that have been previously completed before July 1.2023. and cannot be shown to have
       complied with building permit and inspection requirements for an ADU in effect at the time of
       their construction shall comply with the requirements of the International Existing Building
       Code and other applicable adopted building and fire codes and shall comply with all permit
       procedures and requirements of the City.
    N. Number of Residents. The total number of residents that reside in an ADU may not exceed the
        number allowed for a "family"for the lot on which the accessory dwelling unit is found,as
        defined in BCC 11.20.
    0. Home Occupations. Home occupations may be conducted in an ADU as allowed per Title 3 of
       the BCC. Standards for home occupations and associated impacts shall be calculated on a
       total per parcel basis, not per ADU.
    P. Addressing. Separate addressing and mailboxes for ADUs are not allowed.
    R. Continuing Use: Approval of an ADU shall run with the land if it complies with all adopted
        requirements.

11.340.050: D-ADU Development Standards:

The development standards set forth in this section shall apply to each D-ADU:

A. Separate Structure: A D-ADU is a separate structure from the primary dwelling contained on the
same lot or parcel as the primary dwelling.
B. Conditions: A D-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of section 11.340.040 of this
Title and all the following conditions:

        1. Only one D-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.

         2. A D-ADU shall comply with the same setbacks for an accessory building in the zoning
district in which the lot or parcel is located. Regardless of size, a D-ADU cannot be created within a
building or structure which has utilized the reduced side and rear setbacks allowed for small
accessory buildings or structures found in BCC 11.160.260. All structures shall also comply with the
maximum lot coverage percentages for the zone in which it resides.
        3. A D-ADU shall be located within the rear or side yard area of the lot or parcel and is
prohibited within the front yard area.

       4. The habitable square footage of a D-ADU shall be 400 square feet or greater in size.
       5. AD-ADU shall complvwith all building construction and fire codes in effect at the time the
D-ADU is constructed,created or subsequently remodeled,including obtaining the required building
and other permits.

        6. D-ADUs shall be a permanent structure anchored to a foundation which meets the adopted
building codes. Trailers, mobile homes,tinv homes with wheels,and other portable or temporary
structures, or structures with wheels shall not be permitted as a D-ADU.

        7. Exterior lighting shall provide illumination directed downward. Light source shall be
shielded and not be visible from adjacent properties.

        8. Windows on a fa(;:ade. located within 20 feet of an adjacent property containing a single
family or townhome residence,shall be translucent or installed as a skylight.

        9. Exterior stairways and landings shall not encroach within 20 feet of an adjacent property
containing a single family or townhome residence.
       10. Balconies on a D-ADU shall be located on the interior side of the lot and building, not
adiacent to a rear or side yard shared with a neighboring residence,and:
        a. Shall not exceed 80 square feet in size when located aboye the ground leyel of the building:
        b. Shall be located a minimum of 20 feet from a side or rear yard lot line unless the applicable
        side or rear yard lot line is adjacent to an alley.

        c. Rooftop decks or second-story decks are orohibited on an accessory structure used as a D-
       ADU.

       11. The height of a D-ADU shall conform to the height limit specified for accessory buildings in
the zoning district in which it is located.
       12. A second kitchen in a D-ADU is not allowed.

       13. Entrance Locations. The entrance to a D-ADU shall be located:


       a. Facing an alley, public street, rear or side facade of the primary dwelling, or rear yard ofthe
single-family dwelling on the same property.

       b. Facing a side or rear property line proyided the entrance is located a minimum of 10 feet
from the side or rear property line if at ground leyel or first story leyel or 20 feetfrom side or rear
orooerty line if aboye the first story.


       c. Exterior stairs leading to an entrance shall be located a minimum of 20feet from a side or
rear property line.
       FIGURE 1 PERMISSIBLE ADU PARKING LOCATIONS




                                          NOT TO SCALE




                                                  LEGEND

                                                  Y//////^, >^0 parkzone
                                                              PROPERTY UNE




                                       NAME
             BLUFFDALE
                                      EXHIBIT A




11.34.060: l-APU Development Standards;

The develoomentstandards set forth in this section shall aoplv to each l-ADU in addition to the
general standards for ail ADUs found in 11.340.040:

A. Existing Structure: An l-ADU shall be contained within the footprint of the primary dwelling, which
can also be above an attached garage.The existence of a second kitchen within the primary dwelling's
footprint does not, bv itself, qualify a living space as an l-ADU. An existing second kitchen located
within a primary dweiiing can be converted to an l-ADU as part of an aoplication for the creation of an
l-ADU in compliance with all other standards for l-ADUs listed in this chaoter.
B. Conditions: An l-ADU shall comply with the applicable requirements of this chapter and with all the
following conditions:

1. Only one l-ADU shall be allowed per lot or parcel.

2. If an l-ADU is created within a garage or carport attached to the primary dwelling,the parking
spaces contained within the garage or carport that are removed shall be replaced in accordance with
adopted parking and access standards.

3. The l-ADU shall comply with all applicable building, health, and fire codes in effect at the time the
l-ADU is constructed,created, or subsequently remodeled.The owner of record shall be responsible to
ensure that all required building permits and other oermits are obtained for the creation of an l-ADU.

4. In accommodating an l-ADU within the primary dwelling,the exterior of the primary dwelling mav
not be changed or altered in a manner that would alter the appearance of the primary dwelling from
that of a single-family dwelling.
5. Design And Character: l-ADUs shall retain the compatibility of the primary dwelling with the
residential character ofthe neighborhood. l-ADUs shall include materials comparable to those used on
and within the primary dwelling.
6. Ownership: The single-familv dwelling and the l-ADU shall remain in single ownership and either
the single-family dwelling or the l-ADU shall be owner occupied in accordance with 11.340.040.
7. Entrance Locations. Entrances to an l-ADU shall only be permitted in the following locations:

        a. An existing entrance to the single-familv dwelling:
        b. Exterior stairs on lots other than a corner lot, leading to an entrance above or below the first
        level ofthe principal structure, mav be located on a side or rear elevation of a building:
        c. Located on the rear facade of the dwelling.


11.340.070 Recorded Notice



A. As part of the ADU permit process,the owner of the oropertv shall execute a "notice
of accessorv dwelling unit" affidavit. The Citv shall record the notice with the Countv Recorder as a
use condition on the prooertv. The notice shall be in a form approved bvthe Bluffdale Citv Attornev.
Once recorded, a copv ofthe notice shall be delivered to the owner of record.
B. The notice of accessorv dwelling unit shall include:
        1. A legal description and address of the prooertv: and

        2. Either of the following statements as applicable to the tvpe of ADU permit being issued:
                a. The primarv dwelling contains an approved l-ADU and that the l-ADU mav onlv be
        used in accordance with the land use regulations of the Citv of Bluffdale: or

                b. The propertv has an approved D-ADU and that the D-ADU mav onlv be used in
        accordance with the land use regulations of the Citv of Bluffdale.
11.340.080: Nonconforming Units:

A. ADUs legally established prior to July 1.2023. mav continue to operate under the applicable
provisions in effect at the time thev were approved and established in accordance with this chapter of
the BCC. Provided, however,legal nonconforming ADUs shall obtain and maintain an ADD oermit
under the procedures of section 11.340.030.

B. ADUs converted from existing accessorv buildings that were completed before Julv 1.2023.do not
have to modify existing entrance locations - including exterior stairwavs - if all applicable building and
fire codes are met.

11.340.090 Violations

Violations of this chapter shall be enforced consistent with this title and Utah state code and mav
include fines and liens.

A. Notice of Violation:

        1. Whenever an owner of record has violated anv ofthe provisions of this chapter the Citv
shall provide a written notice of violation. The notice of violation shall:

                a. Describe the violation:

                b. Provide the owner of record an opportunity to cure or correct the violation that is:

                           (11 Not less than fourteen (14) davs after the notice of violation is issued,for
                violations of BCC 11.340.040(G):

                           (2l Not less than thirty (30) davs after the notice of violation is issued for anv
                other violation:

                c. Include a statement that if the owner of record fails to cure the violation within the
        given time period that thev mav be subject to dailv fines, liens,the revocation of permits or
        aoorovals.criminal prosecution, and other enforcement actions permitted bv applicable law:

                d. Provide notification to the owner of record that thev mav file a written obiection to
        the violation within fourteen (14) davs after the dav on which the written notice of violation is
        post-marked or posted on the property:

                e. Indicate the department name and address where the owner of record mav file the
        written objection:

                f. Be mailed to the owner of record,or to anv other individual designated to receive
        notice in the owner's license or permit records, and a coov shall be posted on the property.

       2. If an owner of record files a written objection to the written notice of violation in
accordance with Utah Code 10-9a-530(5). as amended,the Zoning Administrator shall provide notice,
hold a hearing,and conduct a review to determine whether the violation described in the written
notice of violation has occurred. If the Zoning Administrator determines that the violation in the
notice of violation has occurred,the citv mav imoose anv of the remedies listed in this section or
others as permitted bv aoplicable law.
       3. If an owner of record does not file a written objection to the notice of violation and does
not cure the violation within the time period provided in the notice,the citv mav impose anv of the
remedies listed in this section or others as permitted bv applicable law.

        4. if an owner of record cures a violation within the time period prescribed in the notice of
violation, or if the Zoning Administrator finds that the violation listed in the notice of violation has not
occurred,the citv mav not impose sanctions.

B. Liens:

        1. Notice of lien:

                a. A written notice of lien issued under this section shall:

                         fl) Complv with the requirements of Utah Code 38-12-102 as amended:
                         il) State that the propertv is subject to a lien:

                       (3) Specifv the lien amount for each dav of violation after the dav on which
                the opportunity to cure the violation expired: and

                       (4) Be mailed to the owner of record, or to anv other individual designated to
                receive notice in the owner's license or permit records,and a copv of the notice shall
                be posted on the propertv.

                b. Each notice of lien shall be recorded with the respective countv recorder.

C. Remedies:

        1. Revocation.

                a. In addition to cases of an uncured violation as set forth above,an ADD permit mav
        be revoked if the Zoning Administrator determines:

                         fl) The permit was procured bv false representation: or

                         (2) The permit was issued bv mistake.

                b. After the written notice of revocation is served no further construction for an ADD
        mav continue until a new permit is issued,or the permit is reinstated bv the Zoning
        Administrator.

                c. If the permit was issued bv mistake,the citv shall notify the owner of record of the
        mistake and the actions or changes that must be made to bring the ADD into compliance with
        applicable requirements and ordinances.

               d. For properties where a permit has been revoked for anv reason other than a
        mistake,a new or reinstated ADU permit mav not be issued except in conformance with
        applicable ordinances, resolutions, regulations,and requirements.
                e. Properties for which an ADU permit has been revoked mav be subject to the
        recordation of a notice of non-compliance against the propertv and shall be prohibited from
        renting, leasing, hiring or loaning the accessory dwelling unit.
2. The city shall have such other remedies as are and mav be from time to time provided bv Utah law
or city ordinance for the violation of anv provision of this title.
3. All remedies pertaining to violations of this chapter are cumulative.




                                                  10
