CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

ORDINANCE NO. 2023-20

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING
BLUFFDALE CITY CODE 11.150.080 and 11.160.290 REGARDING ASSURANCES FOR THE
COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS WITH APPLICABLE ADOPTED CITY ENGINEERING
STANDARDS RELATED TO DEVELOPMENT.

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-604.5 allows municipalities to provide assurances for the
installation and completion of all public improvements; and

WHEREAS, the City currently requires assurances of completion for public improvements for
new subdivisions and desires consistent requirements for all new developments including commercial
site plans prior to building permits being issued by amending BCC 11.150.080, and

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-604.5 does not allow municipalities to require a completion
assurance bond for landscaping of any private or off-site improvements; the text amendments modify
the Bluffdale City Code 11.160.290 eliminating bonding for landscaping for all new residential
development and adds clarifying text for the landscaping requirements to adhere to the City’s
adopted water efficiency standards; and

WHEREAS, the Bluffdale Planning Commission has held a public hearing and gave its
recommendation to the City Council; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has held a public hearing and reviewed the subject text
amendments and finds that the subject text amendments will enhance the public health, safety, and
welfare.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

Section 1. Text Amendments. The City Council hereby amends BCC 11.20, 11.150.080,
11.160.290 as indicated in Exhibit ‘A’:

See Exhibit ‘A’

SECTION 1. Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this Ordinance
and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS LL.
DAY OF £ el , 2023 BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

YES NO ABSTAIN ABSENT

Councilmember Aston Yo |
Councilmember Crockett x |
Councilmember Gaston iy |

Councilmember Hales a

Councilmember Kallas

Attest: OAs a

City Recorder d

EXHIBIT A

Bluffdale City Code 11.150.080 and 11.160.290 Text Amendments

11.150.080 Assurances for Completion of Improvements

A. Completion of Installation: Landscaping, sprinkling systems, walls, fences and/or screening
structures, walks, parking areas and other on and required off-site improvements shall be installed
in accordance with the approved site plan and construction drawings prior to issuance of any
occu ApaLIey permith Po eee of sa required public efthese improvements

. 3 we s€eS_an improvemen etion

assurance i l ae ted in acc siete wilh te sieiilaniied in Subsection B prior to thei issuance
of any buildin itwithint roved si = ne3565 3+ [evap

erdeveleper, If the installation of othe ui a on or «off-site in L aeemmeee cannot be
completed due to weather or other reasonable circumstances, as approved by the Zoning
Administrator, a conditional certificate of occupancy may be issued if a performance sectrityand
deferrat-agreement is signed by the applicant/owner or developer which shall guarantee
completion of all unfinished improvements, in a form approved by the City.
BL Public Improvement Completion Assurance:
1. The applicant shall post an acceptable ——— comp! letion assurance Ccompletion
assurance’) prior to the issuance of any buildi
mount ted by the City Engineer. sufficient o secu tot city satisfacto
construction, installation, and dedicatio i

improvements. The amount of the completion otmunel cabal = in cackorl anes with the

Ci ae Consolidated Fee Schedule.

2

a to iets ity attorney as. to ni sufficioney anita manner = execution as set
forth by ie Ci ity attorney. The cone.eion assurance shall not be used to pay any

3. The completion assurance agreement shall be completed on the City supplied bond
agreement form for the full infrastructure impr ents cost a one of the

following forms:
a. An. escrow. ——s and — account with a federally insured — orcredit

upon the City presenting a sight draft at an office locatedwithin fifty (50) rile of

e City. ae arty bond a: ent.
b. Cash ora cashier's check, for deposit with the City in its bank accounts. (Two party
bond agreement.)
c. The completion assurance shall be approved by the City Engineer with surety and
onditions satis to protect the ic's inte ensure ction of
required improvements.

assurance,

= a2 7 > veri
sconlbed palllicenpcomemnenits —_ ra salisinteie completed and until the = apoli ant's
a ae City En io}

equal to ten percent (10%) of the estimated construction cost = in a form satisfactory to

the City attorney, in order to assure the i niti i
improvements and amenities for a pe

by the City Engineer and dedication to the City,

11.160.290 Landscaping fdit

1.

Each single family idan Ne unit shall I Isedecape t the lot or parcel from the front of
the unit tothe street pri : 2-0!

nti eecuial Tisceping shall be 7 completed within one year fade fis dite of
the certificate of occupancy. FRetea

All landscaping shall adhere to the City's s candied eat ipannay se ames
applicable Sstandards.

