                                         BLUFFDALE CITY, UTAH
                                       ORDINANCE NO.2024 - 03


    AN ORDINANCE OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY COUNCIL AMENDING SUBDIVISION PROVISIONS AND
                                              PROCEDURES



       WHEREAS, Bluffdale City, pursuant to Utah State Code, may adopt an ordinance to establish land
development regulations which includes the adoption or amendment of zoning text or map and other
land use regulations; and

       WHEREAS, revisions to the existing Land Use Regulations of Bluffdale City are required to comply
with Senate Bill 174(2023); and

       WHEREAS, Bluffdale City has authority to adopt subdivision regulations and procedures pursuant
to Utah Code Ann.§ 10-9a-501 or identify other statute or ordinance that provides authority in
accordance with the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Chapter 9a, Utah
Code,to establish an administrative land use authority for subdivisions and other provisions as
necessary and appropriate to comply with revisions to the existing Land Use Regulations of Bluffdale City
are required to comply with Senate Bill 174(2023); and

       WHEREAS, during the review of the SB174 changes. Staff recommended other ministerial
updates to Title 11 and 12 pertaining to the processing of subdivisions that comport with current best
practices, other provisions of the Utah State Code and miscellaneous typographical corrections; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah State Code,the Planning Commission shall prepare and recommend
any Zoning text amendments to the City Council; and


       WHEREAS, the Planning Commission voted 4-0 to recommend approval of the Land Use
Regulations text amendment in a public meeting held on January 17,2024; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code, it is the responsibility of the City
Council to consider the Land Use Regulations text amendment and Planning Commission recommendation
in a public meeting; and

       WHEREAS, a City Council public meeting was held on January 24, 2024, at 6 p.m. to discuss the
Land Use Regulations text amendment; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the best interest of the citizens of Bluffdale City to
adopt the Land Use Regulations text amendment, which was recommended by the Planning Commission;

       NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Bluffdale City Council for the approval to amend the
Bluffdale City Land Use Regulations, Title 11, and the Bluffdale City Subdivision Ordinance, Title 12, as
described in Exhibit "A."
This Ordinance assigned Ordinance No. 2024-03, shall take immediate effect as soon as it shall be
published or posted as required by law and deposited and recorded in the office of the City's recorder.

PASSED AND APPROVED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,ON THIS 24^^^ DAY OF
JANUARY 2024, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:


                                                  YES     NO     ABSTAIN       ABSENT


                     Councilmember Aston
                     Councilmember Austin           T/
                     Councilmember Crockett
                     Councilmember Lord            17
                     Councilmember Wilding



                                           BLUFFDALE CITY




ATTEST:                                    Mayoi: Nnalie Hall




                                                    CORPORA'^t
EXHIBIT A - PROPOSED TEXT
AMENDMENTS




12.10.010 Short Title


This title shall be known as the BLUFFDALE CITY SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE or
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. This title shall also be known as title 12 of this code. It may be
cited and pleaded under any ofthe above stated designations.(Ord. 2019-17,9-25-2019)

12.10.020 Purpose


The purposes of this title, and any rules, regulations, standards and specifications hereafter
adopted pursuant hereto or in conjunction herewith are:

     A. To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare^
     B. To regulate future growth and development activity within the city in a manner which
        promotes the physical integration of diverse housing forms, the preservation of
        Bluffdale City community values and the social integration of residents from diverse
        backgrounds in accordance with the general plan; and to promote the efficient and
        orderly growth ofthe citv: andr
     C.To provide procedures and standards for the physical development of subdivisions of
       land and construction ofbuildings and improvements thereon within the city, including,
       but not limited to, the construction and installation of roads, streets, curbs, gutters,
       sidewalks, parks, trails, and open spaces, drainage systems, water and sewer systems,
       design standards for public facilities and utilities, access to public rights-of-way,
       dedication ofland and streets, granting easements or rights-of-way and to establish fees
       and other charges for the authorizing of a subdivision and for the development of land
       and improvements thereon.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.10.030 Interpretation


In their interpretation and application,the provisions ofthis title shall be considered as minimum
requirements for the purposes set forth. Where the provisions of this title impose greater
restrictions than any statute, other regulation, ordinance or covenant, the provisions ofthis title
shall prevail. Where the provisions of any statute, other regulation, ordinance or covenant
impose greater restrictions than the provisions of this title, the provisions of such statute, other
regulation, ordinance or covenant shall prevail.(Ord. 2019-17,9-25-2019)

12.10.040 General Considerations


     A. General Plan: The general plan shall guide the use and future development of all land
        within the corporate boundaries of the city. The size and design of lots, the nature of
        utilities, the design and improvement of streets, the type and intensity of land use, and
        the provisions for any facilities in any subdivision shall conform to the land uses shown
   and the standards established in the genera! plan, the zoning ordinance, and other
   applicable ordinances.
B. Preservation; Design: Trees, native land cover, natural watercourses, and topography
   shall be preserved where possible. Subdivisions shall be so designed as to prevent
   excessive grading and scarring of the landscape. The design of new subdivisions shall
   consider, and relate to, existing street widths, alignments and names.
C.Community Facilities: Community facilities, such as parks, recreation areas, trails, and
  transportation facilities shall be provided in the subdivision in accordance with general
  plan standards, this title, and other applicable ordinances. This title establishes
  procedures for the referral of information on proposed subdivisions to interested
   boards, bureaus, and other governmental agencies and utility companies, both private
   and public, so that the extension of community facilities and utilities may be
   accomplished in an orderly manner, coordinated with the development of this
   subdivision. In order to facilitate the acquisition of land areas required to implement
   this policy,the applicant may be required to dedicate, grant easements over orotherwise
   reserve land for parks, playgrounds, public ways, utility easements, and other public
   purposes.

D. Vesting OfZoning Rights:
        1. An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the application
           conforms to the requirements of this and other applicable titles of this code in
            effect when a complete application is submitted and all fees have been paid,
            unless:

                a. The administrative land use authority, on the record, finds that a
                    compelling, countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by
                    approving the application; or
                b. Before the application is submitted and deemed complete, the city has
                    formally initiated proceedings to amend its ordinances as provided for
                    in these ordinances that would prohibit approval of the application as
                      submitted.


        2. The city shall process an application without regard to proceedings initiated to
            amend the municipality's ordinances if:
                a. One hundred eighty(180)days have passed since the proceedings were
                      initiated; and

                b. The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits the
                    approval ofthe application, as submitted.

        3. An application for a land use approval is considered submitted and complete
            when the application is provided in a form that complies with the requirements
           of applicable ordinances and all applicable fees have been paid.
        4. The continuing validity of an approval of a land use application is conditioned
            upon the applicant proceeding after approval to implement the approval with
            reasonable diligence.
            5. The city shall may not impose on a holder of a subdivision approval, a
                requirement that is not expressed:
                     a. In the land use permit or in documents on which the land use permit is
                         based; or

                     b. In the city's ordinances.

            6. The city vt4ti-mav not withhold issuance of a certificate of occupancy because
                of an applicant's failure to comply with a requirement that is not expressed:
                     a. In the building permit or in documents on which the building permit is
                         based; or

                     b. In the city's adopted standards and ordinances. (Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-
                         2019)

12.10.050 General Responsibilities


    A. The applicant shall prepare concept plans and plats consistent with the city development
       standards and shall pay for the design, city review, construction, and city inspection and
       testing of all public improvements and private improvements. These improvements
       include all required infrastructure within the public rights-of-way and private storm
       drain, private streets, fire hydrants, and on site culinary water within city's service area.
       The city shall process the plans and plats in accordance with the regulations set forth
        herein. The applicant shall inav not alter the terrain or remove any vegetation from the
        proposed subdivision site or engage in any site development until applicant has obtained
       the necessary approvals as required in this code. The applicant is responsible to obtain
       and be familiar with all applicable subdivision ordinances, rules and standards of the
       city.
    B. The zoning administrator, or their designee, shall review the plans and plats for design;
       for conformity to the general plan and to the zoning ordinance; and shall process the
       subdivision plats and reports as provided for in this title.
    C. Plats and/or plans of proposed subdivisions may be referred by the zoning administrator
       to any city departments and special districts, governmental boards, bureaus, utility
       companies, and other agencies which will provide public and private facilities and
       services to the subdivision for their information and comment.

    D.The city engineer, or their designee, shall review for compliance the engineering plans
      and specifications for the city required improvements for the subdivision and whether
      the proposed city required improvements are consistent with this title, city design and
      construction standards, and other applicable ordinances, and shall be responsible for
      inspecting the city required public improvements and private improvements within the
       public rights-of-way and private storm drain, private streets, fire hydrants, and on-site
      culinary water within the city's service area. The citv enuinecr. or their desiunee. shall
      also manaue and direct Security security proceeds collection and administration, and
      the collection of certain fees. Street layout and overall circulation shall be coordinated
      with transportation planning by the zoning administrator and city engineer.
    E. The public works director, or their designee, shall review and make comments on the
       design engineering plans and specifications for the city required improvements related
       to long term maintenance and preservation provisions, snowplowing,snowplow storage
       areas, waste management collection and vehicle turnaround, city culinary water
       infrastructure and service lateral maintenance, streetlight service and all other related
       aspects pertaining to public works utility and infrastructure maintenance to the city
       engineer and the zoning administrator. The public works director may assist the city
       engineer in performing inspections.
    F. The designated land iiso authority shall rocoive public coinnunl at ii piihlic hearing, if
       roquirod. regarding propoiiijii iiubdisTiion-i. The administrative land use authority may
       approve, approve with conditions or, ifthe project does not meet adopted city standards
       and ordinances, terminate processing the application until such time that the application
       complies with all adopted standards and ordinances.
    G.The city engineer or their designee shall verify that the security proceeds provided by
      the applicant is acceptable, that the applicant dedicating land for use ofthe public is the
      owner ofrecord, that the land is free and clear of unacceptable encumbrances according
      to the title report submitted by the applicant, and may review matters of title such as
      easements and plats.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.10.060 Accurate Information


    A. All documents, plans, reports, studies and information provided to the city by the
       applicant in accordance with the requirements of this title shall be accurate and
       complete. Any action taken or approval given by the city based upon incomplete or
       inaccurate documents, plans, reports, studies or information supplied to the city by the
       applicant may be voidable.
    B. All engineering drawings, plats, reports, and other similar documents shall be stamped
       by a registered professional engineer or others as required, licensed to practice in the
       state of Utah.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.10.070 Compliance Required


    A. It shall be unlawful for any person to subdivide any tract or parcel of land which is
        located wholly or in part in the city except in compliance with this title. No plat of any
        subdivision shall mav be recorded until it has been submitted and approved as herein.
        A platshati-mav not be approved ifthe aJminisiraiivc land use authority determines such
        plat to be in conflict with any provision or portion ofthe general plan, master traffic and
        transportation plan, master parks and trails plan, zoning ordinance, this title, adopted
        building and/or fire codes, or any other state law or city ordinance or standard.
    B. Land or lots within a proposed subdivision shall mav not be transferred or sold until a
       final plat of a subdivision has been recorded in accordance with this title and any
       applicable provisions of state law. Recordation of the plat shall mav not occur until the
       improvements required in connection with the subdivision have been completed;
       however, upon the developer's request, the city may record the plat prior to the
   installation of all improvements if the developer has first guaranteed the installation of
   improvements as provided herein. Construction of any improvements related to the
   subdivision, including any land disturbance, shall inav not be commenced until a land
   disturbance permit has been issued for the project.
C. All lots, plots or tracts of land located within a subdivision shall be subject to this title
    whether the tract is owned by the applicant or a subsequent purchaser, transferee,
   devisee, or contract purchaser ofthe land or any other person.
D.Restrictive Covenants: If the applicant places restrictions on any of the land contained
   in the subdivision greater than those required by this title or any other city regulation or
  requirement,such as restrictions or reference thereto may be required to be indicated on
  the final plat or recorded with the county recorder. The city has no role or responsibility
  in creating or enforcing private covenants.
E. A building permit shall may not be issued on a parcel or tract of land within a
   subdivision until:

        1. All infrastructure improvements essential to meet the requirements to issue a
            building permit under the adopted building code and fire code and city
            ordinances; or

        2. The applicant has provided an improvement completion assurance for the
            required landscaping and/or infrastructure improvements to the city.

F. The issuance of a building permit for one model home per twenty (20) lots within a
   recorded subdivision, not to exceed four(4)total model homes in any one(1)recorded
   subdivision plat, may be allowed prior to the completion of all required subdivision
   improvements, subject to the following conditions:
        1. The model home is limited to non-residential occupancy. This limitation shall
            be formalized in an agreement acceptable to the city attomey which shall be
            executed prior to the issuance of any building permit for the structure. The
            agreement shall include the requirement that conversion to residential
            occupancy shall be subject to an additional final building inspection and the
            installation of all required subdivision roquircMnentG iinpiovements in-the entire
            subdivision; and

        2. Model homes shall inav onlv be constructed within seven hundred fifty feet
           (750') of the subdivision's entrance where it meets a fully improved public
            street.

G. Until the subdivision is completed and conditionally accepted by the city engineer and
   all appropriate agencies, the applicant shall be responsible for the following in the area
   where building permits have been issued:
        1. Maintaining public roads in a manner that allows continuous access for
            emergency vehicles;
        2. Maintaining public roadways and all drainage facilities free and clear ofdirt and
            debris which might obstruct water flow or quality of storm water flows;
        3. Maintaining continuous flow capacities to all hydrants in the subdivision; and
            4. Installing and maintaining street signs.

    H.All public improvements miiijt shall be constructed in accordance with the following:
               1. The city's adopted standards and specifications;
               2. The requirements of the city engineer;
               3. The development agreement between the applicant and the city (if applicable);
                  and

            4. All other applicable city ordinances and regulations.

     I.The city wUTmav not withhold a certificate of occupancy unless:
               1. The applicant and the city have agreed in a written document to the withholding
                   of certificates of occupancy; or
               2. The applicant has not completed the required landscaping and infrastructure
                   improvements as adopted in city ordinances, or the applicant has not provided
                   assurance for the incomplete landscaping and infrastructure improvements as
                   adontodallowed bv —m city ordinances and adopted rcaiilations and life safetv
                  codes.

               3. The city shall mav not require assurances for private infrastructure
                   improvements that are not required by the adopted building code, fire code,
                   flood or storm water regulations, street and access requirements, or other
                   necessary public safety improvements as adopted in the city's ordinances,
                   standards and specifications. Nothing in this section sha41-ma\ prevent the city
                   from requiring assurances for private landscaping as required by city
                   ordinances or an applicable development agreement or adopted project plan.
                  (Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)


12.10.080 Prohibited Acts


    A. An owner of any land located in a subdivision, as defined in Utah Code § 10-9a-103,
       who transfers or sells any land in that subdivision before a plat of the subdivision has
       been approved and recorded violates this chapter for each lot or parcel transferred or
       sold.

    B. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other documents
       used in the process of selling or transferring does not exempt the transaction from being
       a violation of subsection A ofthis section or from the penalties or remedies provided in
       chapter 1-4 of this code.
    C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the recording of an instrument of
       transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring real property
       that violates this section:

               1. Does not affect the validity of the instrument or other document; and
               2. Does not affect whether the property that is the subject ofthe instrument or other
                 document complies with applicable municipal ordinances on land use and
                 development.

     D. The city may bring an action against an owner to require the property to conform to the
        provisions ofthis chapter.
     E. An action under this section may include an injunction, abatement, merger of title, or
        any other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin, or abate the violation.
     F. The city need only establish the violation to obtain the injunction.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-
        2019)

12.10.090 Penalties


It shall be a class C misdemeanor for any person to fail to comply with the provisions of this
title. In addition to any criminal prosecution, the city may pursue any other legal remedy to
ensure compliance with this title.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.10.100 Appeals


     A. Appeals may be made in accordance with section 11.30.040-^ to the designated appeal
        authority as set forth in section 11.30.090-6-9 of this code. Such appeal shall set forth
        in detail the action and grounds upon which the applicant or other person deems himself
        or herself aggrieved.
     B. An aggrieved party may appeal the appeal authority's decision as provided in section
        11.30.090^ ofthis code.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.10.110 Staff Authority


Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this title, all officers and employees of the city act
in an advisory capacity to the designated adininistratisc land use authority and have no authority
to make binding decisions or to make authoritative representations, approvals or determinations
other than in a purely advisory and recommending capacity.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.20.010 Concept Plan


A pre-application meeting with the city's development review committee(DRC)complete with
a concept plan is strongly encouraged for all subdivisions as provided in this title. This provides
the applicant with an opportunity to consult with and receive assistance from the city regarding
the regulations and design requirements applicable to the subdivision of property. The applicant
or applicant's duly authorized and certified agent may schedule this meeting with the community
development department and submit a complete concept plan for review at the meeting.(Ord.
2019-17, 9-25-2019)„

12.20.020 Submission
The applicant shall submit printed and/or digital copies ofthe proposed subdivision concept plan
to the community development department for review at the pre-application meeting. The
proposed concept plan shall be professionally prepared and include the following items:

     A. The proposed name of the subdivision;
     B. A vicinity plan showing significant natural and manmade features or existing structures
        on the site and within two hundred feet (200') of any portion of it; the property
        boundaries of the proposed subdivision; the names of adjacent property owners;
        topographic contours at no greater interval than two feet (2'); and north arrow;
     C. A proposed lot and street layout;
     D.Availability and location of utilities and drainage facilities within the vicinity which are
       adjacent to the property;
     E. A description of those portions of the property which are included in the most recent
        flood insurance rate maps prepared by FEMA;
     F. The total acreage of the entire tract proposed for subdivision; and
     G. County plat map with aerial photo underlay, if available.(Ord. 2019-17,9-25-2019)

12.20.030 Review By City Staff


     A. If an applicant reauesis a pre-application meeting, the citv shall, within Hfteen (15)
         business davs after the request, schedule ihe meetinu to review the concept plan and
         give initial feedback. The city staff shall review the submitted concept plan in a pre-
        application meeting scheduled with the applicant and check compliance with the city's
        general plan, zoning ordinance, this subdivision ordinance, and other appropriate
        regulations. At the pre-application meeting, the citv shall make available copies of all
        applicable land use regulations, a complete list of standards required for the project, preliminary
        and final application checklists. The city staffshall verbally advise the applicant regarding
        the submitted concept plan, specifying any inadequacy in the information submitted,
        noncompliance with city regulations, questionable or undesirable design and/or
        engineering. City staff may also request any additional information which may assist
        them to evaluate the proposed subdivision..
     B. The city staff may request additional Information, data or studies to be provided for the
        overall development before comments regarding the concept plan are provided. Any
        recommendation given by the city staff may include requirements for the overall
        development as part of its findings on the concept plan.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.30.010 Purpose Of The Preliminary Plat


The purpose ofthe preliminary plat is to require formal preliminary approval of a subdivision to
minimize changes and revisions which might otherwise be necessary on the final plat. The
preliminary plat shall in all respects comply with the provisions of this title and all other
applicable provisions of this code.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)
12.30.020 Application And Fees



m~An applicant may file an application for preliminary plat approval with the community
development department on a form prescribed by the city, together with the required number of
drawings sets of the preliminary plat, a PDF copy of drawing sets of the preliminary plat, and
the application fee as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule, all information and
documentation required bv the city's preliminary subdivision application checklist, and an
owner's affidavit. Applicationf)—fer—preliminary—and—final—pkts—may—be—processed
concurrcntlvPreliininarv approval is required before a final plat application mav be submitted.
(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.30.030 Preliminary Plat Submittal


The preliminary plat shall include:

     A. Vicinity Map: A vicinity map drawn at a scale of one thousand feet to the inch (1,000'
        = 1")showing:
             1. All existing and proposed roadways in the vicinity of the development;
             2. A north arrow;

             3. The nearest section corner tie; and

             4. The subdivision name.


     B. Preliminary Plat: A preliminary plat drawn at a scale not larger than one hundred feet to
        the inch (100' = 1") and prepared, stamped and signed by a licensed professional
        surveyor licensed by the state of Utah, showing:
             1. All facilities within one hundred feet(100') of the subdivision boundaries;
             2. A north arrow;

             3. The subdivision name;

             4. The layout and names and widths of existing, proposed, and future road rights-
                 of-way. Transportation infrastructure as indicated on the adopted
                 transportation plan or adopted capital facilities plan shall be included in the
                 development plans of the proposed subdivision;
             5. A tie to a permanent survey monument at a section comer;
             6. The boundary lines of the subdivision with bearings and distances;
             7. The layout and dimensions of proposed lots with lot areas in square feet;
             8. The location, dimensions and labeling of all other spaces including open spaces,
                 parks, trails, and public spaces;
             9. Addresses for each lot and parcel;
             10.Ownership of all adjoining tracts of land; and
        11,The location of manmade features including bridges, railroad tracks, fences or
            walls, and buildings.

C. Grading And Drainage Plan: A grading and drainage plan drawn to a scale not larger
   than forty feet to the inch (40'= 1"), showing:
        1. The road and lot layout;
        2. Topography at two foot(2')contour intervals;
        3. A north arrow;

        4. The subdivision name;

        5. Areas of substantial earthmoving and including in such cases an erosion control
            plan;
        6. The location of existing watercourses, canals, ditches, springs, wells, culverts,
            and storm drains;
        7. The location ofany five hundred (500) year floodplain, one hundred (100) year
            floodplain, and floodway as designated by the federal emergency management
            agency(FEMA);
        8. Any existing wetland;
        9. All drainage facilities, including water flow directions, ditches, swales, gutter
            flow capacities, inlets, outlets, catch basins, pipes, culverts, outlets to off-site
            facilities, storm water control facilities, control structures, and orifice plates
            planned to accommodate,convey, and control the project's storm drainage and
            detention storage for the storm events defined in city of Bluffdale storm water
            design standards manual, and which also comply with the adopted standards
            and specifications; and
        10.The location and dimensions ofall existing and proposed easements and entities
            to which they are granted.

D.Utility Plan: A utility plan drawn to a scale not larger than forty feet to the inch (40'=
   1"), showing:
        1. The road and lot layout;
        2. A north arrow;
        3. The subdivision name; and
        4. All existing and proposed utilities, including sewer, culinary water, secondary
            water,fire hydrants,storm drains,subsurface drains, gas lines, power lines, and
            streetlights.

E. Phasing Plan: When a subdivision is proposed to be developed in phases, the applicant
   shall identify the location of all proposed phases along with a proposed time line for the
    construction of proposed public improvements.
    F. Geotechnical Investigation: The required number of printed and/or digital copies of a
       soils report.
    G. Storm Drainage Report: The required number of printed and/or digital copies of report
       that complies with the city of Bluffdale storm water design standards manual.
    H.Traffic Study: A traffic impact analysis as required by the city engineer.
     I. Title Report: A preliminary title report dated within thirty (30)calendar days of
         application submittal.
     J. Storm Drainage Agreements: Any agreements required for the legal discharge and
       conveyance of storm water drainage.
    K. Evidence Of Compliance: Evidence of compliance with all applicable federal, state,
       and local laws and regulations if requested by the development review committee.
    L.Digital Drawing Copies: Electronic copies of preliminary plat drawings in AutoCAD
       (DWG),Shapefile(SHP)format, and pdf format.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.30.040 Review And Approval


    A. Completeness Determination: Upon receipt of a preliminary subdivision application,
       the planning department and enaineeriniz department shall each designate one
       individual to determine whether the application is complete. The citv shall notify the
       applicant of the determination in writina.


    A?B.    Review:            later than fifteen (15) business davs after receipt of a complete
       application for preliminary plat approval, city staff shall review the application for
       compliance with adopted standards and ordinances.
    BtC.      Recommendation And Approval: The administrative land use authority as set
       forth in section I I 3 91 1.30.090 ofthe land use ordinance shall review the preliminary
       plat submittal and determine compliance with the standards and criteria set forth in this
       chapter and all other ordinances this code, including the land use ordinances, general
       plan, transportation plan, and city standard specifications and design criteria. Notice of
       tht?-an\ public meeting(s) and'or houring(s) shall be given in accordance with section
        1 I/.30.060I I 3 6 of this code. Upon receiving a recommendation, the adminisiraiive
       land use authority may approve, approve with conditions or, if the application does not
       comply with regulations, terminate processing the application until it complies with
       adopted standards and ordinances. The adminisiraiive land use authority shall make
       findings on the record specifying any inadequacy in the application and noncompliance
       with city regulations in the event of termination.
    GtD. Limitation Of Approval: Granting of preliminary plat approval shall mav not
       constitute a final acceptance of the subdivision by the city. Approval ofthe preliminary
       plat shall mav not relieve the applicant ofthe responsibility to comply with all required
       conditions and ordinances, and to provide the improvements and easements necessary
       to meet all city standards and requirements.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)
12.40.010 Final Plat; Purpose


The purpose of the final plat is to require formal approval by the city before a subdivision plat
is recorded in the office of the county recorder.(Ord. 2019-17,9-25-2019)

12.40.020 Application And Fees


Following approval of the preliminary plat (if not submitted concurrently) the final plat, along
with the required number of sets of required information shall be submitted at the time of final
plat application and shall conform in all respects to those requirements specified in this title. The
applicant shall file an application for final plat approval with the community development
department on a form prescribed by the city, together with the required number of copies of the
proposed final plat drawings, and all information and documentation required bv the city's final
subdivision application checklist.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.40.030 Final Plat; Preparation And Required Information

All required materials, including applicable fees paid pursuant to the adopted consolidated fee
schedule, musi shall be submitted before review of a final plat may commence.

     A. The final plat shall show the subdivision name in a title heading and the general location
        of the subdivision in bold letters at the top of the sheet.
     B. The plat shall contain a north arrow and scale no larger than one hundred feet to the
         inch (100'
        = 1")of the drawing. The month and year shall be indicated under the title heading and
        location designation at the top of the plat.
     C. An accurate and complete survey to second order accuracy shall be made of the land
        being subdivided. A traverse of the exterior boundaries of the tract and of each block
        when computed from field measurements on the ground shall close within a tolerance
        of one foot(T)to twenty thousand feet(20,000').
     D.Plats shall include accurately drawn boundaries showing the bearings and dimensions
        of all boundary lines of the subdivision tied to public survey monuments.
     E. The final plat shall show all survey and mathematical information necessary to locate
        all monuments and to locate and retrace all interior and exterior boundary lines
        appearing thereon, including bearing and distance of straight lines, central angle, radius
        and arc length of curves with associated chord bearing and distance, and such
        information as may be necessary to determine the location of beginning and ending
        points of curves. All property comers and monuments shall show the calculated county
         coordinates.

     F. All lots, blocks, and parcels offered for dedication for any purpose shall be designated
        with dimensions, boundaries and courses clearly shown. The square footage of each lot
        shall be shown. Parcels being dedicated, including streets and easements, shall be
        clearly designated on the plat. Sufficient linear, angular and curved data shall be shown
        to determine readily the bearing and length ofthe boundary lines ofevery block, lot and
        parcel which is a part thereof.
G.The plat shall show the right-of-way lines of each street, the width of any portion being
  dedicated, and widths ofany existing dedications. The widths and locations ofadjacent
  streets and other public properties within fifty feet (50') of the subdivision shall be
   shown with dotted lines. If any street in the subdivision is a continuation or an
   approximate continuation of an existing street, the conformity or the amount of
   nonconformity ofsuch existing streets shall be accurately shown.Proposed street names
   shall be provided on the plat for review. Names cannot be duplicated within the county
   and must be approved by Salt Lake county and the city of Bluffdale. Streets which are
   a continuation of existing streets shall carry the same name.
H.The plat shall show the location and dimension of any existing or proposed easements,
   rights of way, or other encumbrances.
 I.The plat shall specify the owner and entity in charge ofmaintaining all public and private
   infrastructure.

J. Construction Plans: All plan shall adhere to city standards, specification, and manuals.
   Plans shall include, but are not limited to, the following sheets: plat, demolition, site
   plan, grading and drainage, utility, signage and striping, and details. The following
   features, at a minimum,shall be shown on the construction plans:
        1. Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along centerlines ofall roads,
            along with typical cross sections. Where a proposed road intersects an existing
            road or roads, the elevation along the centerline of the existing road or roads
            within one hundred feet(100')ofthe intersection shall be shown. Approximate
            radii of all curves, lengths oftangents and central angles on all streets.
                a. Plans and profiles showing the locations of curb and gutter, sidewalks,
                    drainage easements, irrigation ditches, rights-of-way, manholes and
                    catch basins, street trees, streetlights and signs, the location, size and
                    invert elevations of existing and proposed sanitary sewers and
                    stormwater drains, fire hydrants, connections to any existing or
                    proposed utility systems, and exact location and size of all water, gas
                    or other underground utilities or structures. All street monuments shall
                    be indicated on the construction plans.
                b. Underground Location: Utility facilities including power, gas,
                    telephone and cable, shall be located underground in new subdivisions
                    when underground location does not violate safety standards of the
                    particular utility, and underground location does not impose additional
                    maintenance burden on city streets and water/sewer personnel.
                    Underground service connections for water and sewer shall be
                    installed to the street property line of each platted lot at the expense of
                    the applicant and shall be marked on the surface, as shall casings or
                    conduits for all other underground utilities in accordance with adopted
                     standards.


        2. Location, size, elevation and other appropriate description of any existing
            facilities or utilities, including, but not limited to, existing streets, sewers,
            drains, water mains, easements, water bodies, streams, swamps, wetlands.
           buildings, features noted on the official zone map, point of connection to
           proposed facilities and utilities within the subdivision, and each tree or group
           of trees to be preserved. The water elevations of adjoining lakes or streams at
           the date of the survey, and the approximate high and low water elevations of
           such lakes or streams. All elevations shall refer to the NAVD 88. The horizontal
           datum shall be to the state plane Utah central zone, NAD 83, in U.S. feet, and
           tied to a county section comer used as a basis of bearing. If the subdivision
           borders a lake, river or stream, the distances and bearings of a meander line
           established not less than twenty feet (20') back from the ordinary high water
            mark ofsuch waterways.
        3. Topography at the same scale as the preliminary plat with contour intervals at
            two feet (2'), referred to sea level datum. All datum provided shall be the latest
            applicable U.S. geodetic survey datum and should be so noted on the plat.
        4. All other specifications, details and references required by adopted design
            guidelines and standard specifications,constmction specifications and standard
            drawings, including a site grading plan for the entire subdivision.
        5. Title, name,contact information,signature and seal ofthe professional engineer
            preparing the plans, and date, including revision dates.
        6. A limits of disturbance, revegetation, and erosion control plan.
        7. Signing and striping plan.

K. Lots shall be numbered consecutively under a definite system. Numbering shall
   continue throughout the subdivision with no omissions or duplications. Each lot shall
   show the street addresses assigned thereto according to the standard addressing methods
   approved by the -city. In the case of comer lots, an address will be assigned for each
   street frontage.
L.Streets shall be numbered in accordance with and in conformity with the street
   numbering system adopted by the city. Named streets shall also be numbered.
M.The side lines of all easements shall be shown by fine dashed lines. The width of all
  easements and bearing,distances,dimension,ties or other depictions to definitely locate
  the same on the ground shall be shown. All easements shall be clearly labeled and
   identified.

N.The plat shall show all stakes, monuments and other evidence indicating the boundaries
  ofthe subdivision as found on the site. Any monument or bench mark that is disturbed
  or destroyed before acceptance of all improvements shall be replaced by the applicant
  under the direction of the city engineer. The following monuments shall be shown on
  the final plat:
        1. The location of all monuments placed in making the survey, including a
            statement as to what, if any, points were reset by ties; and
        2. All right-of-way monuments to be set or otherwise installed at angle points and
            intersections as approved by the city engineer.
    O.The final plat shall contain the name, stamp and signature of the licensed professional
      surveyor who prepared the plat, together with the date of the survey, the scale of the
      map and number of sheets. The following certificates, acknowledgments and
      descriptions shall appear on the title sheet ofthe final plat, and such certificates may be
       combined where appropriate:
            1. A registered land surveyor's "certificate of survey;"
            2. An    owner's    dedication    certificate   with   appropriate    notary    public
                acknowledgments;
            3. A correct metes and bounds description of all property included within the
                subdivision;

            4. The signatures of the water provider, sewer provider, natural gas provider,
                electric power provider, local telephone service provider, Utah county and/or
                Salt Lake county health department, and blocks for signatures of the city
                engineer, city attorney, the designated administraiive land use authority and an
                attestation by the city recorder, and a signature block for the county recorder in
                the lower right comer of the final plat; and
            5. Such other affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments,endorsements and notarial
                seals as are required by law, this title, or by the city attomey.

    P. Prior to recordation of the plat, the applicant shall submit a title report prepared and
       dated not more than thirty (30) calendar days before the proposed recordation of the
       final plat, to be reviewed by the city attorney.
    Q. When a subdivision contains lands which are reserved in private ownership for
       community use, including common areas, the applicant shall submit with the final
       plat the name, proposed articles of incorporation and bylaws of the owner, or
       organization empowered to own, maintain and pay taxes on such lands and common
       areas and any access easements.
    R.The applicant shall submit a street tree plan in accordance with chapter 7.40-4.
    S. If the proposed subdivision is located within one thousand feet (1,000') of a vested
        critical infrastructure materials operation as set forth in Utah Code § I0-9a-9 the
       following note shall be included on the final plat:
       Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations ■ This property is located in the
       vicinity of an established vested critical infrastructure materials operations in which
       critical infrastructure materials operations have been afforded the highest priority use
       status. It can be anticipated that such operations may now or in the future be conducted
       on property included in the critical infrastructure materials protection area. The use and
       enjoyment of this property is expressly conditioned on acceptance of any annoyance or
       inconvenience that may result from such normal critical infrastructure materials
       operations.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.40.040 Review By City Staff


    A. No later than twenty (20) business davs of receipt of a complete final subdivision plat
       application. ^Fhe-the city staff shall review the final plat and construction drawings
       conformance to adopted standards and ordinances and provide a written response to the
       applicant. Ifthe final plat complies, the staff shall forward the plat to the administrative
       land use authority as designated in section 11.30.090-^-9 of this code. If the plat does
       not comply, the city staff shall return the plat to the applicant with comments for the
       applicant's revision with an index of requested moditlcations or additions including
       citations to the ordinances, standards, and specifications on which the requested
       modifications or additions are based.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

    B. The city may not require more than four (4) review cvcles on a complete final
       subdivision plat application. A review cvcle means the occurrence of:
            1. The applicant's submittal of a complete subdivision land use application:
            2. The city's review of that application:
            3. The city's formal written response from the ^tfectordesiunated reviewers after
                review bv the city staff and all required entities: and
            4. The applicant's reply to the citv's response that addresses each of the city's
                required modifications or requests for additional information.
    C. Am cCommunicalion between the applicant and the citv staff other than the
        Dircctorformal and complete review responses from the designated reviewers may not
       be deemed a response or reply for purposes of review cvcles. Anv response from an
       applicant that does not address each of the citv's required modifications or requests for
       additional information in a comprehensive and specific manner, including citations to
       applicable standards and ordinances and including an index of responses, or does not
        brinu the application into compliance with citv ordinances may not be deemed a
       response for purposes of review cycles.

    D. The citv shall respond to an applicant's revised plan within twenty (20) business davs
        unless the applicant's revised plan was submitted more than twenty (20) business days
       after the citv's written response.

    AtE.     The timeframes identified in subsection A and D above, and the limit identified in
       subsection B above, do not apply to subdivision applications for multifamilv.
       commercial, or industrial uses, or any subdivision affecting propertv within identified
        ueolouical hazard areas.

120.40.050 Annroval Bv Administrative Land Use Authority

    A. The administrative land use authority shall ma\ not be bound by the recommendations
       of the city staff and may set its own conditions and requirements consistent with this
       title. If the administrative land use authority determines that the final plat is in
       conformity with the requirements of this title, adopted standards, other applicable
       ordinances, and any reasonable conditions as recommended by the city staff, it may
       approve the final plat. If the administrative land use authority determines that the final
       plat is not in conformity with this title, adopted standards, other applicable ordinances
       or any reasonable conditions imposed, the administrative land use authority may
       terminate processing the application until it complies with adopted standards and
       ordinances. The administrative land use authority shall make findings on the record
       specifying any inadequacy in the application and noncompliance with city regulations
       in the event of termination.

    B. Minor Subdivisions: A "minor" subdivision shall be defined as a subdivision of ten (10)
       or fewer lots from a parcel or a phase of lots which have received prior approval in the
       form of an approved site plan, project plan, development agreement or similar
       instrument.

            1. Applications for a minor subdivision shall include the materials set forth in this
                chapter and shall be reviewed for compliance with adopted standards and
                ordinances by the city's development review committee(DRC).
            2. Following the review and recommendation of the DRC the application shall be
                forwarded to the adminisiraiixc land use authority as set forth in section
                1 1 .30.090 M j 9 of this code for their decision. The administrative land use
                authority may, after review of the plan and comment from other departments
                and agencies, direct the applicant to follow the standard approval process
                required for subdivisions,as described in this title. The administraiise land use
                authority may take the following into account when determining whether the
                application will be required to follow the standard approval process:
                     a. The size and phasing of the proposed development: and
                     b. Compliance with adopted city ordinances, standards and master plans,
                         and development agreements (if applicable); twd
                Tho contro\orsial natiiro of the proposal.

    C. Appeal: The applicant may appeal the decision of the adininisiratisc land use authority
       in accordance with section 11.30.040-^ ofthis code to the designated appeal authority
       as set forth in section 11^3-9.30.090-of this code.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)


12.40.060 Recording Of Final Plat


    A. After receiving approval from the designated adminisiraiiw land use authority and all
       required signatures on the mylar have been completed, the final plat shall be presented
       by the city recorder to the county recorder for recordation, provided improvements have
       been completed and accepted or an improvement guarantee agreement has been
       executed.

    B. Acceptance Of Dedication Offers: Acceptance offormal offers ofdedications of streets,
       public areas, easements and parks shall be by ordinance ofthe city council when a final
       plat is not prepared.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.50.010 General Provisions


    A. Minor Subdivisions: A "minor" subdivision shall be defined as a subdivision often (10)
       or fewer lots from a parcel or a subdivision of any number of lots from a parcel within
       a phase of an approved project plan.
            1. Commei-cial. industrial, and miiltifamilv subdivisions and condominium plats
               are considered additional t\ pes of minor subdivisions for review and approval
                purposes.

    B. Applications for a minor subdivision shall include the materials set forth in this chapter
       for both preliminary and llnal plat processes and shall be reviewed for compliance with
       adopted standards and ordinances by the city's development review committee(DRC).
    C. Following the review and recommendation of the DRC the application shall be
       forwarded to the administrative land use authority as set forth in section 1 1 3
       ^1!.30.090 of this code for a final decision. The land use authority shall consider the

       in accordance with section M 3 6 of" this code. The administrative land use authority
       may, after review ofthe plan and commentfrom other departments and agencies, direct
       the applicant to follow the standard approval process required for subdivisions, as
       described in this title. The administrative land use authority may take the following into
       account when determining whether the application will be required to follow the
       standard approval process:
            1. The size and phasing ofthe proposed development;
            2. Compliance with adopted city ordinances, standards and master plans.; and
            3. The controvorGial nature of the proposal.

    D.Appeal: The applicant may appeal the decision of the administrative land use authority
      in accordance with section 11.30.040-3-4 ofthis code to the designated appeal authority
      as set forth in section 11.30.090-3-0 of this code.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.60.010 Petition For Amendment


    A. Property Owner: Any fee owner of property lying within a recorded subdivision plat
        may petition the city requesting to vacate, alter or amend the subdivision plat. The
       petition shall include:
            1. The name and address of all owners of record ofthe land contained in the entire
                plat;
            2. The name and address of all affected entities;
            3. The signature of each of the owners identified in subsections A1 and A2 of this
                section who consent to the petition; and
            4. The fee as set forth in the city consolidated fee schedule.

    B. City: The city on its own initiative may consider the vacation, alteration or amendment
       of a subdivision plat. The procedure for such consideration shall be as set out in this
       chapter.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)
12.60.020 Plat Amendment Procedure


     A. Recommendation: Upon receipt of a petition to vacate, alter, or amend a subdivision
        plat, the matter shall be referred to the adminisirati\ c land use authority as designated in
        section 11.30.090-^-9 of this code for consideration.

     B. Public Meeting: The administrati\c land use authority shall hold a public meeting
        wherein the application is reviewed and a decision is issued. Notice of the public
        meeting shall be given as provided in section 11.30.060-^ of this code.
    C. Vacating A Public Street, Right-Of-Way Or Easement: A petition under this section that
       proposes to vacate some or all of a public street, right-of-way or easement shall comply
        with state code.

    D. Notice: Notice shall be given in accordance with section 11.30.060-^ of this code.
      (Ord. 2019-17, 9- 25-2019)

12.60.030 Amended Plat Requirements


Prior to the adniinisiraiivc land use authority's approval of a petition or proposal to amend a
subdivision plat, the petitioner or sponsor shall deliver to the city an amended plat map and
supporting information in compliance with the requirements of section 12 1 3 12.40.030 of this
title. The amended plat map shall be accompanied by the appropriate recording fee to provide
for recordation of the map with the county recorder.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.60.040 Lot Line Adjustments; Joining -Lots;-Parcel -Boundary -Adjustments;-Boundary
Line Agreements


     A. Lot Line Adjustments: Consenting owners of adjoining properties in u liubdiv iiiion may
        relocate the mutual property boundary line between their adjoining lots pursuant to this
        section. -Lot line adjiistments within recorded siibdi\isions mav be required to be
         processed as a plat amendment.
             1. The designated administrative land use authority for lot line adjustments is set
                 forth in section 1 1 3 911.30.090 ofthis code.

             2. Applications shall:
                      a. Be filed jointly by the owners of both subject properties.
                      b. Include the legal description of each original property.
                      c. Include the proposed adjusted legal description of each property as
                          proposed. Legal descriptions shall be prepared by a certified surveyor
                          or engineer licensed in the state of Utah.

             3. The administrative land use authority shall approve and provide a notice of
                 approval to the applicants for applications that comply with the following
                 requirements:
                      a. No new dwelling or lot or housing unit will result from the adjustment.
                      b. The properties as proposed comply with all adopted standards and
                         ordinances.


            4. The property owners that are a party to the application shall record with the Salt
                Lake county recorder's office the notice of approval and a valid document of
                conveyance that results in the property boundaries described by the legal
                descriptions submitted with the lot line adjustment application.

    B. Joining Lots: A fee owner may join two (2) or more of the petitioner fee owner's
       contiguous lots as long as the joined lots comply with this code. The administrative land
        use authority forjoining lots shall be set forth in section 1 ! 3 ^^1 1.30.090 of this code.
     C.Parcel Boundary Adjustments And Boundary Line Agreements: A parcel boundary
       adjustment or boundary line agreement subject to Utah Code §§ 10-9a-523 and 10-9a-
       524, as amended, fihall mav not require review by the city.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.70.010 ApDroval Process


Applications to create a condominium plat shall follow the application and approval process as
set forth in chapter 12.60-6: Plat Amendments,in accordance with the standards and regulations
herein and as prescribed in state law.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.80.010 Subdivision Layout


The subdivision layout shall conform to the city's standards and ordinances.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-
25-2019)

12.80.020 Lots


     A. Developable Lots: All subdivisions should result in the creation of lots which are
        developable and capable of being built upon. A subdivision shal l mav not create lots
        which would make improvement impractical due to size, shape, steepness of terrain,
        location of watercourses, problems of sewerage, driveway grades, or other physical
        conditions.

    B. Frontage: All lots or parcels created by the subdivision shall have frontage on a street,
       improved to standards hereinafter required. This standard shall mav not apply to
       commercial development given adequate cross access is provided between any and all
        affected developments and/or properties. Land designated as right-of-way shall be
       separate and distinct from lots adjoining such right-of-way and not be included in the
        area ofsuch lots.

     C. Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots shall be avoided except where necessary to
        provide separation of residential development from traffic arterials or to overcome
        specific disadvantages of topography and orientation. The street frontage adjacent to
        the rear of any approved double frontage lots shall be improved by the applicant in
        accordance with the standards set forth in the city's subdivision standards. Unless
        specifically approved by the city engineer, no double frontage lot shati-mav have
        vehicular access from the street frontage adjacent to the rear ofthe lot.
    D.Minimum Area, Dimensions: The minimum area and dimensions of all lots shall
       conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance for the district in which the
        subdivision is located.

    E. Side Lines: The side lines of all lots, so far as possible, shall be at right angles to the
       street which the lot faces, or approximately radial to the center of curves, if such street
       is curved. Side lines of lots shall be approximately radial to the center of a cul-de-sac
       on which the lots face.

     F. Lot Divisions: A lot shati-mav not be divided by a city limit line or county boundary
        line.

    G.Remnants: Remnants of property shall mav not be left in the subdivision which do not
      conform to lot requirements or are not required or suitable for common open space,
      private utility or public purpose.
    H.Parcels Included In Plat: All portions of all parcels from which a subdivision is created
       shall be included within the subdivision plat.
     I. Building Envelopes: Building envelopes shall be required to be shown on all final plats
        designating the buildable area on each lot. Building envelopes shall take into account
         minimum setback requirements, utility and access easements, physical constraints, such
        as steep slopes, waterways, wetlands, faults, and any other features deemed significant
        by the designated administratisc land use authority. The accurate identification of the
        building envelope in the field is the responsibility of the developer. A certificate of
        survey, prepared by a registered land surveyor, licensed in the state of Utah, may be
        required. All existing and new structures in a subdivision are required to satisfy the lot
        area, setback and frontage requirements of the zone in which they are located.
     J. Access: Lots shrdlmav- not, in general, derive access exclusively from an arterial or
        collector street. Where driveway access from an arterial or collector street may be
         necessary for several adjoining lots, the city may require that such lots be served by a
        combined access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazard on the arterial or collector
        streets. Where possible, driveways shall be designed and arranged to avoid requiring
         vehicles to back into traffic on arterial or collector streets.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.80.030 Streets


    A. Location: Streets shall be located within a subdivision so they connect with existing
       streets. If the adjoining land is zoned for residential use, streets shall be located so that
       the adjacent land may be most efficiently subdivided. Development on pre-existing
       private rights-of-way is permitted in accordance with BCC 11.160.250. Prior to final
       plat approval, the city shall make the determination as to whether each street is to be
       public or private. Such status shall be shown on the plat.
                I. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out to eliminate or avoid new
                    perimeter half streets. The city engineer may authorize a new perimeter street,
                    however, the applicant shall be required to improve half the width of the right
                    of way plus ten feet (10'), and dedicate the entire required street right of way
            width, if it is in the applicant's control to do so.
        2. Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow road or where the general plan,
            transportation plan, or capita! facilities plan indicates plans for realignment or
            widening a road that would require use of some of the land in the subdivision,
           the applicant may be required to improve and dedicate such areas for widening
            or realignment of such roads that are necessary and for the benefit of the
            subdivision. Frontage roads and streets shall be improved and dedicated at the
            applicant's expense to the full width as required by this title.

B. Cross Section: All streets, whether public or private, shall conform to the cross section
   designated by the city's adopted transportation plan and adopted standards and
   specifications. At present it is the preference of the city for all subdivision streets to be
   dedicated public streets. However, if private streets are approved, they must be
   constructed to meet all requirements of public streets in case the city is required to
   maintain the streets in the future. The land area for streets or right-of-way shall mav not
   be included in or counted toward the minimum area required for a lot.
C. Curbs, Gutters, Sidewalks: Curbs, gutters, and sidewalks shall be installed on existing
   and proposed streets by the applicant in all subdivisions in accordance with adopted
   standards and specifications.
D. Cul-De-Sacs And Dead End Streets: In order to provide adequate emergency access to
   and from the development and proper circulation, two (2) points of ingress and egress
   shall be required in all subdivisions with the following exceptions:
         1. Any subdivision, or portion of a subdivision, which cannot provide two (2)
             points of ingress and egress in a practical manner shall be limited to no more
             than thirty (30) single family residential lots or units or one hundred (ICQ)
             multi-family units; provided, that in no case f^mti-mav the single ingress/egress
             exceed a maximum of one thousand feet (1,000') in length, regardless of the
             number ofdwelling units accessing from it, unless specifically allowed by other
             applicable provisions ofthe city land use ordinances or the adopted building or
             fire codes. This measurement shall begin at the point at which aperson last has
             a choice between at least two (2) public streets or rights-of-way for travel.
        2. A subdivision, or portion of a subdivision, which will be served by more than
           one (1) point of ingress and egress in the future may receive approval for no
           more than thirty(30)single family residential lots or units or one hundred(100)
           multi-family units until a second point of ingress and egress is provided and so
           indicated on the final plat; provided, that in no case r.hall mav the single
           ingress/egress exceed a maximum of three thousand feet (3,000') in length,
           regardless ofthe number ofdwelling units accessing from it, unless specifically
           allowed by other applicable provisions of the city land use ordinances. This
           measurement shall begin at the point at which a person last has a choice
           between at least two (2) public streets or rights of way for travel. The second
           access, when built, shall be constructed in accordance with adopted standards
           and specifications.

E. Bridges: Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant shall be constructed at the full
        expense of the applicant without reimbursement from the city. The sharing of expense
        for the construction of bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant shall be in
        accordance with adopted state law provisions.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)
12.80.040 Drainage


The applicant shall construct and install drainage systems conforming to the city's adopted
standards, specifications, and manuals.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.80.050 Utilities


     A. Underground: All required utilities shall be provided in accordance with adopted
        standards. All underground utilities specified in this section shall be installed prior to
        the installation ofroad base, surfacing, curbs, gutters and sidewalks. The applicant shall
        stub all utility services to outside the city right-of-way unless specified differently by
        adopted standards and specifications. Underground utilities shall mav be installed only
        after streets have been rough graded to a line and grade approved by the city engineer.
    B. Culinary Water: A culinary water supply, which must be approved by the city engineer,
       shall be available to each lot in the subdivision and shall be provided in conformance
        with the standards and rules and regulations of the city. Where an approved culinary
        water supply is available, the city will require to be installed, at the applicant's expense,
        water mains, valves, and service laterals to each lot within the subdivision. Private water
        system shall meet rules and requirements set by state division of drinking water(DDW)
        and provide documentation ofapproval by DDW to the city.
     C. Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed at locations determined by the city
        engineer and the fire chief in accordance with adopted standards and specifications. Fire
         hydrants shall be governed by the requirements of the fire code adopted by the city.
     D.Sanitary Sewer: The applicant shall install sanitary sewer facilities under the direction
       ofand in accordance with the specifications, review and approval ofthe Ssouth Vvalley
        Ssewer I2tlistrict.

    E. Electric Facilities: The applicant shall install electrical facilities under the direction of
       and in accordance with the specifications, review, and approval of the local electrical
        power provider.
     F. Supplementary Utility Facilities (Natural Gas, Telecom, Communications): The
        applicant shall install natural gas facilities, telecommunications, and communications
        facilities under the direction of and in accordance with the specifications, review, and
        approval of local utility providers.
     G. Subsurface Water Drains: Subsurface water drains may be installed at the option ofthe
        applicant. All plans for such subsurface drains proposed by the applicant shall be
        reviewed and approved by the city engineer, or their designee. All such subsurface
        drains shall meet the minimum requirements for design and construction ofsuch drains,
        as specified by the city. The city may, based on the findings and recommendations of a
        soils report and other relevant analysis, require that no basements are constructed in
        certain areas with identified high water tables. If no basements are allowed, a note shall
         be placed on the plat reflecting this requirement.
    H.Streetlights: Streetlights shall be provided in all subdivisions in accordance with adopted
       standards and ordinances.

     I. Utility Easements: Utility easements shall be provided within the subdivision as
        required for public utility purposes. All lots shall include at a minimum a ten foot(10')
       easement aloiiu the from loi line and ma\ he required around the entire perimeter, if
       requii-cd b\ the C'it\ F.u^inccr. Additional easements, or increased width of easements,
       may be required as necessary to provide for adequate utility service and/or drainage
       within the subdivision and adjoining parcels. Where topographical or other conditions
       make it impractical to include utilities within these easements, perpetual unobstructed
       easements at least ten feet (IC) in width shall be provided with satisfactory access to
       the nearest public right-of-way. Whenever possible, Ciiv utilities shall be installed
       within dedicated public rights-of-way or other streets. Dr\ uiiliiies are preferred to be
       installed in public iiiiliix casments where possible. Where city utilities are located
       outside of the public right-of-way a perpetual unobstructed easement at least ten feet
       (10') in width shall be provided with satisfactory access to the nearest public right-of-
       way in the name of the city. All utilities easements shall be indicated on the plat.
    J. Irrigation And Secondary Water: The applicant shall be responsible for dedicating
        adequate secondary water in accordance with section 8.50.030^-^ ofthis code. Unless
        otherwise provided in this code, adequate facilities shall be provided within the
       subdivision for the utilization of secondary water as irrigation. (Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-
       2019)

12.80.060 Landscaping And Trees


    A. Landscaping: A landscaping plan shall be required for all subdivisions within the city
       detailing the landscaping in all public and common areas of the development and any
       other area required to be landscaped as a condition of development approval. All
       landscaping plans shall indicate who will be responsible for landscaping installation
       and how maintenance of the landscaped areas will be performed and by whom. All
       landscape plans and irrigation systems will conform to the city's adopted standards and
       specifications. A landscaping plan for all park strips is required to be submitted with
       the final plat application for all subdivisions. This plan shall indicate the plan for ground
       cover within park strips, and shall also include details on the irrigation system required
       to support the designated ground cover and required street trees. Drip or similar deep
       watering systems shall be indicated where street trees are present within the landscaping
       plan.
    B. Street Trees:

             1. Street Trees Required: All developers ofresidential subdivisions in the city shall
                 provide street trees as part ofthe landscaping plan in order to reduce heat, dust,
                 glare and the need for cooling and heating; to help clean and oxygenate the air;
                 to reduce road noise; to prevent erosion and promote soil health; to mask
                 undesirable views and enhance pleasing views; to develop continuity among
                 developments; and to generally enhance the appearance of the city streets and
                 promote a sense of civic pride and vitality. A street tree plan, which is in
                 accordance with city standards and chapter 7.40-4 of this code, shall be
   submitted with the final plat application for all subdivisions. The applicant and
   homeowner hiwc responsible for ensuring the installation of the required
   number, species, and caliper of street trees, per the approved street tree plan,
   prior to the issuance of a certificate ofoccupancy for any dwelling.
2. Tree ^endGuarantee:

        a. SocLiritv An aureemeni -fer- guaranteeing street tree installation is
            required to be provided with all       divisionbiiildinu permit issuance in
            subdi\ isions where street trees are required. The applicant shall post an
            escrow bond w ilh the city prior to rocording any subdivioion or phaao

            be Got in an amount suFficiont to covor the cost of providing troos for
            the individual lot. but shall mav not be less than three hundred dollars

            development department, and shall mav not be released until a site

            accordance with the procedure outlined below:
        b. Total street tree and park strip landscaping bond amountr. shall be
            calculated by mullipl)ing the number of trees shown on the approved

            additionally adding in an estimated landscaping and irrigation syatoms
            cost. This bond w ould bo posted w ith each subdivision or phase of a
            subdivision prior to the recording of any final plat. During the
            construction and occupancy of homes w ithin a subdivision, applicant
            would have two (2) annual opportunities to reduce or refund a portion
            ol'the bond amount. These reductions of the street tree bond amount
            would be linked to the installation of the street trees as described on
            the street tree planting plan.

3. Street Tree Installation: All residential subdivisions shall have street trees and
   irrigation systems installed within the park strip between the sidewalk and curb.
   In areas where there is no sidewalk or no park strip between the sidewalk and
   curb, street trees shall be installed at adjacent to the right-of-way. Street trees
   shall be installed in accordance with #^e-adopted standards and specifications
   deseloped by the cit\ iree commission and adopted b>' the city council..
   Irrigation systems shall be professionally installed by a licensed contractor, and
   shall include an automatic watering system appropriate to the approved tree and
   park strip planting plan. The developer shall prepare a street tree plan for each
   residential subdivision which shall be reviewed by the community
   development dcpurtmeniDRC. Tree species selection shall vary by street to add
   variation in form, texture, color and general visual effect to the subdivision. A
   diversity of species shall also be provided to minimize the danger of losing an
   entire monospecific planting to blight, insects or some other spocics species-
   specific condition. After installation by the applicant, individual homeowners
   are responsible for the irrigation and maintenance of required park strip street
   trees.
     C. open Space Requirements: Units may be clustered in the most suitable and least
        sensitive portions of the site with common open space corridors separating clusters, in
        accordance with adopted ordinances. Any open space corridors should be designed to
        coincide with significant vegetation and in many cases left natural. Open space areas
        will be the maintenance responsibility of a homeowners' association, unless dedicated
        and accepted by the city. Open space conservation easements dedicated in perpetuity to
        a qualified land trust are encouraged to prevent future development.
     D.Fencing: Each applicant shall be required to furnish and install fences when the city
        determines that a hazardous condition exists. The fences shall be constructed in
        accordance with section I I 16 i l l 1.160.040 ofthe city'ls land use ordinances and shall
        be noted as to height and material on the final plat. Fences located within five feet(5Q
        of a fire hydrant must be approved by the fire chief.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.80.070 Improvements Required


All improvements shall be installed in accordance with the city'ls subdivision standards and
specifications, the adopted capital facilities plan, the adopted transportation plan, the adopted
parks and trails plan, the development agreement between the applicant and the city (if
applicable) and all other applicable city ordinances and regulations.

     A. Costs Of Improvements: All required improvements shall be completed by the
        applicant, at their expense, without reimbursements by the city, and in accordance with
        adopted standards, fee schedules, and ordinances.
     B. Temporary Improvements: The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of temporary
        improvements required by the city, and shall maintain them for the period specified.
        Prior to construction of any temporary facility or improvement, the applicant shall file
        with the city engineer a separate suitable guarantee, in accordance with this title for
        temporary facilities which ensures that the temporary facilities will be properly
         constructed maintained and removed.

     C. Maintenance Of Improvements: The maintenance of all required improvements in the
        subdivision is the applicant's responsibility until accepted by the city.
     D.Fees Paid Prior To Acceptance: AH applicable application, field engineering,
       inspections, and inspection administration fees shall be paid prior to acceptance of the
       subdivision.(Ord. 2019- 17, 9-25-2019)

12.90.010 Assurance For Comptetioii And Maintenance OfImnrovemcnts


     A. Completion Of Improvements: Before the final plat is signed by the city engineer, all
        applicants shall be required to complete any and all improvements required for
        development or provide an improvement completion assurance according to subsection
        B of this section. The applicant shall dedicate all applicable land and public
        improvements to the city, including any water right transfers, conservation easements
        or dedications of public lands to land trusts, free and clear ofall liens and encumbrances
        on the property and public improvements thus dedicated.
B. Improvement Completion Assurance:
        1. The applicant shall post an acceptable improvement completion assurance
           (-licompletion assurance-^) prior to the recording ofthe final plat, in an amount
            estimated by the city engineer sufficient to secure to the city the satisfactory
            construction, installation, dedication of all required landscaping and
            infrastructure improvements. The amount ofthe completion assurance shall be
            in an amount or value equal to one hundred percent(100%) of the estimated
            cost of the required improvements and amenities as determined by the city
            engineer.
        2. The completion assurance shall comply with all statutory requirements and shall
            be satisfactory to the city attorney as to form, sufficiency and manner of
            execution as set forth by the city attorney. The completion assurance shall mav
            not be used to pay any contractual obligations of the applicant.
        3.      a. The completion assurance agreement shall be completed on the city
                   supplied bond agreement form for the full subdivision improvements
                   cost and be in one of the following forms:
                        1. An escrow agreement and deposit account with a federally
                           insured bank or credit union making proceeds available to the
                           city in the case of the developer-^s default upon the city
                           presenting a sight draft at an office located within fifty (50)
                           miles ofthe city.(Three party bond agreement.)
                        2. Cash or a cashier-^s check, for deposit with the city in its bank
                           accounts.(Two party bond agreement.)

                b. The completion assurance shall be approved by the city engineer with
                   surety and conditions satisfactory to protect the public'ls interest and
                   ensure construction ofrequired improvements.
                c. Interest, if any, earned by the city on the deposited sum shall be retained
                   by the city as reimbursement and an offset for the cost of administering
                   the completion assurance.

        4. All required subdivision improvements shall be completed within two(2) years
            of final plat approval. At such time, if the improvements have not been
            completed, the city council may direct the city engineer to complete the
            remaining improvements using the completion assurance.
C. Temporary Improvements: The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of temporary
   improvements required by the city, and shall maintain them for the period specified.
   Prior to construction of any temporary facility or improvement,the developer shall file
    with the city engineer a separate suitable completion assurance, in accordance with this
   title,for temporary facilities, which ensures that the temporary facilities will be properly
   constructed, maintained and removed.
D.Costs Of Improvements: All required improvements shall be completed by the
  applicant, at their expense, without reimbursement by the city or any improvement
       district therein, and in accordance with adopted codes, standards, fee schedules and
       ordinances.

    E. Acceptance Of Dedication Offers: Acceptance offormal offers ofdedications ofstreets,
       public areas, easements and parks shall be by ordinance of the city council when a final
       plat is not prepared.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.90.020 Commencement Of Excavation And Installation OfImprovements


    A. Final Plat Approved And Recorded: Prior to commencement of the construction of any
       subdivision improvements, the final plat ofthe subdivision shall have received approval
       from the city council, and the applicant shall have provided assurance for completion
        and maintenance of improvements, in accordance with section 12.90.010-9-1- of this
        chapter. The final plat shall be recorded in the office of the county recorder.
    B. Commencement Of Construction: Once the requirements listed above have been
       satisfied, iThe aPDlicant shall request in writing and have attended a nreconstruction
       meeting with the citv engineer. .-M'lcr iho required preconsiruction mociinii. the city
       engineer shall authorize construction to commence with a written notice to proceed.
       The applicant ohall request in v/riting and have attended a prcconotruction meeting v>'ith
       the city onginocr. The applicant shall mav be allowed only to clear and grub and perform
       preliminary grading with a valid land disturbance permit issued by the city engineer
       prior to plat approval, in accordance with city ordinances, prior to getting all required
       permits and pre-construction conference. Commencement of excavation and
       installation of subdivision improvements prior to completing the requirements of this
       section before authorized to do so may cause appropriate legal action and enforcement
       remedies by the city.
    C. Weather Passable Access; Fire Protection: No construction shall mav be allowed to
       begin until an all weather passable access in accordance with city standards and as
       approved by the fire chief and city engineer has been completed. No combustible
       construction shall mav be allowed to begin until fire protection in the form of water
       lines and fire hydrants is complete and accepted by the city.
    D.Infrastructure Placed Prior To Occupancy Certificate: No certificate of occupancy,
       either temporary or final, shall mav be granted until the required safety infrastructure
       has been placed in a subdivision and approved by the appropriate service providers, and
       the access to the structure has been completed, inspected and approved.(Ord. 2019-17,
       9-25-2019)

12.90.030 Inspection Of Improvements And Release OfImprovement Completion
Assurance


    A. General Procedure And Fees: The city engineer or designee shall inspect the required
       improvements and amenities during construction and ensure their satisfactory
       completion. The applicant shall, in accordance with the city fee schedule, pay to the city
       inspection fees. These fees shall be due and payable upon demand of the city.
       Completion assurance and/or improvement warranty monies may not be released until
   all outstanding inspection fees are -paid. If the city engineer finds, upon inspection, that
   any of the required improvements have not been constructed in accordance with the
   adopted design guidelines and standard specifications and plans, the applicant shall be
   responsible for completing the improvements. The city shall use any and/or all
   completion assurance monies to complete any improvements that are not according
   to design guidelines and standard specifications and have not been rectified by the
   applicant.
B. Reduction Of Improvement Completion Assurance: At the written request of the
   applicant, the city engineer shall reduce the completion assurance after the city has
   inspected and accepted any portion of the landscaping or infrastructure improvements
   that have been built by the amount relative to the completed work up to seventy five
   percent(75%)of the total cost of all improvements.
C. Acceptance OfPublic Improvements: The applicant, upon completion of a portion or all
   of the improvements shall request in writing that the city perform a final inspection to
   verify that the construction of the improvements meets all city requirements. The city
   engineer shall inform the city council of the acceptance of the improvements when all
   items, and punch list items, if any, are completed.
D.Release OfImprovement Completion Assurance: Subject to the maintenance provisions
  contained in this title, the city wtti-mav not accept dedication of required improvements
  or amenities, or release a completion assurance, until the city engineer has verified that
  all required improvements and amenities have been satisfactorily completed and until
  the applicant's engineer or surveyor has certified to the city engineer, through
  submission of detailed "as-built" drawings of the subdivision indicating location,
  dimensions, materials, improvements and other information required by the city
  engineer, that the layout of the line and grade of all public improvements is in
  accordance with the approved construction plans for the subdivision. The "as-built"
   plans must comply with subsection D,"As-Built Drawings", of this section. Any or all
  remaining portion of the completion assurance will be released after the city has
  ascertained that "as-built" plans have been submitted in accordance with section D.
   Further, a title insurance policy shall be furnished to the city attorney and city engineer
  indicating that the improvements have been completed, are ready for dedication to the
   local government, and are free and clear of any and all liens and encumbrances. Upon
  such approval and recommendation, the city manager shall thereafter accept the
  improvements for dedication in accordance with the established policy and procedure.
E. As-Built Drawings:
        1. "As-builts" shall be submitted electronically. Electronic files shall include one
           (1) AutoCAD drawing compatible with AutoCAD version 2004 or newer.
            SHAPE files shall include separate SHAPE files for each utility, including
            drinking water, secondary water, storm drain, sewer, roads and parks that are
            compatible with the latest version of ArcView. AutoCAD drawings and
            SHAPE files shall be in State Plane Coordinates (Utah Central Zone - NAD
            1983). Survey points of as-builts need to also be included in the AutoCAD
            drawing. A PDF of the final "Record Drawing" also needs to be included. All
            rim and invert elevations need to be shown on this drawing, as well as all pipe
            types and sizes.
             2. "As-built" drawings shall be based on survey information provided by the
                 developer's engineer or surveyor. The SHAPE files shall include detailed
                 information based upon survey points for:
                     a. Fire hydrants;
                     b. Water lines(size and type);
                     c. Water valves;
                     d. Water meter boxes;
                     e. Pressurized irrigation lines(size and type);
                     f. PI valves;
                     g. Pump house comers;
                     h. Water blowoffs/drain structures;
                     i. Air release stmctures;

                     j. Pipe comers;
                     k. Roadway centerline;
                     1. Stmcture centerline;
                     m.Storm drain lines (size and type);
                     n. Storm drain manholes(rim and fl elevations);
                     o. Storm drain inlets(rim and fl elevations) with any permanent BMPs
                        (flex-storm, dandi bags, and the like) identified;
                     p. Storm drain detention/retention structures;
                     q. Sewer lines (size and type);
                     r. Sewer manholes(rim and fl elevations);
                     s. Sewer stmctures;

                     t. Park boundaries; and

                     u. Recreational facilities general locations.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)



12.90,040 Escrow Deposits For Lot Improvements


Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy Limited: When, by reason of the season of the year, any
lot improvements required by the subdivision regulations cannot be performed due to valid
weather related delays, the city council may, nevertheless, approve the issuance of temporary
certificates of occupancy, provided there is no danger to health, safety or general welfare, all
streets have been paved, and all fire safety provisions are in place. Any deferred improvements
shall post a cash escrow deposit in an amount determined by the city engineer for the cost of
improvements, and shall be installed within six (6) months from the date of city council
approval. The completion assurance covering such lot improvements shall remain in full force
and effect.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.90.050 Maintenance OfImprovements


    A. Prior To Completion: The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements and
        amenities on the individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on streets and
       sidewalks until acceptance ofthe improvements and amenities by the city.
    B. Warranty After Acceptance And Dedication: The applicant shall be required to file an
       improvement warranty with the city with the original completion assurance, in an
       amount equal to ten percent (10%) of the estimated construction cost and in a form
       satisfactory to the city attorney, in order to assure the satisfactory condition of the
       required improvements and amenities, including all lot improvements on the individual
       subdivided lots for a period ofone(1)year after the date oftheir acceptance by the city
       manager and city engineer and dedication to the city.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)
11.30.060 Notice Requirements And Public Hearings

   1. Procedure: All notice requirements and public hearing notice requirements shall
      satisfy State law and City ordinances or resolutions. The public notice shall contain
      ample information to allow the general public to determine what action is being
      proposed,a short description of the proposal,the time,date and location of the public
      hearing, the type of input being requested by the City, and where additional
      information, if any, may be obtained. Applications are and shall be noticed in the
      following manner:

 Land Use Decision            Time                               Notice Type
 Preparation, adoption or     A. Upon inception of the initial   (1) Notice of the date, time,
 amendments of the General    process to generally plan or       and place of the first public
 Plan or General Plan Map     the process for any General        hearing to consider the
                               Plan amendment                    original adoption or any
                                                                  modification of all or any
                                                                  portion of a General Plan; and
                                                                 notice of each public meeting
                              B. 10 calendar days prior to       on the subject.
                              first public hearing

                                                                 (2) Notice of a public hearing
                                                                 must be published in a
                               C. 24-hour notice of each         newspaper of general
                               public meeting                    circulation in the area; and
                                                                 published on the Utah public
                                                                 notice website; mailed to each
                                                                 affected entity; and posted in
                                                                 at least 3 public locations
                                                                 within the Municipality; or on
                                                                 the Municipality's official
                                                                 website.



                                                                 (3) Notice of a public meeting
                                                                 must be published in a
                                                                 newspaper of general
                                                                 circulation in the area; and
                                                                 published on the Utah public
                                                                 notice website; mailed to each
                                                                 affected entity; and posted in
                                                                 at least 3 public locations
                                                                 within the Municipality; or on
                                                            the Municipality's official
                                                            website.




                                                            (4)In the case of an
                                                            amendment to the General
                                                            Plan map,an additional notice
                                                            shall be mailed to all record
                                                            owners of property within
                                                            1,000 feet of the parcel(s)or
                                                            property(ies) being considered
                                                            for amendment.
       Adoption or           A. 10 calendar days prior to   (1) Mailed to each affected
amendments of the land use   first public hearing           entity at least 10 calendar
ordinances or Zoning Map                                    days before the public
(rezone)                                                    hearing; posted in at least 3
                                                            public locations within the
                             B. Additional notice           Municipality; or on the
                                                            Municipality's official website;
                                                            and published in a newspaper
                                                            of general circulation in the
                             C. Public meeting              area at least 10 calendar days
                                                            before the public hearing; and
                                                            published on the Utah public
                                                            notice website, at least 10
                                                            calendar days before the
                                                            public hearing; or mailed at
                                                            least 10 calendar days before
                                                            the public hearing to each
                                                            property owner whose land is
                                                            directly affected by the land
                                                            use ordinance change; and
                                                            each adjacent and nearby
                                                            property owner within 1,000
                                                            feet.


                                                            (2) For zoning map or map
                                                            amendment: additional notice
                                                            to each owner of private real
                                                            property whose property is
                                                            located entirely or partially
                                                            within the proposed map.
                                                            Must state that owner has 10
                                                            calendar days after 1st public
                                                            hearing to file a written
                                                            objection to the legislative
                                                            body.
                                                             (3) Notice of a public meeting
                                                             must be published in a
                                                             newspaper of general
                                                             circulation in the area; and
                                                             published on the Utah public
                                                             notice website; mailed to each
                                                             affected entity; and posted in
                                                             at least 3 public locations
                                                             within the Municipality; or on
                                                             the Municipality's official
                                                             website
Annexation policy plan                                       (1)Provide notice of the public
                              A. 14 calendar days prior to   meeting to each affected
                              first public meeting           entity at least 14 calendar
                                                             days before the meeting;
                                                             accept and consider any
                                                             additional written comments
                              B. 14 calendar days prior to   from affected entities until 10
                              first public hearing           calendar days after the public
                                                             meeting.

                                                             (2)Provide reasonable public
                              C. Within 30 calendar days     notice, including notice to
                              after adopting plan            each affected entity and
                                                             submit its recommended
                                                             annexation policy plan to the
                                                             Municipal legislative body.

                                                             (3)The legislative body shall
                                                             submit a copy of the plan to
                                                             the legislative body of each
                                                             county in which any of the
                                                             Municipality's expansion area
                                                             is located.


                                                             (4)Provide a copy of adopted
                                                             plan to the County.
Appeal of a permit decision                                  Notify the applicant of the
                                                             date,time, and place of each
                                                             public hearing and public
                                                             meeting to consider the
                                                             application; provide to each
                                                             applicant a copy of each staff
                                                             report regarding the applicant
                                                             or the pending application at
                                                             least 3 business calendar days
                                                             before the public hearing or
                                                             public meeting; and notify the
                                                                 applicant of any final action on
                                                                 a pending application
Amendment to public            30 calendar day notice prior to   Mailed notice and an
improvement standard in        implementing an amendment         opportunity to comment to
subdivision or development     to adopted specifications for     anyone who has requested the
requirement ordinance          public improvements that          notice in writing.
                               apply to subdivision or
                               development
Conditional use permit         See Land Use Application          City will mail out notice to
                                                                 adjacent and nearby property
                               Additional Notice:                owners within 1,000 feet.
Land use application           3 calendar days before            Notify the applicant of the
                               meeting or hearing and final      date,time, and place of each
                               action on application             public hearing and public
                                                                 meeting and application;
                                                                 provide to each applicant a
                                                                 copy of each staff report or
                                                                 documentation regarding the
                                                                 applicant orthe pending
                                                                 application at least 3 business
                                                                 calendar days before the
                                                                 public hearing or public
                                                                 meeting and notify them of
                                                                 any final action on a pending
                                                                 application.
Nonconforming uses/non-        See Land Use Application
complying structures
Preliminary subdivision plat                                     (1)The staff shall post notice
approval                                                         of subdivision approvals in

                                                                 the City's website.
                               D. Additional noticeSee Land
                                                                 (2) As a courtesy to property



                                                                 and preaddressed envelopes




                                                                 boundary of the property
                                                                 subject to the application,
                                                                 together with a mailing list for
                                                                 those owners. The addresses


                                                                 recently available Salt Lake
                                                                 application or action, and the

                                                                 public hearing on the matter
Subdivision plat approval or     Within 20 calendar days after   Certified or registered letter to
amendment within 100feet of      application is filed            canal operator. Must wait 20
a canal                                                          calendar days after notice to
                                                                 take final action on item.
Vacating or amending a           10 calendar days prior to       Notice mailed to each
subdivision plat                 public meeting. If public       affected entity that provides a
                                 hearing is required due to      service on a portion of the plat
                                 exceptions, then 10 calendar    being vacated or amended
                                 day notice is required.         pursuant to Utah Code§ 10-
                                                                 9a-608.
Vacating some or all of a        10 calendar days prior to       Mailed to the record owner of
public street, right-of-way or   public hearing                  each parcel that is accessed
easement                                                         by the public street, right-of-
                                                                 way, or easement; mailed to
                                                                 each affected entity; posted
                                                                 on or near the street, right-of-
                                                                 way, or easement in a manner
                                                                 that is calculated to alert the
                                                                 public; and published in a
                                                                 newspaper of general
                                                                 circulation in the municipality
                                                                 in which the land subject to
                                                                 the petition is located and
                                                                 published on the Utah public
                                                                 notice website pursuant to
                                                                 Utah Code §10-9a-208.
Variances                        See Land Use Application



  1. Costs: Any costs associated with the provisions of the notice requirements herein
     shall be the responsibility of the proponent of the action. If notice given under
     authority of this section is not challenged as provided by State law within thirty(30)
     calendar days from the date of the meeting for which notice was given,the notice is
      considered adequate and proper.
  2. Applicant Notice; Waiver Of Requirements: For each land use application, the City
      shall:
            1. Notify the applicant of the date, time, and place of each public hearing and
               public meeting to consider the application;
            2. Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the applicant
               or the pending application at least three(3)business calendar days before the
               public hearing or public meeting; and
3. Notify the applicant of any final action on a pending application.
4. If a municipality fails to comply with the requirements of subsection C1 or C2
   of this section, or both, an applicant may waive the failure, verbally or in
   writing at the meeting,so that the application may stay on the public hearing
   or public meeting agenda and be considered as if the requirements had been
   met.(Ord. 2018-02,1-10-2018)
11.30.090 Land Use Annlications


     A. Required: A land use application shall be required for approval of all proposed
        development reviewed under this title, including additions to existing buildings and
        temporary uses. All land use applications are available from the Zoning
        Administrator. The City is not obligated to act on any application that is not complete
        or does not contain all of the information required.
     B. Applications: The Zoning Administrator, or designee, initially reviews all complete
        applications requiring action by the Planning Commission and makes
        recommendations to the Planning Commission and/or City Council, according to the
        type of application filed. The Zoning Administrator may process one application at a
        time, per property or may process coordinated applications simuitaneouslv. except
        thai a llnal plai aonlication mav not be siibmitled or considered until a preliminary
        plat anplicaiioii has been appro\cd. The Zoning Administrator, or designee, may
        recommend to the Planning Commission certain conditions of approval to applications
        for conditional use permits. The Zoning Administrator, or designee, issues permits for
        administrative uses and administrative lot line adjustments.
     C.Issuer: The Planning Commission issues land use permits for conditional uses and site
        plans as listed in the table of reviewimz bodies in section (1) below. The building
        official issues building permits. The business license official issues business licenses.
        The City Council issues pormits for subdivisionG and oito plans including a building

        more parking slall;
     D.Process: The Planning Commission reviews, holds a public meeting or hearing and
       forwards a recommendation to the City Council regarding each application for land
        use regulations including, but not limited to. subdivlGion approval, subdivision plat
        amendmLMU. initial zoning, rezoning, and adoption of condominium record of iiiirvev.
        and amendments to this chapter and to the General Plan.
     E. Appeals: The Appeals and Variance Hearing Officer, acting as the Land Use
        Authority, hears all requests for variances, and, acting as the Appeal Authority, hears
        appeals of conditional uses and administrative zoning determinations.
     F. Fees: No review shall occur until all applicable fees are paid.
     G. Applicability Of Subdivision Ordinance: Any application for a subdivision shall also
        satisfy the applicable requirements of the subdivision ordinance. Review of land use
        requirements and subdivision approval may be completed concurrently but are
        separate and distinct applications and reviews. Re\ie\\ of siibdi\isions for single-
        famih dwellings. t\\o-famil\ dwellings, or townhomes are administrative in nature.
        Review of a development agreement related to a subdiv ision application is legislative
        in nature, and shall be considered bv the Citv Council under a separate application.

     H.Requirements Fulfilled Prior To Activity: No use, development or development
       activity may be commenced until all necessary approvals, permits and licenses have
  been issued in accordance with the provisions of this title, and all required fees have
  been paid by the applicant.
I.Reviewing Bodies: The Zoning Administrator (ZA) or designee, the Appeals and
  Variance Hearing Officer (AVHO), the Planning Commission (PC), and the City
  Council (CC) each have the following primary authority to review applications for
  compliance with this title, unless specified differently by ordinance or development
  agreement:


                                  Zoning
                              Administrator                                 Appeal
     Type Of Review            Or Designee      PC     CC     AVHO        Authority


Accessory dwelling unit             X                                      AVHO

Concept plan                        X

Lot line adjustment                 X
Lot line adjustment appeal                                     AVHO

Preliminary subdivision plat                X   X

Preliminary subdivision plat, minor         X

Final subdivision plat                      X

Final subdivision plat, minor               X                  AVHO

Final subdivision plat appeal                                  AVHO

Plat amendment                              X   X              AVHO

Site plan (minor)                           X   X

Site plan (major)                           X   X

Site plan appeal                            X                  AVHO

Business license use review                 X                  AVHO

Conditional use                             X   X

Conditional use appeal                      X                  AVHO

Street dedication plat                      X   X   X

Street dedication plat appeal               X                  AVHO

Variance                                                X   District Court

Land       use       ordinance       text
                                            X   X   X       District Court
amendment

Land       use       ordinance       text
                                                            District Court
amendment appeal
Zoning Map change(rezone)                   X   X   X

Zoning     Map      change       (rezone)
                                            X               District Court
appeal
General Plan amendment                      X   X   X

General Plan amendment appeal               X                  AVHO

Home occupation                             X

Home occupation appeal                                         AVHO

Home occupation extra employees
                                                X              AVHO
(CUP)
Sign permit                                 X

Sign permit appeal                          X                  AVHO
(Ord. 2018-02,1-10-2018; amd. Ord. 2018-05,3-14-2018; Ord. 2018-24, 9-26-2018; Ord.
2019-17,9-
25-2019)
                                               3
                                     bluffjdale
                  2222 West 14400 South • Bluffdale, Utah 84065 • (801)254-2200
                         Community and Economic Development Department

                                              STAFF REPORT
                                              13 January 2024



To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Grant Crowell; Jay Springer,Smith Hartvigsen PLLC

Re:     Citv Initiated Text Amendment Modifying Various Subdivision Provisions Pursuant to SB 174
        Application No:         2024-02
        Applicant(s):           City of Bluffdale
        Request:                To approve proposed text amendments to the Bluffdale City Code
                                Land Use Ordinance Sections 11.30, and Title 12,Subdivisions

SUMMARY
The 2023 Utah State Legislature adopted Senate Bill 174(SB 174),\A/hich amended various land use
and development requirements for municipalities and counties, including subdivision review
procedures. The "effective date" of the amended subdivision review procedures is February 1,2024
(see Attachment B - Utah Code Subdivision Review Requirements).

The primary effects of Senate Bill 174 are:

   •        Requires cities and counties to identify an administrative land use authority for
            subdivision review and preliminary subdivision application approval for single-family
            dwellings, two-family dwellings, and townhomes;
   •        Prohibits city and county councils from acting as an administrative land use authority for
            subdivision plats or plat amendments—except for plat amendments or vacations that
            seek to reduce or remove dedicated public rights-of-way;
   •        Establishes subdivision review procedures for cities and counties, including defining
            review cycles and permitted requests, and establishes timelines and noticing
            requirements;
   •        Requires that a pre-application meeting be available to any interested applicant; and
   •        Requires certain administrative and processing standards be made publicly available.

Although the current Bluffdale City Code and adopted engineering standards are generally—and
operationally—compliant with SB 174,the City has been advised that to ensure clarity, consistency,
and compliance with State Code,several text amendments to Titles 11 and 12 may be warranted.
Additionally, City Staff identified some other ministerial provisions that either needed to be updated



                                                        Text Amendment Application - City Initiated Subdivisions
                                                                January 17,2024 - Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                         Page 1
due to review and administration practices, best practices, or other provisions of State Code. The last
comprehensive update of the City's subdivision ordinance was in 2019.

Proposed text amendments to Section 11.30 and Title 12 are shown on the attached Exhibit A.

POSSIBLE FINDINGS FORTEXT AMENDMENT APPLICATION:
The Planning Commission is encouraged to provide findings for a decision to recommend approval or
deny the text amendment application.Text amendments are discretionary legislative actions by the
City Council following a recommendation from the Planning Commission.

If the Planning Commission determines to recommend approval of the text amendment application,
the following may be possible findings:
1.     That the proposed amendments are necessary to address consistency with Utah State Code.
2. That the proposed amendments will work to further streamline development review.

MODEL MOTIONS- FOR TEXT AMENDMENT APPLICATION:


Motion for Recommendation -"I move we recommend approval to the City Council for the text
amendment application as proposed. Application 2024-02,subject to the conditions and based on the
findings presented in the staff report dated January 13,2024,(or as modified by the conditions
below):"
        1.     List any additional findings and/or conditions...




                                                       Text Amendment Application - City Initiated Subdivisions
                                                               January 17,2024- Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                        Page 2
      Enrolled Copy                                                                            S.B. 174

1                  LOCAL LAND USE AND DEVELOPMENT REVISIONS

2                                           2023 GENERAL SESSION

3                                              STATE OF UTAH

4                                   Chief Sponsor: Lincoln Fillmore
5                                   House Sponsor: Stephen L. Whyte
6    ==s=^=^=^^===^=s=^^=^=:

7    LONG TITLE

8    General Description:
9           This bill amends provisions related to local land use and development.
10   Highlighted Provisions:
11          This bill:

12               amends the penalties for noncompliance with the requirements applicable to a
13   political subdivision's moderate income housing report;
14               defines the circumstances under which a garage may be included in the definition of
15   an internal accessory dwelling unit;
16          ►    amends a political subdivision's authority with respect to restrictions and
17   requirements for internal accessory dwelling units;
18          *■   enacts a new process for subdivision review and approval; and
19          ►    makes technical changes.
20   Money Appropriated in this Bill:
21          None

22   Other Special Clauses:
23          None

24   Utah Code Sections Affected:

25   AMENDS:

26          10-9a-408, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2022, Chapter 406
27          10-9a-530, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapter 102
28          10-9a-608, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2022, Chapter 355
29          17-27a-408, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2022, Chapter 406
       S.B. 174                                                                   Enrolled Copy
30          17-27a-526, as enacted by Laws of Utah 2021, Chapter 102
31          17-27a-608, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2022, Chapter 355
32          631-2-210, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2022, Chapter 274
33          631-2-217, as last amended by Laws of Utah 2022, Chapter 123
34   ENACTS:

35          10-9a-604.1, Utah Code Annotated 1953
36          10-9a-604.2, Utah Code Annotated 1953
37          10-9a-604.9, Utah Code Annotated 1953

38          17-27a-604.1, Utah Code Annotated 1953

39          17-27a-604.2, Utah Code Annotated 1953
40          17-27a-604.9, Utah Code Annotated 1953
41

42   Be it enacted by the Legislature ofthe state of Utah:
43          Section 1. Section 10-9a-408 is amended to read:

44          10-9a-408. Moderate income housing report — Contents — Prioritization for
45   funds or projects ~ Ineligibility for funds after noncompliance — Civil actions.
46          (1) As used in this section:
47          (a) "Division" means the Housing and Community Development Division within the
48   Department of Workforce Services.
49          (b) "Implementation plan" means the implementation plan adopted as part of the
50   moderate income housing element of a specified municipality's general plan as provided in
51   Subsection 10-9a-403(2)(c).
52          (c) "Moderate income housing report" or "report" means the report described in
53   Subsection (2)(a).
54          (d) "Moderate income housing strategy" means a strategy described in Subsection
55   10-9a-403(2)(b)(iii).
56          (e) "Specified municipality" means:
57          (i) a city of the first, second, third, or fourth class;




                                                       -2-
      Enrolled Copy                                                                           S.B. 174
58          (ii) a city ofthe fifth class with a population of5,000 or more,if the city is located
59   within a county ofthe first, second, or third class; or
60          (iii) a metro township with a population of5,000 or more.
61          (2)(a) Beginning in 2022,on or before October 1 of each calendar year, the legislative
62   body of a specified municipality shall annually submit a written moderate income housing
63   report to the division.
64          (b) The moderate income housing report submitted in 2022 shall include:
65          (i) a description of each moderate income housing strategy selected by the specified
66   municipality for implementation; and
67          (ii) an implementation plan.
68          (c) The moderate income housing report submitted in each calendar year after 2022
69   shall include:

70          (i) the information required under Subsection (2)(b);
71          (ii) a description of each action, whether one-time or ongoing, taken by the specified
72   municipality during the previous fiscal year to implement the moderate income housing
73   strategies selected by the specified municipality for implementation;
74          (iii) a description ofeach land use regulation or land use decision made by the
75   specified municipality during the previous fiscal year to implement the moderate income
76   housing strategies, including an explanation ofhow the land use regulation or land use decision
77   supports the specified municipality's efforts to implement the moderate income housing
78   strategies;
79          (iv) a description of any barriers encountered by the specified municipality in the
80   previous fiscal year in implementing the moderate income housing strategies;
81          (v) information regarding the number ofintemal and external or detached accessory
82   dwelling units located within the specified municipality for which the specified municipality:
83          (A) issued a building permit to construct; or
84          (B) issued a business license to rent;
85          (vi) a description of how the market has responded to the selected moderate income
        S.B. 174                                                                        Enrolled Copy
86    housing strategies, including the number of entitled moderate income housing imits or other
87    relevant data; and
88              (vii) any recommendations on how the state can support the specified municipality in
89    implementing the moderate income housing strategies.
90              (d) The moderate income housing report shall be in a form:
91              (i) approved by the division; and
92              (ii) made available by the division on or before July 1 ofthe year in which the report is
93    required.
94              (3) Within 90 days after the day on which the division receives a specified
95    municipality's moderate income housing report, the division shall:
96              (a) post the report on the division's website;
97              (b) send a copy ofthe report to the Department of Transportation, the Governor's
98    Office ofPlanning and Budget,the association of governments in which the specified
99    municipality is located, and,ifthe specified municipality is located within the boundaries ofa
100   metropolitan planning organization, the appropriate metropolitan planning organization; and
101             (c) subject to Subsection(4), review the report to determine compliance with
102   Subsection (2).
103             (4)(a) The report described in Subsection (2)(b) complies with Subsection(2)ifthe
104   report:
105             (i) includes the information required under Subsection (2)(b);
106             (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified municipality made plans to
107   implement:
108          (A) three or more moderate income housing strategies if the specified municipality
109   does not have a fixed guideway public transit station; or
110             (B) subject to Subsection 10-9a-403(2)(b)(iv),five or more moderate income housing
111   strategies ifthe specified municipality has a fixed guideway public transit station; and
112             (iii) is in a form approved by the division.
113             (b) The report described in Subsection (2)(c) complies with Subsection(2)if the




                                                         4-
       Enrolled Copy                                                                              S.B. 174
114   report:
115             (i) includes the information required under Subsection (2)(c);
116             (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified municipality made plans to
117   implement:
118             (A) three or more moderate income housing strategies ifthe specified municipality
119   does not have a fixed guideway public transit station; or
120             (B) four or more moderate income housing strategies ifthe specified municipality has a
121   fixed guideway public transit station;
122             (iii) is in a form approved by the division; and
123             (iv) provides sufficient information for the division to:
124             (A) assess the specified municipality's progress in implementing the moderate income
125   housing strategies;
126             (B) monitor compliance with the specified municipality's implementation plan;
127             (C) identify a clear correlation between the specified municipality's land use
128   regulations and land use decisions and the specified municipality's efforts to implement the
129   moderate income housing strategies; and
130             (D) identify how the market has responded to the specified municipality's selected
131   moderate income housing strategies.
132             (5)(a) A specified municipality qualifies for priority consideration under this
133   Subsection(5)ifthe specified municipality's moderate income housing report:
134             (i) complies with Subsection(2); and
135             (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified municipality made plans to
136   implement:
137             (A) five or more moderate income housing strategies if the specified municipality does
138   not have a fixed guideway public transit station; or
139             (B) six or more moderate income housing strategies ifthe specified municipality has a
140   fixed guideway public transit station.
141             [(b) The following apply to a specified municipality described in Subsection(5)(a)




                                                         5-
        S.B. 174                                                                         Enrolled Copy
142   during tbs fiscal ycai' immediately following the fiscal year in which the report is required:]
143          [(i) the Transportation Commission may give priurity consideration to transportation
144   projects located within the boundaries of the specified municipality in accordancc-wt^
145   Subsection 72-1-j04(3)(c); and]
146          [(ii) the Governor's QfTice ofPlanning and Budget may give priority consideration for
147   awarding financial gi'ants to the specified municipality under the COVrD-19 Local Assistance
148   Matching Grant Program in accordance with Subsection 631-4-802(6).]
149          (b) The Transportation Commission may give priority consideration to transportation

150   projects located within the boundaries of a specified municipality described in Subsection

151   ("5)(a) during the fiscal year immediately following the fiscal year in which the report is

152   required, in accordance with Subsection 72-l-304(3)(c).

153          (c) Upon determining that a specified municipality qualifies for priority consideration
154   under this Subsection (5), the division shall send a notice of prioritization to the legislative
155   body of the specified municipality[;] and the Department of Transportation[, and the
156   Governor's Office ofPlanning and Budget].
157          (d) The notice described in Subsection (5)(c) shall:
158          (i) name the specified municipality that qualifies for priority consideration;
159          (ii) describe the funds or projects for which the specified municipality qualifies to
160   receive priority consideration;
161          (iii) specify the fiscal year during which the specified municipality qualifies for priority
162   consideration; and

163          (iv) state the basis for the division's determination that the specified municipality
164   qualifies for priority consideration.
165          (6)(a) If the division, after reviewing a specified municipality's moderate income
166   housing report, determines that the report does not comply with Subsection (2), the division
167   shall send a notice of noncompliance to the legislative body ofthe specified municipality.
168          (b) The notice described in Subsection (6)(a) shall:
169          (i) describe each deficiency in the report and the actions needed to cure each




                                                       -6-
        Enrolled Copy                                                                             S.B. 174
170   deficiency;
171          (ii) state that the specified municipality has an opportunity to cure the deficiencies
172   within 90 days after the day on which the notice is sent; and
173          (iii) state that failure to cure the deficiencies within 90 days after the day on which the
174   notice is sent will result in ineligibility for funds and fees owed under Subsection (7).
175          (7)(a) A specified municipality is ineligible for funds and owes a fee under this
176   Subsection(7)if the specified municipality:
177          (i) fails to submit a moderate income housing report to the division; or
178          (ii) fails to cure the deficiencies in the specified municipality's moderate income
179   housing report within 90 days after the day on which the division sent to the specified
180   municipality a notice of noncompliance under Subsection (6).
181          (b) The following apply to a specified municipality described in Subsection (7)(a)
182   during the fiscal year immediately following the fiscal year in which the report is required:
183          (i) the executive director of the Department of Transportation may not program funds
184   from the Transportation Investment Fund of2005, including the Transit Transportation
185   Investment Fund, to projects located within the boundaries of the specified municipality in
186   accordance with Subsection 72-2-124(5);[and]
187          [(ii) the Governor's Office of riamiing and Budget may not award financial giants to
188   the specified municipality under the CQVID-19 Local Assistance Matching Grant Program in


190          (ii) beginning with a report submitted in 2024, the specified municipality shall pay a

191   fee to the Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund in the amount of$250 per day that the specified

192   municipality:

193          (A) fails to submit the report to the division in accordance with this section, beginning

194   the day after the day on which the report was due; or

195          (B) fails to cure the deficiencies in the report, beginning the day after the day by which

196   the cure was required to occur as described in the notice of noncompliance under Subsection

197   (6): and




                                                      -7-
        S.B. 174                                                                        Enrolled Copy
198          (iii) beginning with the report submitted in 2025. the specified municipality shall pay a

199   fee to the Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund in the amount of$500 per day that the specified

200   municipality, in a consecutive year:

201          (A) fails to submit the report to the division in accordance with this section, beginning

202   the day after the day on which the report was due: or

203          (B) fails to cure the deficiencies in the report, beginning the day after the day by which

204   the cure was required to occur as described in the notice of noncompliance under Subsection

205

206          (c) Upon determining that a specified municipality is ineligible for funds under this
207   Subsection (7), and is required to pay a fee under Subsection (7)0)), if applicable, the division
208   shall send a notice ofineligibility to the legislative body ofthe specified municipality, the
209   Department of Transportation, and the Governor's Office ofPlanning and Budget.
210          (d) The notice described in Subsection(7)(c) shall:
211          (i) name the specified municipality that is ineligible for funds;
212          (ii) describe the funds for which the specified municipality is ineligible to receive;
213          (iii) describe the fee the specified municipality is required to pay under Subsection

214   (7)(b\ if applicable:

215          [fiii)]     specify the fiscal year during which the specified municipality is ineligible
216   for funds; and
217          [(tr)]{y} state the basis for the division's determination that the specified municipality
218   is ineligible for funds.
219          (e) The division may not determine that a specified municipality that is required to pay

220   a fee under Subsection (7)(b) is in compliance with the reporting requirements ofthis section

221   until the specified municipality pays all outstanding fees required under Subsection (7)(b)to

222   the Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund, created under Title 35A,Chapter 8,Part 5, Olene

223   Walker Housing Loan Fund.

224          (8) In a civil action seeking enforcement or claiming a violation ofthis section or of
225   Subsection 10-9a-404(4)(c), a plaintiff may not recover damages but may be awarded only




                                                       8-
        Enrolled Copy                                                                          S.B. 174
226   injimctive or other equitable relief.
227           Section 2. Section 10-9a-530 is amended to read:

228           10-9a-530. Internal accessory dwelling units.
229          (1) As used in this section:
230          (a) "Internal accessory dwelling unit" means an accessory dwelling unit created:
231          (i) within a primary dwelling;
232           (ii) within the footprint ofthe primary dwelling described in Subsection (l)(a)(i) at the
233   time the internal accessory dwelling unit is created; and
234           (iii) for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of30 consecutive days or longer.
235          (b)(i) "Primary dwelling" means a single-family dwelling that:
236           [fi)]     is detached; and
237           [(«)]      is occupied as the primary residence ofthe owner ofrecord.
238           (iii "Primary dwelling" includes a garage if the garage:

239          (A) is a habitable space: and

240          (B1 is coimected to the primary dwelling by a common wall.

241          (2) In any area zoned primarily for residential use:
242          (a) the use ofan internal accessory dwelling unit is a permitted use;[and]
243          (b) except as provided in Subsections(3)and (4), a municipality may not establish any
244   restrictions or requirements for the construction or use ofone internal accessory dwelling unit
245   within a primary dwelling, including a restriction or requirement governing:
246          (i) the size ofthe internal accessory dwelling unit in relation to the primary dwelling;
247           (ii) total lot size;[tw]
248           (iii) street frontageM: or
249          (iv) internal connectivity, and

250          (c) a municipality's regulation of architectural elements for internal accessory dwelling

251   units shall be consistent with the regulation ofsingle-family units, including single-family units

252   located in historic districts.

253          (3) An internal accessory dwelling unit shall comply with all applicable building.




                                                     -9-
       S.B. 174                                                                         Enrolled Copy
254   health, and fire codes.
255           (4) A municipality may:
256           (a) prohibit the installation ofa separate utility meter for an internal accessory dwelling
257   unit;
258           (b) require that an intemal accessory dwelling unit be designed in a manner that does
259   not change the appearance ofthe primary dwelling as a single-family dwelling;
260           (c) require a primary dwelling:
261           (i) regardless of whether the primary dwelling is existing or new construction, to
262   include one additional on-site parking space for an intemal accessory dwelling unit,[regardless
263   of whether the primary dwelling is existing or new construction] in addition to the parking
264   spaces required under the municipality's land use regulation, except that ifthe municipality's

265   land use ordinance requires four off-street parking spaces, the municipality may not require the

266   additional space contemplated under this Subsection(4)(cXik and

267           (ii) to replace any parking spaces contained within a garage or carport if an intemal
268   accessory dwelling unit is created within the garage or carport and is a habitable space;
269           (d) prohibit the creation ofan intemal accessory dwelling unit within a mobile home as
270   defined in Section 57-16-3;
271           (e) require the owner ofa primary dwelling to obtain a permit or license for renting an
272   intemal accessory dwelling unit;
273           (f) prohibit the creation of an intemal accessory dwelling unit within a zoning district
274   covering an area that is equivalent to:
275           (i) 25% or less ofthe total area in the municipality that is zoned primarily for
276   residential use, except that the municipality may not prohibit newlv constructed intemal

277   accessory dwelling units that:

278           (A) have a final plat approval dated on or after October 1,2021: and

279           (B) comply with applicable land use regulations: or

280           (ii) 67% or less ofthe total area in the municipality that is zoned primarily for
281   residential use, ifthe main campus ofa state or private university with a student population of




                                                       10-
        Enrolled Copy                                                                              S.B. 174
282   10,000 or more is located within the municipality;
283          (g) prohibit the creation ofan intemal accessory dwelling unit if the primary dwelling
284   is served by a failing septic tank;
285          (h) prohibit the creation ofan intemal accessory dwelling unit if the lot containing the
286   primary dwelling is 6,000 square feet or less in size;
287              (i) prohibit the rental or offering the rental ofan intemal accessory dwelling unit for a
288   period ofless than 30 consecutive days;
289              (j) prohibit the rental ofan intemal accessory dwelling unit if the intemal accessory
290   dwelling unit is located in a dwelling that is not occupied as the owner's primary residence;
291              (k) hold a lien against a property that contains an intemal accessory dwelling unit in
292   accordance with Subsection(5); and
293              (1) record a notice for an intemal accessory dwelling unit in accordance with
294   Subsection (6).
295              (5)(a) In addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available to a municipality, a
296   municipality may hold a lien against a property that contains an intemal accessory dwelling
297   unit if:

298              (i) the owner ofthe property violates any ofthe provisions ofthis section or any
299   ordinance adopted under Subsection (4);
300              (ii) the municipality provides a written notice of violation in accordance with
301   Subsection (5)(b);
302              (iii) the municipality holds a hearing and determines that the violation has occurred in
303   accordance with Subsection (5)(d), ifthe owner files a written objection in accordance with
304   Subsection (5)(b)(iv);
305              (iv) the owner fails to cure the violation within the time period prescribed in the
306   written notice of violation under Subsection (5)(b);
307              (v) the municipality provides a written notice oflien in accordance with Subsection
308   (5)(c); and
309              (vi) the municipality records a copy ofthe written notice oflien described in




                                                          11
        S.B. 174                                                                        Enrolled Copy
310   Subsection [(5)(a)(iv)](SKaKv)with the county recorder ofthe county in which the property is
311   located.

312          (b) The written notice of violation shall:
313          (i) describe the specific violation;
314          (ii) provide the owner ofthe internal accessory dwelling unit a reasonable opportunity
315   to cure the violation that is:

316          (A) no less than 14 days after the day on which the municipality sends the written
317   notice of violation, ifthe violation results from the owner renting or offering to rent the internal
318   accessory dwelling unit for a period ofless than 30 consecutive days; or
319          (B) no less than 30 days after the day on which the municipality sends the written
320   notice of violation,for any other violation;
321          (iii) state that if the owner ofthe property fails to cure the violation within the time
322   period described in Subsection (5)(b)(ii), the municipality may hold a lien against the property
323   in an amount of up to $100 for each day of violation after the day on which the opportunity to
324   cure the violation expires;
325          (iv) notify the owner ofthe property:.
326          (A) that the owner may file a written objection to the violation within 14 days after the
327   day on which the written notice of violation is post-marked or posted on the property, and
328          (B) ofthe name and address ofthe municipal office where the owner may file the
329   written objection;
330          (v) be mailed to:
331          (A) the property's owner ofrecord; and
332          (B) any other individual designated to receive notice in the owner's license or permit
333   records; and

334          (vi) be posted on the property.
335          (c) The written notice oflien shall:
336          (i) comply with the requirements of Section 38-12-102;
337          (ii) state that the property is subject to a lien;




                                                         12-
        Enrolled Copy                                                                              S.B. 174
338          (iii) specify the lien amount,in an amount of up to $100 for each day of violation after
339   the day on which the opportunity to cure the violation expires;
340          (iv) be mailed to:
341          (A) the property's owner ofrecord; and
342          (B) any other individual designated to receive notice in the owner's license or permit
343   records; and
344          (v) be posted on the property.
345          (d)(i) If an owner of property files a written objection in accordance with Subsection
346   (5)(b)(iv), the municipality shall:
347          (A) hold a hearing in accordance with Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings
348   Act, to conduct a review and determine whether the specific violation described in the written
349   notice of violation under Subsection (5)(b) has occurred; and
350          (B) notify the owner in writing ofthe date, time, and location ofthe hearing described
351   in Subsection (5)(d)(i)(A) no less than 14 days before the day on which the hearing is held.
352          (ii) If an owner of property files a written objection under Subsection (5)(b)(iv), a
353   municipality may not record a lien under this Subsection(5)until the municipality holds a
354   hearing and determines that the specific violation has occurred.
355          (iii) If the municipality determines at the hearing that the specific violation has
356   occurred, the municipality may impose a lien in an amount of up to $100 for each day of
357   violation after the day on which the opportunity to cure the violation expires, regardless of
358   whether the hearing is held after the day on which the opportunity to cure the violation has
359   expired.
360          (e) If an owner cures a violation within the time period prescribed in the written notice
361   of violation under Subsection (5)(b), the municipality may not hold a lien against the property,
362   or impose any penalty or fee on the owner,in relation to the specific violation described in the
363   written notice of violation under Subsection (5)(b).
364          (6)(a) A municipality that issues, on or after October 1,2021, a permit or license to an
365   owner ofa primary dwelling to rent an intemal accessory dwelling unit, or a building permit to




                                                      13
       S.B. 174                                                                       Enrolled Copy
366   an owner ofa primary dwelling to create an internal accessory dwelling unit, may record a
367   notice in the office ofthe recorder ofthe county in which the primary dwelling is located.
368          (b) The notice described in Subsection (6)(a) shall include:
369          (i) a description ofthe primary dwelling;
370          (ii) a statement that the primary dwelling contains an internal accessory dwelling unit;
371   and

372          (iii) a statement that the internal accessory dwelling unit may only be used in
373   accordance with the municipality's land use regulations.
374          (c) The municipality shall, upon recording the notice described in Subsection (6)(a),
375   deliver a copy ofthe notice to the owner ofthe internal accessory dwelling unit.
376          Section 3. Section 10-9a-604.1 is enacted to read:

377          10-9a-604.1. Process for subdivision review and approval.
378          (IHa) As used in this section, an "administrative land use authority" means an

379   individual, board, or commission, appointed or employed bv a municipality, including

380   municipal staff or a municipal planning commission.

381          (b) "Administrative land use authority" does not include a municipal legislative body

382   or a member ofa municipal legislative body.

383          (2)(a) This section applies to land use decisions arising firom subdivision applications

384   for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes.

385          (b) This section does not apply to land use regulations adopted, approved, or agreed

386   upon bv a legislative body exercising land use authority in the review ofland use applications

387   for zoning or other land use regulation approvals.

388          (3) A municipal ordinance governing the subdivision ofland shall:

389          (a) comply with this section, and establish a standard method and form of application

390   for preliminary subdivision applications and final subdivision applications; and

391          (b)(i) designate a single administrative land use authority for the review of preliminary

392   applications to subdivide land: or

393          (ii) ifthe municipality has adopted an ordinance that establishes a separate procedure




                                                      14-
       Enrolled Copy                                                                             S.B, 174

394   for the review and approval of subdivisions under Section 10-9a-6Q5, the municipality may

395   designate a different and separate administrative land use authority for the approval of

396   subdivisions under Section 10-9a-605.

397          ("4)(a) If an applicant requests a pre-application meeting, the municipality shall within

398   15 business days after the request, schedule the meeting to review the concept plan and give

399   initial feedback.

400          (b) At the pre-application meeting, the municipal staff shall provide or have available

401   on the municipal website the following:

402          (i) copies of applicable land use regulations;

403          (ii) a complete list of standards required for the project;

404          ("iii) preliminary and final application checklists; and

405          (iv) feedback on the concept plan.

406          (5) A preliminary subdivision application shall comply with all applicable municipal

407   ordinances and requirements of this section.

408          (6) An administrative land use authority may complete a preliminary subdivision

409   application review in a public meeting or at a municipal staff level.

410          (7) With respect to a preliminary application to subdivide land, an administrative land

411   use authority may:

412          (a) receive public comment; and

413          (b) hold no more than one public hearing.

414          (8) If a preliminary subdivision application complies with the applicable municipal
415   ordinances and the requirements of this section, the administrative land use authority shall

416   approve the preliminary subdivision application.

417          (9) A municipality shall review and approve or deny a fmal subdivision plat

418   application in accordance with the provisions of this section and municipal ordinances, which:

419          ("a) may permit concurrent processing of the final subdivision plat application with the

420   preliminary subdivision plat application: and

421          (b) may not require planning commission or city council approval.




                                                      - 15-
        S.B. 174                                                                       Enrolled Copy

422          (10) If a final subdivision application complies with the requirements of this section,

423   the applicable municipal ordinances, and the preliminary subdivision approval granted under

424   Subsection (9)(a), a municipality shall approve the final subdivision application.

425          Section 4. Section 10-9a-604.2 is enacted to read:

426          10-9a-604.2. Review of subdivision land use applications and subdivision
427   improvement plans.
428          (1) As used in this section:

429          (a) "Review cycle" means the occurrence of:

430          (i) the applicant's submittal ofa complete subdivision land use appUcation:

431          (ii) the municipality's review ofthat subdivision land use application;

432          (iii) the municipality's response to that subdivision land use application, in accordance

433   with this section; and

434          (iv) the applicant's reply to the municipality's response that addresses each ofthe

435   municipality's required modifications or requests for additional information.

436          (b) "Subdivision improvement plans" means the civil engineering plans associated with

437   required infrastructure and municipally controlled utilities required for a subdivision.

438          (c) "Subdivision ordinance review" means review by a mimicipalitv to verify that a

439   subdivision land use application meets the criteria ofthe municipality's subdivision ordinances.

440          (d) "Subdivision plan review" means a review ofthe applicant's subdivision

441   improvement plans and other aspects ofthe subdivision land use application to verify that the
442   application complies with municipal ordinances and applicable standards and specifications.

443          (2) The review cycle restrictions and requirements of this section do not apply to the

444   review of subdivision applications affecting property within identified geological hazard areas.

445          (3)(a) No later than 15 business days after the day on which an applicant submits a

446   complete preliminary subdivision land use application for a residential subdivision for

447   single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes. the municipality shall complete

448   the initial review ofthe application, including subdivision improvement plans.

449          (b) A municipality shall maintain and publish a list ofthe items comprising the




                                                       16-
       Enrolled Copy                                                                            S.B. 174
450   complete preliminary subdivision land use application, including:

451          (i) the application;

452          (in the owner's affidavit;

453          (iii) an electronic copy of all plans in PDF format;

454          (iv) the preliminary subdivision plat drawings: and

455          (v) a breakdown offees due upon approval ofthe application.

456          (4)(a) A municipality shall publish a list ofthe items that comprise a complete final

457   subdivision land use application.

458          (b) No later than 20 business days after the day on which an applicant submits a plat

459   the municipality shall complete a review ofthe applicant's final subdivision land use

460   application for a residential subdivision for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or

461   townhomes,including all subdivision plan reviews.

462          (5)(a) In reviewing a subdivision land use application, a municipality may require:

463          (i) additional information relating to an applicant's plans to ensure compliance with

464   municipal ordinances and approved standards and specifications for construction of public

465   improvements; and

466          (ii) modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances, applicable standards or

467   specifications, or do not contain complete information.

468          (b) A municipality's request for additional information or modifications to plans under

469   Subsection(5Xa)(i)or(ii) shall be specific and include citations to ordinances, standards, or

470   specifications that require the modifications to plans, and shall be logged in an index of

471   requested modifications or additions.

472          (c) A municipality may not require more than four review cycles.

473          (d)(i) Subject to Subsection (51(d)(ii), unless the change or correction is necessitated

474   by the applicant's adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts the

475   infi^structure needed for the specific development, a change or correction not addressed or

476   referenced in a municipality's plan review is waived.

477          (ii) A modification or correction necessary to protect public health and safety or to




                                                     -17
        S.B. 174                                                                        Enrolled Copy
478   enforce state or federal law may not be waived.

479          (iii) If an applicant makes a material change to a plan set the municipality has the

480   discretion to restart the review process at the first review ofthe final application, but only with

481   respect to the portion ofthe plan set that the material change substantiveiy effects.

482          (e) If an applicant does not submit a revised plan within 20 business days after the

483   municipality requires a modification or correction, the municipality shall have an additional 20

484   business days to respond to the plans.

485          (6) After the applicant has responded to the final review cycle, and the applicant has

486   complied with each modification requested in the municipality's previous review cycle, the

487   municipality may not require additional revisions ifthe applicant has not materially changed

488   the plan, other than changes that were in response to requested modifications or corrections.

489          (7)(a) In addition to revised plans, an applicant shall provide a written explanation in

490   response to the municipality's review comments,identifying and explaining the applicant's

491   revisions and reasons for declining to make revisions, if any.

492          (b) The applicant's written explanation shall be comprehensive and specific, including

493   citations to applicable standards and ordinances for the design and an index ofrequested

494   revisions or additions for each required correction.

495          (c) If an applicant fails to address a review comment in the response, the review cycle

496   is not complete and the subsequent review cycle may not begin until all comments are

497   addressed.

498          (8)(a) If, on the fourth or final review, a municipality fails to respond within 20

499   business days, the municipality shall, upon request ofthe property owner, and within 10

500   business days after the day on which the request is received:

501          (i) for a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans, assemble an appeal

502   panel in accordance with Subsection 10-9a-508(5)(d)to review and approve or deny the final

503   revised set of plans; or

504          (ii) for a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review, advise the applicant, in

505   writing, ofthe deficiency in the application and ofthe right to appeal the determination to a




                                                        18-
        Enrolled Copy                                                                            S.B. 174
506   designated appeal authority.

507           Section 5. Section 10-9a-604.9 is enacted to read:

508           10-9a-604.9. Effective dates of Sections 10-9a-604.1 and 10-9a-604.2.

509           d) Except as provided in Subsection (2). Sections I0-9a-604.1 and 10-9a-604.2 do not

510   apply until December 31, 2024.

511          (2) For a specified municipality, as defined in Section 10-9a-408, Sections 10-9a-604.1

512   and 10-9a-604.2 do not apply until February 1, 2024.

513           Section 6. Section 10-9a-608 is amended to read:

514           10-9a-608. Subdivision amendments.

515          (1)(a) A fee owner ofland, as shown on the last county assessment roll, in a
516   subdivision that has been laid out and platted as provided in this part may file a written petition
517   with the land use authority to request a subdivision amendment.
518          (b) Upon filing a written petition to request a subdivision amendment under Subsection
519   (l)(a), the owner shall prepare and, if approved by the land use authority, record a plat in
520   accordance with Section 10-9a-603 that:

521          (i) depicts only the portion of the subdivision that is proposed to be amended;
522          (ii) includes a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from the original plat;
523          (iii) describes the differences between the amended plat and the original plat; and
524          (iv) includes references to the original plat
525          (c) If a petition is filed under Subsection (l)(a), the land use authority shall provide
526   notice of the petition by mail, email, or other effective means to each affected entity that
527   provides a service to an owner of record ofthe portion of the plat that is being vacated or
528   amended at least 10 calendar days before the land use authority may approve the petition for a
529   subdivision amendment.

530          (d) If a petition is filed under Subsection (l)(a), the land use authority shall hold a
531   public hearing within 45 days after the day on which the petition is filed if:
532          (i) any owner within the plat notifies the municipality ofthe owner's objection in
533   writing within 10 days of mailed notification; or




                                                     -19-
        S.B. 174                                                                        Enrolled Copy
534          (ii) a public hearing is required because all ofthe owners in the subdivision have not
535   signed the revised plat.
536          (e) A land use authority may not approve a petition for a subdivision amendment under
537   this section unless the amendment identifies and preserves any easements owned by a culinary
538   water authority and sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within the
539   subdivision.

540          (2) The public hearing requirement of Subsection(l)(d)does not apply and a land use
541   authority may consider at a public meeting an owner's petition for a subdivision amendment if:
542          (a) the petition seeks to:
543          (i) join two or more ofthe petitioner fee owner's contiguous lots;
544          (ii) subdivide one or more ofthe petitioning fee owner's lots, ifthe subdivision will not
545   result in a violation ofa land use ordinance or a development condition;
546          (iii) adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an adjoining parcel if the
547   fee owners of each ofthe adjoining properties join in the petition, regardless of whether the
548   properties are located in the same subdivision;
549          (iv) on a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner,adjust an internal lot restriction
550   imposed by the local political subdivision; or
551          (v) alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries or other
552   attributes of lots within the subdivision that are not:

553          (A) owned by the petitioner; or
554          (B) designated as a common area; and
555          (b) notice has been given to adjoining property owners in accordance with any
556   applicable local ordinance.
557          (3) A petition under Subsection (l)(a) that contains a request to amend a public street
558   or municipal utility easement is also subject to Section 10-9a-609.5.
559          (4) A petition under Subsection (l)(a) that contains a request to amend an entire plat or
560   a portion ofa plat shall include:
561          (a) the name and address ofeach owner ofrecord ofthe land contained in the entire




                                                        20
       Enrolled Copy                                                                            S.B. 174

562   plat or on that portion ofthe plat described in the petition; and
563          (b) the signature of each owner described in Subsection(4)(a) who consents to the
564   petition.
565          (5)(a) The owners ofrecord of adjoining properties where one or more ofthe
566   properties is a lot may exchange title to portions ofthose [parcels] properties ifthe exchange of
567   title is approved by the land use authority as a lot line adiustment in accordance with
568   Subsection (5)(b).
569          (b) The land use authority shall approve [an exchange oftitle] a lot line adiustment
570   under Subsection (5)(a)ifthe exchange of title will not result in a violation of any land use
571   ordinance.

572          (c) If[an exchange of title] a lot line adiustment is approved under Subsection (5)(b):
573          (i) a notice oflot line adiustment approval shall be recorded in the office ofthe county
574   recorder which:

575          (A) is [executed] approved by[each owner included in the exchange and by]the land
576   use authority; and
577          [(D) contains an acknowledgment for each paity executing the notice in accordance
578   with the provisions of Title 57, Chapter 2a, Recognition of Acknowledgments Act; and]
579          [(e)]       recites the legal descriptions ofboth the original properties and the properties
580   resulting from the exchange oftitle; and
581          (ii) a document ofconveyance shall be recorded in the office ofthe county recorder
582   [with an amended plat].
583          (d) A notice ofapproval recorded under this Subsection(5)does not act as a
584   conveyance oftitle to real property and is not required in order to record a document conveying
585   title to real property.
586          (6)(a) The name of a recorded subdivision may be changed by recording an amended
587   plat making that change, as provided in this section and subject to Subsection (6)(c).
588          (b) The surveyor preparing the amended plat shall certify that the surveyor:
589          (i) holds a license in accordance with Title 58, Chapter 22, Professional Engineers and




                                                      -21-
       S.B. 174                                                                      Enrolled Copy

590   Professional Land Surveyors Licensing Act;
591          (ii)(A) has completed a survey ofthe property described on the plat in accordance with
592   Section 17-23-17 and has verified all measurements; or
593          (B) has referenced a record of survey map of the existing property boundaries shown
594   on the plat and verified the locations of the boundaries; and
595          (iii) has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
596          (c) An owner ofland may not submit for recording an amended plat that gives the
597   subdivision described in the amended plat the same name as a subdivision in a plat already
598   recorded in the county recorder's office.
599          (d) Except as provided in Subsection (6)(a), the recording of a declaration or other
600   document that purports to change the name of a recorded plat is void.
601          Section 7. Section 17-27a-408 is amended to read:

602          17-27a-408. Moderate income housing report — Contents — Prioritization for
603   funds or projects - Ineligibility for funds after noncompiiance - Civil actions.
604          (1) As used in this section:
605          (a) "Division" means the Housing and Community Development Division within the
606   Department of Workforce Services.
607          (b) "Implementation plan" means the implementation plan adopted as part of the
608   moderate income housing element of a specified county's general plan as provided in
609   Subsection [10-9a-403(2)(c)] 17-27a-40U3')fa).
610          (c) "Moderate income housing report" or "report" means the report described in
611   Subsection (2)(a).
612          (d) "Moderate income housing strategy" means a strategy described in Subsection
613   17-27a-403(2)(b)(ii).
614          (e) "Specified county" means a county of the first, second, or third class, which has a
615   population of more than 5,000 in the county's unincorporated areas.
616          (2)(a) Beginning in 2022, on or before October 1 of each calendar year, the legislative
617   body of a specified county shall annually submit a written moderate income housing report to




                                                    -22-
       Enrolled Copy                                                                             S.B. 174
618   the division.

619          (b) The moderate income housing report submitted in 2022 shall include:
620          (i) a description of each moderate income housing strategy selected by the specified
621   county for implementation; and
622          (ii) an implementation plan.
623          (c) The moderate income housing report submitted in each calendar year after 2022
624   shall include:

625          (i) the information required under Subsection (2)(b);
626          (ii) a description of each action, whether one-time or ongoing, taken by the specified
627   county during the previous fiscal year to implement the moderate income housing strategies
628   selected by the specified county for implementation;
629          (iii) a description of each land use regulation or land use decision made by the
630   specified county during the previous fiscal year to implement the moderate income housing
631   strategies, including an explanation of how the land use regulation or land use decision
632   supports the specified county's efforts to implement the moderate income housing strategies;
633          (iv) a description ofany barriers encountered by the specified county in the previous
634   fiscal year in implementing the moderate income housing strategies; and
635          (v) information regarding the number of intemal and external or detached accessory
636   dwelling units located within the specified county for which the specified county:
637          (A) issued a building permit to construct; or
638          (6) issued a business license to rent;
639          (vi) a description of how the market has responded to the selected moderate income
640   housing strategies, including the number ofentitled moderate income housing units or other
641   relevant data; and
642          (vii) any recommendations on how the state can support the specified county in
643   implementing the moderate income housing strategies.
644          (d) The moderate income housing report shall be in a form:
645          (i) approved by the division; and




                                                      23-
       S.B. 174                                                                         Enrolled Copy
646             (ii) made available by the division on or before July 1 ofthe year in which the report is
647   required.
648             (3) Within 90 days after the day on which the division receives a specified county's
649   moderate income housing report, the division shall:
650             (a) post the report on the division's website;
651             (b) send a copy ofthe report to the Department of Transportation, the Governor's
652   Office ofPlanning and Budget,the association ofgovermnents in which the specified county is
653   located, and, ifthe unincorporated area ofthe specified county is located within the boundaries
654   ofa metropolitan plaiming organization, the appropriate metropolitan plaiming organization;
655   and

656             (c) subject to Subsection (4),review the report to determine compliance with
657   Subsection (2).
658             (4)(a) The report described in Subsection (2)(b)complies with Subsection(2)ifthe
659   report:
660             (i) includes the information required under Subsection (2)(b);
661             (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified county made plans to implement
662   three or more moderate income housing strategies; and
663             (iii) is in a form approved by the division.
664             (b) The report described in Subsection(2)(c)complies with Subsection(2)ifthe
665   report:
666             (i) includes the information required under Subsection (2)(c);
667             (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified county made plans to implement
668   three or more moderate income housing strategies;
669             (iii) is in a form approved by the division; and
670             (iv) provides sufficient information for the division to:
671          (A) assess the specified county's progress in implementing the moderate income
672   housing strategies;
673             (B) monitor compliance with the specified county's implementation plan;




                                                       -24
       Enrolled Copy                                                                           S.B. 174
674          (C) identify a clear correlation between the specified county's land use decisions and
675   efforts to implement the moderate income housing strategies; and
676          (D) identify how the market has responded to the specified county's selected moderate
677   income housing strategies.
678          (5)(a) A specified county qualifies for priority consideration under this Subsection(5)
679   if the specified county's moderate income housing report:
680          (i) complies with Subsection(2); and
681          (ii) demonstrates to the division that the specified county made plans to implement five
682   or more moderate income housing strategies.
683          [(b) The following apply to a specified county described in Subsection(5)(a) during the
684   fiscal yeai'immediately following the fiscal year in which the lepoit is requhed:]
685          [(i) the Transpoitation Commission may give priority consideration to transportation
686   projects located within the unincorporated areas ofthe specified county in accordance with
687   Subsection 72-l-304(3)(c); and]
688          [(ii) the Governor's Office ofriamiing and Budget may give priority consideration for
689   awarding financial gi'ants to the specified county under the COVID-19 Local Assistance
690   Matching Grant Progi'am in accordance with Subsection 63J-4-802(6).]
691          (b) The Transportation Commission mav give priority consideration to transportation
692   projects located within the boundaries ofa specified county described in Subsection (5)(a)

693   during the fiscal year immediately following the fiscal year in which the report is required, in

694   accordance with Subsection 72-l-304(3)(c).

695          (c) Upon determining that a specified county qualifies for priority consideration under
696   this Subsection (5),the division shall send a notice ofprioritization to the legislative body of
697   the specified county^ and the Department ofTransportation[, and the Governor's Office of
698   Planning and Budget].
699          (d) The notice described in Subsection (5)(c) shall:
700          (i) name the specified county that qualifies for priority consideration;
701          (ii) describe the funds or projects for which the specified county qualifies to receive




                                                      25
        S.B. 174                                                                        Enrolled Copy

702   priority consideration;
703          (iii) specify the fiscal year during which the specified county qualifies for priority
704   consideration; and
705          (iv) state the basis for the division's determination that the specified county qualifies
706   for priority consideration.
707          (6)(a) Ifthe division, after reviewing a specified county's moderate income housing
708   report, determines that the report does not comply with Subsection (2), the division shall send a
709   notice ofnoncompliance to the legislative body ofthe specified county.
710          (b) The notice described in Subsection (6)(a) shall:
711          (i) describe each deficiency in the report and the actions needed to cure each
712   deficiency;
713          (ii) state that the specified county has an opportunity to cure the deficiencies within 90
714   days after the day on which the notice is sent; and
715          (iii) state that failure to cure the deficiencies within 90 days after the day on which the
716   notice is sent will result in ineligibility for fimds and fees owed under Subsection (7).
717          (7)(a) A specified county is ineligible for fimds and owes a fee under this Subsection
718   (7)ifthe specified county:
719          (i) fails to submit a moderate income housing report to the division; or
720          (ii) fails to cure the deficiencies in the specified county's moderate income housing
721   report within 90 days after the day on which the division sent to the specified county a notice of
722   noncompliance under Subsection (6).
723          (b) The following apply to a specified county described in Subsection(7)(a) during the
724   fiscal year immediately following the fiscal year in which the report is required:
725          (i) the executive director ofthe Department ofTransportation may not program fimds
726   fi'om the Transportation Investment Fund of2005,including the Transit Transportation
727   Investment Fund,to projects located within the unincorporated areas ofthe specified county in
728   accordance with Subsection 72-2-124(6); and
729          [(ii) the Governor's Office ofPlanning and Budget may not award financial grants to




                                                       26
        Enrolled Copy                                                                             S.B. 174
730   the specified comity under the COVID-19 Local Assistance Matching Grant Program in
731   accordaucc with Subsection 6jJ-4-802(7)]
732          (ii) beginning with the report submitted in 2024, the specified county shall pay a fee to

733   the Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund in the amount of$250 per day that the specified county:

734          (Al fails to submit the report to the division in accordance with this section, beginning

735   the day after the day on which the report was due; or

736          (B) fails to cure the deficiencies in the report, beginning the day after the day by which

737   the cure was required to occur as described in the notice of noncompliance under Subsection

738   (6)\-V, and

739          (iii) beginning with the report submitted in 2025,the specified county shall pay a fee to

740   the Olene Walker Housing Loan Fund in the amount of$500 per day that the specified county,

741   for a consecutive year:

742           ("A") fails to submit the report to the division in accordance with this section, beginning

743   the day after the day on which the report was due: or

744          ("B) fails to cure the deficiencies in the report, beginning the day after the day by which

745   the cure was required to occur as described in the notice of noncompliance under Subsection

746

747          (c) Upon determining that a specified county is ineligible for funds under this
748   Subsection(7), and is required to pay a fee under Subsection (7")(bl. if applicable, the division
749   shall send a notice of ineligibility to the legislative body of the specified county, the
750   Department of Transportation, and the Governor's Office ofPlanning and Budget.
751          (d) The notice described in Subsection (7)(c) shall:
752          (i) name the specified county that is ineligible for funds;
753           (ii) describe the funds for which the specified county is ineligible to receive;
754           (iii) describe the fee the specified county is required to pay under Subsection (7)(b). if

755   applicable;

756           [fiti)]{iy} specify the fiscal year during which the specified county is ineligible for
757   funds; and




                                                      -27-
        S.B. 174                                                                       Enrolled Copy
758          [(iv)](v) state the basis for the division's determination that the specified county is
759   ineligible for flmds.
760          (e) The division may not determine that a specified county that is required to pay a fee

761   under Subsection (7')(h) is in compliance with the reporting requirements ofthis section until

762   the specified county pays all outstanding fees required under Subsection (7)(b') to the Olene

763   Walker Housing Loan Fund, created under Title 35A,Chapter 8,Part 5, Olene Walker Housing

764   Loan Fund.

765          (8) In a civil action seeking enforcement or claiming a violation ofthis section or of
766   Subsection 17-27a-404(5)(c), a plaintiff may not recover damages but may be awarded only
767   injunctive or other equitable relief.
768           Section 8. Section 17-27a-526 is amended to read:

769          17-27a-526. Internal accessory dwelling units.
770          (1) As used in this section:
771          (a) "Intemal accessory dwelling unit" means an accessory dwelling unit created:
772          (i) within a primary dwelling;
773          (ii) within the footprint ofthe primary dwelling described in Subsection (l)(a)(i) at the
774   time the intemal accessory dwelling unit is created; and
775          (iii) for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of30 consecutive days or longer.
776          (b)(i) "Primary dwelling" means a single-family dwelling that:
777          [i^]      is detached; and
778          [(«)]      is occupied as the primary residence ofthe owner ofrecord.
779          (ii) "Primary dwelling" includes a garage ifthe garage:
780          (A) is a habitable space; and

781          (B) is cormected to the primary dwelling by a common wall.

782          (2) In any area zoned primarily for residential use:
783          (a) the use of an intemal accessory dwelling unit is a permitted use;[and]
784          (b) except as provided in Subsections(3)and (4), a county may not establish any
785   restrictions or requirements for the constmction or use ofone intemal accessory dwelling unit




                                                      28-
        Enrolled Copy                                                                           S.B. 174
786   within a primary dwelling, including a restriction or requirement governing:
787           (i) the size of the internal accessory dwelling unit in relation to the primary dwelling;
788           (ii) total lot size;[or]
789           (iii) sh'eet frontagef?]; or
790           (iv) internal connectivity; and

791           (c) a county's regulation of architectural elements for internal accessory dwelling units

792   shall be consistent with the regulation of single-family units, including single-family units

793   located in historic districts.

794           (3) An intemal accessory dwelling unit shall comply with all applicable building,
795   health, and fire codes.

796           (4) A county may:
797           (a) prohibit the installation of a separate utility meter for an intemal accessory dwelling
798   unit;

799           (b) require that an intemal accessory dwelling unit be designed in a manner that does
800   not change the appearance of the primary dwelling as a single-family dwelling;
801           (c) require a primary dwelling:
802           (i) regardless of whether the primary dwelling is existing or new constmction, to
803   include one additional on-site parking space for an intemal accessory dwelling unit,[regardless
804   of whether the primaiy dwelling is existing or new construction] in addition to the parking
805   spaces required under the county's land use ordinance, except that if the county's land use

806   ordinance requires four off-street parking spaces, the county may not require the additional

807   space contemplated under this Subsection (4")(c)('i); and

808           (ii) to replace any parking spaces contained within a garage or carport if an internal
809   accessory dwelling unit is created within the garage or carport and is habitable space;
810           (d) prohibit the creation of an internal accessory dwelling unit within a mobile home as
811   defmed in Section 57-16-3;

812           (e) require the owner of a primary dwelling to obtain a permit or license for renting an
813   intemal accessory dwelling unit;




                                                     -29-
        S.B. 174                                                                          Enrolled Copy
814             (f) prohibit the creation of an internal accessory dwelling unit within a zoning district
815   covering an area that is equivalent to 25% or less ofthe total unincorporated area in the county
816   that is zoned primarily for residential useFth except that the county may not prohibit newlv
817   constructed internal accessory dwelling units that:

818             (i) have a final plat approval dated on or after October 1,2021: and

819             (ii) comply with applicable land use regulations:

820             (g) prohibit the creation of an internal accessory dwelling unit if the primary dwelling
821   is served by a failing septic tank;
822             (h) prohibit the creation ofan internal accessory dwelling unit if the lot containing the
823   primary dwelling is 6,000 square feet or less in size;
824             (i) prohibit the rental or offering the rental ofan intemal accessory dwelling unit for a
825   period ofless than 30 consecutive days;
826             (j) prohibit the rental of an intemal accessory dwelling unit ifthe intemal accessory
827   dwelling unit is located in a dwelling that is not occupied as the owner's primary residence;
828             (k) hold a lien against a property that contains an intemal accessory dwelling unit in
829   accordance with Subsection(5); and
830             (1) record a notice for an intemal accessory dwelling unit in accordance with
831   Subsection (6).
832             (5)(a) In addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available to a county, a
833   county may hold a lien against a property that contains an intemal accessory dwelling unit if:
834             (i) the owner ofthe property violates any ofthe provisions ofthis section or any
835   ordinance adopted imder Subsection (4);
836             (ii) the county provides a written notice of violation in accordance with Subsection
837   (5)(b);
838             (iii) the county holds a hearing and determines that the violation has occurred in
839   accordance with Subsection (5)(d), ifthe owner files a written objection in accordance with
840   Subsection (5)(b)(iv);
841             (iv) the owner fails to cure the violation within the time period prescribed in the




                                                         30-
        Enrolled Copy                                                                                S.B. 174
842   written notice of violation under Subsection (5)(b);
843          (v) the county provides a written notice oflien in accordance with Subsection (5)(c);
844   and

845          (vi) the county records a copy ofthe written notice oflien described in Subsection
846   [(5)(a)(iv)](5)(a)(v) with the county recorder ofthe county in which the property is located.
847          (b) The written notice of violation shall:
848          (i) describe the specific violation;
849          (ii) provide the owner ofthe internal accessory dwelling unit a reasonable opportunity
850   to cure the violation that is:

851          (A) no less than 14 days after the day on which the county sends the written notice of
852   violation, if the violation results firom the owner renting or offering to rent the internal
853   accessory dwelling unit for a period ofless than 30 consecutive days; or
854          (B) no less than 30 days after the day on which the county sends the written notice of
855   violation, for any other violation;[and]
856          (iii) state that if the owner ofthe property fails to cure the violation within the time
857   period described in Subsection (5)(b)(ii), the county may hold a lien against the property in an
858   amount of up to $100 for each day of violation after the day on which the opportunity to cure
859   the violation expires;
860          (iv) notify the owner ofthe property:
861          (A) that the owner may file a written objection to the violation within 14 days after the
862   day on which the written notice of violation is post-marked or posted on the property, and
863          (B) ofthe name and address ofthe county office where the owner may file the written
864   objection;
865          (v) be mailed to:
866          (A) the property's owner ofrecord; and
867          (B) any other individual designated to receive notice in the owner's license or permit
868   records; and

869          (vi) be posted on the property.




                                                        31
        S.B. 174                                                                       Enrolled Copy

870          (c) The written notice oflien shall:
871          (i) comply with the requirements of Section 38-12-102;
872          (ii) describe the specific violation;
873          (iii) specify the lien amount, in an amount of up to $100 for each day of violation after
874   the day on which the opportunity to cure the violation expires;
875          (iv) be mailed to:
876          (A) the property's owner ofrecord; and
877          (B) any other individual designated to receive notice in the owner's license or permit
878   records; and

879          (v) be posted on the property.
880          (d)(i) If an owner of property files a written objection in accordance with Subsection
881   (5)(b)(iv), the county shall:
882          (A) hold a hearing in accordance with Title 52, Chapter 4, Open and Public Meetings
883   Act, to conduct a review and determine whether the specific violation described in the written
884   notice of violation under Subsection (5)(b) has occurred; and
885          (B) notify the owner in writing of the date, time, and location ofthe hearing described
886   in Subsection (5)(d)(i)(A) no less than 14 days before the day on which the hearing is held.
887          (ii) If an owner of property files a written objection under Subsection (5)(b)(iv), a
888   county may not record a lien under this Subsection(5) until the county holds a hearing and
889   determines that the specific violation has occurred.
890          (iii) If the county determines at the hearing that the specific violation has occurred, the
891   county may impose a lien in an amount of up to $100 for each day of violation after the day on
892   which the opportunity to cure the violation expires, regardless of whether the hearing is held
893   after the day on which the opportunity to cure the violation has expired.
894          (e) If an owner cures a violation within the time period prescribed in the written notice
895   of violation under Subsection (5)(b), the county may not hold a lien against the property, or
896   impose any penalty or fee on the owner, in relation to the specific violation described in the
897   written notice of violation under Subsection (5)(b).




                                                     -32-
       Enrolled Copy                                                                           S.B. 174
898          (6)(a) A county that issues, on or after October 1,2021, a permit or license to an
899   owner ofa primary dwelling to rent an internal accessory dwelling unit, or a building permit to
900   an owner ofa primary dwelling to create an internal accessory dwelling unit, may record a
901   notice in the office ofthe recorder ofthe county in which the primary dwelling is located.
902          (b) The notice described in Subsection(6)(a) shall include:
903          (i) a description ofthe primary dwelling;
904          (ii) a statement that the primary dwelling contains an internal accessory dwelling unit;
905   and

906          (iii) a statement that the internal accessory dwelling unit may only be used in
907   accordance with the county's land use regulations.
908          (c) The county shall, upon recording the notice described in Subsection (6)(a), deliver a
909   copy ofthe notice to the owner ofthe intemal accessory dwelling unit.
910          Section 9. Section 17-27a-604.1 is enacted to read:

911          17-27a-604.1. Process for subdivision review and approval.
912          (IHa) As used in this section, an "administrative land use authority" means an

913   individual, board, or commission, appointed or emploved bv a county, including countv staff or

914   a countv planning commission.

915          (b) "Administrative land use authority" does not include a countv legislative body or a

916   member ofa countv legislative body.

917          (2)(a) This section applies to land use decisions arising from subdivision applications

918   for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes.

919          (b) This section does not apply to land use regulations adopted, approved, or agreed

920   upon bv a legislative body exercising land use authority in the review ofland use applications

921   for zoning or other land use regulation approvals.

922          (3) A countv ordinance governing the subdivision ofland shall:

923          (a) comply with this section and establish a standard method and form of application

924   for preliminary subdivision applications and final subdivision applications; and

925          (bl (i) designate a sinRle administrative land use authority for the review of preliminary




                                                     33-
       S.B. 174                                                                       Enrolled Copy
926   applications to subdivide land: or

927          (ii) if the coimtv has adopted an ordinance that establishes a separate procedure for the

928   review and approval ofsubdivisions under Section 17-27a-605, the county may designate a

929   different and separate administrative land use authority for the approval ofsubdivisions under

930   Section 17-27a-605.

931          (4)(a) If an applicant requests a pre-application meeting, the county shall within 15

932   business days after the request schedule the meeting to review the concept plan and give initial

933   feedback.

934          (b) At the pre-application meeting, the county staff shall provide or have available on

935   the county website the following:

936          (i) copies of applicable land use regulations:

937          (ii) a complete list ofstandards required for the project:

938          (iii) preliminary and final application checklists; and

939          (iv) feedback on the concept plan.

940          (5) A preliminary subdivision application shall comply with all applicable county

941   ordinances and requirements ofthis section.

942          (6) An administrative land use authority may complete a preliminary subdivision

943   application review in a public meeting or at a county stafflevel.

944          (7) With respect to a preliminary application to subdivide land, an administrative land

945   use authority may:

946          (a) receive public comment; and

947          (b) hold no more than one public hearing.

948          (8) If a preliminary subdivision application complies with the applicable county

949   ordinances and the requirements of this section, the administrative land use authority shall

950   approve the preliminary subdivision application.

951          (9) A county shall review and approve or deny a final subdivision plat application in

952   accordance with the provisions ofthis section and county ordinances, which:

953          (a) may permit concurrent processing ofthe final subdivision plat application with the




                                                    -34
       Enrolled Copy                                                                            S.B. 174

954   preliminary subdivision plat application: and

955          (b) may not require planning commission or county legislative body approval.

956          (10) If a final subdivision application complies with the requirements ofthis section,

957   the applicable county ordinances, and the preliminary subdivision approval granted under

958   Subsection (9)(a), a county shall approve the final subdivision application.

959          Section 10. Section I7-27a-604.2 is enacted to read:

960          17-27a-604.2. Review of subdivision land use applications and subdivision
961   improvement plans.
962          (1) As used in this section:

963          (a) "Review cycle" means the occurrence of:

964          (i) the applicant's submittal ofa complete subdivision land use application;

965          (ii) the county's review ofthat subdivision land use application;

966          (iii) the county's response to that subdivision land use application, in accordance with

967   this section: and

968          (iv) the applicant's reply to the county's response that addresses each ofthe county's

969   required modifications or requests for additional information.

970          (b) "Subdivision improvement plans" means the civil engineering plans associated with

971   required infrastructure and county-controlled utilities required for a subdivision.

972          (c) "Subdivision ordinance review" means review by a county to verify that a

973   subdivision land use application meets the criteria ofthe county's subdivision ordinances.

974          (d) "Subdivision plan review" means a review ofthe applicant's subdivision

975   improvement plans and other aspects ofthe subdivision land use application to verify that the

976   application complies with county ordinances and applicable standards and specifications.

977          (2) The review cycle restrictions and requirements ofthis section do not apply to the

978   review ofsubdivision applications affecting property within identified geological hazard areas.

979          (3)(a) No later than 15 business days after the day on which an applicant submits a

980   complete preliminary subdivision land use application for a residential subdivision for

981   single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes, the county shall complete the




                                                      35
        S.B. 174                                                                          Enrolled Copy

982    initial review ofthe application, including subdivision improvement plans.

983           (b) A county shall maintain and publish a list ofthe items comprising the complete

984    preliminary subdivision land use application, including:

985           (i) the application;

986           (ii) the owner's affidavit;

987           (iii) an electronic copy of all plans in PDF format;

988           (iv) the preliminary subdivision plat drawings: and

989           (v) a breakdown offees due upon approval ofthe application.

990           (4)(a) A county shall publish a list ofthe items that comprise a complete final

991    subdivision land use application.

992           (b) No later than 20 business days after the day on which an applicant submits a plat,

993    the county shall complete a review ofthe applicant's final subdivision land use application for

994    single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes,including all subdivision plan

995    reviews.

996           (5)(a) In reviewing a subdivision land use application, a county may require:

997           (i) additional information relating to an applicant's plans to ensure compliance with

998    county ordinances and approved standards and specifications for construction of public

999    improvements: and

1000          (ii) modifications to plans that do not meet current ordinances, applicable standards, or

1001   specifications or do not contain complete information.

1002          (b) A county's request for additional information or modifications to plans under

1003   Subsections (5)(a)(i) or (ii) shall be specific and include citations to ordinances, standards, or

1004   specifications that require the modifications to plans, and shall be logged in an index of

1005   requested modifications or additions.

1006          (c) A county may not require more than four review cycles.

1007          (d)(i) Subject to Subsection (5)(d)(ii), unless the change or correction is necessitated

1008   by the applicant's adjustment to a plan set or an update to a phasing plan that adjusts the

1009   infirastructure needed for the specific development, a change or correction not addressed or




                                                        36-
         Enrolled Copy                                                                            S.B. 174
1010   referenced in a county's plan review is waived.

1011          (ii) A modification or correction necessary to protect public health and safety or to

1012   enforce state or federal law may not be waived.

1013          (iii) If an applicant makes a material change to a plan set the county has the discretion

1014   to restart the review process at the first review ofthe final application, but only with respect to

1015   the portion ofthe plan set that the material change substantivelv effects.

1016          (e) If an applicant does not submit a revised plan within 20 business days after the

1017   county requires a modification or correction, the county shall have an additional 20 business
1018   days to respond to the plans.

1019          (6^) After the applicant has responded to the final review cycle, and the applicant has

1020   complied with each modification requested in the county's previous review cycle, the county
1021   may not require additional revisions ifthe applicant has not materially changed the plan, other
1022   than changes that were in response to requested modifications or corrections.

1023          (7)(a) In addition to revised plans, an applicant shall provide a written explanation in
1024   response to the county's review comments,identifying and explaining the applicant's revisions
1025   and reasons for declining to make revisions, if any.

1026          (bl The applicant's written explanation shall be comprehensive and specific, including

1027   citations to applicable standards and ordinances for the design and an index ofrequested
1028   revisions or additions for each required correction.

1029          (c) If an applicant fails to address a review comment in the response,the review cycle
1030   is not complete and the subsequent review cycle may not begin until all comments are
1031   addressed.

1032          (8)(a) If, on the fourth or final review, a county fails to respond within 20 business

1033   days, the county shall upon request ofthe property owner,and within 10 business days after
1034   the day on which the request is received:

1035          (i) for a dispute arising from the subdivision improvement plans, assemble an appeal

1036   panel in accordance with Subsection 17-27a-507(5Xd)to review and approve or deny the final
1037   revised set of plans: or




                                                       -37-
         S.B. 174                                                                        Enrolled Copy

1038          (ii) for a dispute arising from the subdivision ordinance review, advise the applicant, in

1039   writing, of the deficiency in the application and ofthe right to appeal the determination to a

1040   designated appeal authority.

1041           Section 11. Section 17-27a-604.9 is enacted to read:

1042           17-27a-604.9. Effective dates of Sections 17-27a-604.1 and 17-27a-604.2.

1043          (1") Except as provided in Subsection (2), Sections 17"27a-604.1 and 17-27a-604.2 do

1044   not apply until December 31, 2024.

1045          (2) Sections 17-27a-604.1 and 17-27a-604.2 do not apply until February 1,2024 for:

1046          (a) a specified county, as defined in Section 17-27a-408:

1047          (b) a county that is a voting member of the Wasatch Front Regional Council, including:

1048          (i) Davis County;

1049          (ii) Morgan County;

1050          (iii) Salt Lake County;

1051          (iv) Tooele County; and

1052          (v) Weber County; and

1053          (c) a county that is a member of the Moimtainland Association of Governments,
1054   including:

1055          (i) Summit County;

1056          (ii) Utah County; and

1057          (iii) Wasatch County.

1058           Section 12. Section 17-27a-608 is amended to read:

1059           17-27a-608. Subdivision amendments.

1060          (1)(a) A fee owner of a lot, as shown on the last county assessment roll, in a plat that
1061   has been laid out and platted as provided in this part may file a written petition with the land
1062   use authority to request a subdivision amendment.
1063          (b) Upon filing a written petition to request a subdivision amendment under Subsection
1064   (l)(a), the owner shall prepare and, if approved by the land use authority, record a plat in
1065   accordance with Section 17-27a-603 that:




                                                      -38-
        Enrolled Copy                                                                            S.B. 174
1066          (i) depicts only the portion ofthe subdivision that is proposed to be amended;
1067          (ii) includes a plat name distinguishing the amended plat from the original plat;
1068          (iii) describes the differences between the amended plat and the original plat; and
1069          (iv) includes references to the original plat.
1070          (c) If a petition is filed under Subsection (l)(a), the land use authority shall provide
1071   notice ofthe petition by mail, email, or other effective means to each affected entity that
1072   provides a service to an owner ofrecord ofthe portion ofthe plat that is being amended at least
1073   10 calendar days before the land use authority may approve the petition for a subdivision
1074   amendment.

1075          (d) Ifa petition is filed under Subsection (l)(a), the land use authority shall hold a
1076   public hearing within 45 days after the day on which the petition is filed if:
1077          (i) any owner within the plat notifies the county ofthe owner's objection in writing
1078   within 10 days of mailed notification; or
1079          (ii) a public hearing is required because all ofthe owners in the subdivision have not
1080   signed the revised plat.
1081          (e) A land use authority may not approve a petition for a subdivision amendment under
1082   this section unless the amendment identifies and preserves any easements owned by a culinary
1083   water authority and sanitary sewer authority for existing facilities located within the
1084   subdivision.

1085          (2) The public hearing requirement of Subsection (l)(d) does not apply and a land use
1086   authority may consider at a public meeting an owner's petition for a subdivision amendment if:
1087          (a) the petition seeks to:
1088          (i) join two or more ofthe petitioning fee owner's contiguous lots;
1089          (ii) subdivide one or more ofthe petitioning fee owner's lots, ifthe subdivision will not
1090   result in a violation ofa land use ordinance or a development condition;
1091          (iii) adjust the lot lines of adjoining lots or between a lot and an adjoining parcel ifthe
1092   fee owners ofeach ofthe adjoining properties join the petition, regardless of whether the
1093   properties are located in the same subdivision;




                                                      -39
         S.B. 174                                                                          Enrolled Copy
1094             (iv) on a lot owned by the petitioning fee owner, adjust an internal lot restriction
1095   imposed by the local political subdivision; or
1096             (v) alter the plat in a manner that does not change existing boundaries or other
1097   attributes oflots within the subdivision that are not:

1098             (A) owned by the petitioner; or
1099             (B) designated as a common area; and
1100             (b) notice has been given to adjoining property owners in accordance with any
1101   applicable local ordinance.
1102             (3) A petition imder Subsection(l)(a) that contains a request to amend a public street
1103   or county utility easement is also subject to Section 17-27a-609.5.
1104             (4) A petition under Subsection (l)(a)that contains a request to amend an entire plat or
1105   a portion ofa plat shall include:
1106             (a) the name and address ofeach owner ofrecord ofthe land contained in:
1107             (i) the entire plat; or
1108             (ii) that portion ofthe plan described in the petition; and
1109             (b) the signature of each owner who consents to the petition.
1110             (5)(a) The owners ofrecord ofadjoining properties where one or more ofthe
1111   properties is a lot may exchange title to portions ofthose properties if the exchange oftitle is
1112   approved by the land use authority as a lot line adjustment in accordance with Subsection
1113   (5)(b).
1114             (b) The land use authority shall approve [an exchange of title] a lot line adjustment
1115   under Subsection(5)(a)if the exchange oftitle will not result in a violation ofany land use
1116   ordinance.

1117             (c) If[an exchange of title] a lot line adjustment is approved under Subsection (5)(b):
1118             (i) a notice oflot line adjustment approval shall be recorded in the office ofthe county
1119   recorder which:

1120             (A) is [executed] approved by[each owner included m the exchange and by] the land
1121   use authority; and




                                                          40
        EnroUed Copy                                                                                S.B. 174
1122          [(D) contains an acknowledgment for each paity executing the notice in accordance
1123   with the provisioiis ofTitle 57, Chapter 2a, Recognition of Ackuowlcdgments Act;-apd]
1124          [fe)]      recites the legal descriptions of both the properties and the properties
1125   resulting from the exchange of title; and
1126          (ii) a document ofconveyance oftitle reflecting the approved change shall be recorded
1127   in the office ofthe county recorder [with an amended plat].
1128          (d) A notice of approval recorded under this Subsection(5)does not act as a
1129   conveyance oftitle to real property and is not required to record a document conveying title to
1130   real property.
1131          (6)(a) The name ofa recorded subdivision may be changed by recording an amended
1132   plat making that change, as provided in this section and subject to Subsection (6)(c).
1133          (b) The surveyor preparing the amended plat shall certify that the surveyor:
1134          (i) holds a license in accordance with Title 58, Chapter 22, Professional Engineers and
1135   Professional Land Surveyors Licensing Act;
1136          (ii)(A) has completed a survey ofthe property described on the plat in accordance with
1137   Section 17-23-17 and has verified all measurements; or

1138          (B) has referenced a record ofsurvey map ofthe existing property boundaries shown
1139   on the plat and verified the locations ofthe boundaries; and
1140          (iii) has placed monuments as represented on the plat.
1141          (c) An owner ofland may not submit for recording an amended plat that gives the
1142   subdivision described in the amended plat the same name as a subdivision recorded in the
1143   county recorder's office.
1144          (d) Except as provided in Subsection (6)(a), the recording ofa declaration or other
1145   document that purports to change the name ofa recorded plat is void.
1146          Section 13. Section 631-2-210 is amended to read:

1147          631-2-210. Repeal dates: Title 10.
1148          On January 1.2025, Section 10-9a-604.9 is repealed.

1149          Section 14. Section 631-2-217 is amended to read:




                                                      -41
         S.B, 174                                                                       Enrolled Copy

1150           631-2-217. Repeal dates: Title 17.
1151           [(1) Title 17, Chapter 35b, Consolidation of Local Government Units, is repealed


1153           (1) On January 1. 2022. Title 17, Chapter 35b. Consolidation of Local Government

1154    Units, is repealed.

1155           [(2) Oil Januaiy 1,2028, Subsection I7-52a-103(3), requiring ccitaiii counties to
1156    initiate a change ofform of govcrimicut process by July 1,2018, is repealed.]
i i57          [i^]      On June 1, 2022:
1158           (a) Section 17-52a-104 is repealed;
1159           (b) in Subsection 17-52a-301(3)(a), the language that states "or under a provision
1160    described in Subsection 17-52a-104(l)(b) or (2)(b)," is repealed; and
1161           (c) Subsection 17-52a-301(3)(a)(iv), regarding the first initiated process, is repealed.
1162           (3) On January 1.2025, Section i7-27a-604.9 is repealed.

1163           (4) On January 1, 2028, Subsection 17-52a-103('3'), requiring certain counties to initiate

1164    a change ofform of government process by July 1, 2018, is repealed.




                                                      -42-
