                                   ORDINANCE NO.2024-23


  AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,AMENDING
                       TITLE 2.70.020 OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY CODE


WHEREAS,Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the "City") authority to
enact ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council(the "City Council") considers necessary
or appropriate for the health,safety, and welfare of the City; and

WHEREAS,the City Council has previously adopted the Bluffdale City Code 2.70.020
related to the Audit Committee for the City of Bluffdale; and

WHEREAS,the City Council has determined that there is a need to amend Bluffdale City
Code 2.70.020 as indicated in Exhibit A.


NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH:


SECTION 1. Enactment. The City Council hereby enacts and adopts the amendments to Title
2.70.020 of the Bluffdale City Code shown on Exhibit A and incorporated by this reference.

SECTION 2. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances, resolutions, policies, or
zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent herewith they are hereby
amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be amended to comply with
the provisions hereof,they are hereby repealed.

SECTION 3. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable,such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent
provision, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

        PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
ON THIS ii^'DAY OF                         20^,BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:
                                                    YES     NO      ABSTAIN        ABSENT


                      CouncilmemberAston
                      Councilmember Austin
                      Councilmember Crockett          yX
                      Councilmember Lord              ly
                      Councilmember Wilding
               Mayor Hall (tie only)


Mayor:              'i^dikeL-
         Natalie/. Hall
                                       Attest:
                                                     cy /»■
                                                 City Recorder
          ."rr   V *•■•.:• > .J-




/0/Cv>^
NJX f       ■            '
Exhibit A


2.70.020 Mission; Powers And Duties; Operations

A. Purpose: The Audit Committee shall provide independent review and oversight of the City's
financial reporting processes and internal controls.

B. Powers And Duties: As allowed by this chapter,the bylaws and other applicable law, and
consistent with the budget approved by the city council,the Audit Committee shall:

       1. Develop a charter and any other documentation necessary to set forth the Audit
       Committee's operations, including, but not limited to,the selection of a chairperson;
       time, place and mannerof calling of meetings and other procedural matters;
       provided, however,that there shall be at least one meeting each year. The Audit
       Committee shall submit such documents for review and approval by the city council.
       The Audit Committee shall review its charter and other documents no less than once
       every five (5) years to assess their continued adequacy.

       2. Select and recommend to the Citv Council an auditor to audit the City's annual
       financial statements and perform single audits as needed.

       3. Engage the audit firm each vear to perform the annual audit of the Citv's financial
       statements and anv single audits as needed.

       32. Establish procedures for the receipt, retention, and treatment of complaints
       regarding the City's accounting and internal controls. Such procedures should
       specifically provide for the confidential, anonymous submission by City employees of
       any such concerns.

       43. Monitor financial controls performed by City management,including, without
       limitation,financial controls designed to detect and prevent management override of
       other financial controls.


       54. Present annually to the city council a written report of how it has discharged its
       duties and responsibilities. This report shall be made public and be accompanied by
       the Audit Committee's charter. The report shall include a specific statement that the
       Audit Committee has discussed the financial statements(a) with management;(b)
       with the City's independent auditors in private; and (c) privately between Audit
       Committee members. The report shall also state that the Audit Committee members
       believe that the financial statements are fairly presented to the extent such a
       determination can be made solely on the basis of such conversations.
C. other Duties: Members of the Audit Committee shall also serve on the Budget Review
Committee.


D. Accounting, Budget Provisions: Prior to March 1 of each year,the Audit Committee shall
submit a proposed budget to the city manager for the upcoming fiscal year for the audit or for
other related costs necessary for the committee to fulfill its duties. The Audit Committee's
budget shall only include adequate funds to allow it to engage the services offinancial
experts,legal counsel,and other professionals as necessary.
