                                  CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
                                   ORDINANCE NO. 2024-11


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING
BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TITLE 14.10.020 AND 14.20.020


WHEREAS,Utah Code§ 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale(the "City")authority to enact
ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council (the "City Council") considers necessary or
appropriate for the health, safety, and welfare of the City; and

WHEREAS, the City has enacted Title 14.10.020 and 14.20.020 of the Bluffdale City Code;
and


WHEREAS, the City has determined that amendments to Title 14.10.020 and 14.20.020 of
the Bluffdale City Code are necessary and desirable; and

WHEREAS,the Planning Commission has reviewed and made a recommendation to the
City Council concerningthe proposed amendments;and

WHEREAS,the City Council finds it is in the best interest of the City to enact the
amendments to Title 14.10.020 and 14.20.020.


NOW,THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH:


SECTION 1. Amendment. Bluffdale City Code is hereby amended as shown on Exhibit A.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words ofthis Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 3. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances, resolutions, policies, or
zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent herewith they are hereby
amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be amended to comply with the
provisions hereof, they are hereby repealed.

SECTION 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,ON THIS
^DAY OF                         20_2^, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:
                                              YES / NO       ABSTAIN    ABSENT

                    Councilmember Aston
                    Councilmember Austin
                    Councilmember Crockett
                    Councilmember Lord
                    Councilmember Wilding
                    Mayor Hall (tie only)


Mayor:                                        Attest:

         NataUex. Hall                                  City Recorder



                                  CORPORATE
Exhibit A
14.10.020 Findings

   1. The City finds that increasing the number of unrelated persons who may live together
      in a single dwelling from four (4) unrelated persons to fwe-eight (8l unrelated
      handicapped persons in a residential dwelling is reasonable and necessary to help
      ameliorate the most common handicaps encountered by the City's residents.
   2. The City further finds that it is reasonable and necessary to provide a mechanism
      whereby the handicapped can request further accommodations through the processes
      outlined in this Title.


14.20.020 Residential Zone Regulations

   1. Permitted Uses. The table of permitted, conditional, or not permitted uses for
      residential zones Is found in BCC 11.35.030. A facility shall be a permitted use in any
      zone where a Group Living Arrangement is allowed as a permitted or conditional use,
      subject to the same development standards as are applied to Group Living
      Arrangements in this Title and Title 11. In determiningwhether a Group Living
      Arrangement is allowed,only those uses currently and presently allowed by ordinance
      shall be considered; variances, prior accommodations, pre-existing nonconforming
      buildings, or pre-existing nonconforming uses shall not be considered.
   2. Maintain Residential Character of Facility. A facility located in a residential zone shall
      be capable of use as a facility without structural or landscaping alterations that would
      change the structure's residential character or appearance. Any new or remodeled
      structure constructed for use as a facility shall be of a size, scale, and design that is in
      harmony with other residential uses in the vicinity and shall not create a fundamental
      change in the character of the residential neighborhood in which it is proposed to be
      located.
   3. Occupying Restrictions. The facility shall not house more than five-eight (58) persons
      with a handicap.
   4. Voluntary Residency. Residency in the facility shall be on a strictly voluntary basis and
      not a part of, or in lieu of, confinement, rehabilitation, ortreatment in either a
      correctional facility or a condition of probation or parole. A facility shall not include
      any persons referred by the Utah state departmentof corrections or any adult or
      juvenile court.
   5. Distance Restrictions. No Group Living Arrangement shall be located within one-half
      (1/2) mite of another Group Living Arrangement. Measurement shall be in a straight
      line between the closest property lines of the lots/parcels, whether located in the City,
      County, State, or a surrounding municipality.
