                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE,UTAH

                                ORDINANCE NO.2024-24


AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 11.160.140 OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TO
ALLOW FENCES UP TO SIX FEET IN HEIGHT IN FRONT YARDS FOR RESIDENTIAL LOTS
THAT HAVE UNDERGONE A CHANGE IN CONFIGURATION FOLLOWING APPROVAL OF A
SUBDIVISION


WHEREAS,the Bluffdale City Council held a public meeting on July 16,2024,and directed
Staff to propose amendments to the Bluffdale City Code to allow additional fencing height
in front yards for residential lots that have been impacted by subdivisions;

WHEREAS,Section 11.160.140 of the Bluffdale City Code outlines the maximum heights
allowed for fences located in residential front yards;

WHEREAS,the City proposes amendments to Section 11.160.140 of the Bluffdale City Code
to allow fences up to six feet(6') in height in front yards of residential lots that have
undergone a change in configuration following approval of a subdivision;

WHEREAS,a notice of public hearing for the proposed amendments was provided
pursuant to the Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code;

WHEREAS,on October 2,2024,the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing and
unanimously forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposed Text Amendment to
the City Council.

NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:


       Section 1.     Adoption. Ordinance 2024-24 is hereby adopted, amending Section
11.160.140 of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

       Section 2. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances,
resolutions, policies, or zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent
herewith they are hereby amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be
amended to comply with the provisions hereof,they are hereby repealed.

       Section 3. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid or unenforceable,such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision,and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
portion of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance
shall be severable.
      Section 4.     Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: November 13,2024



                                                 CITYOFBLUFFDALE




                                                          aiie C. Ha


ATTEST:                                 [seal]


                                                     CORPORATE

City Recorder




Voting by the City Council:       Yes    No      Absent


       Councilmember Aston
       Councilmember Austin
       Councilmember Crockett
       Councilmember Lord
       Councilmember Wilding
       Mayor Hall (tie only)
     S           v\
Ap;/ .        v,0^i
ft               S
% 'i     jm   S d
%
\
EXH IBIT A
11.160.140 Fences And Walls


   1.   Residential Zones:
           1. No fence, wall, living fence or similar device extending into or enclosing
              all or part of the front setback shall be constructed or maintained at a
              height greater than forty two inches(42"), unless the fence is chainlink or
              another open mesh fence. The fence must remain nonsight obscuring
              (defined as at least 70 percent open space when viewed from either side
              of the fence) and shall not exceed sixty inches (60") in height. The
              permitted height of any fence,wall,living fence or similar sight obscuring
              device situated within any other portion of a lot shall be eight feet (8'),
              except where the vision of an adjacent driveway may be affected.
                  1. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a fence enclosing all or part of a
                      front setback on a parcel or lot which fronts directly on an existing
                      arterial road as shown on the most current adopted City of
                      Bluffdale Transportation Plan, is allowed to construct a sight
                      obscuring or solid fence up to six (6') in height, except where the
                      vision of an adjacent driveway may be affected.
                  2. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a parcel or lot which has been
                      determined to have changed front yard orientation to a newlv
                      created right of wav through an approved subdivision plat AND
                      which had an existing dwelling at the time of subdivision may
                      construct fencing within the front setback in accordance with the
                     orientation of the existing dwelling up to six feet fS'l in height. All
                     requirements for clear view for intersections and adjacent
                     driveways shall still apply.
           2. Any fence that may affect the vision of an adjacent driveway shall satisfy
              the following conditions:
                  1. The fence shall not be sight obscuring and shall be constructed of
                     chainlink or other similar material and be no less than seventy
                     percent(70%)open space;or
                 2. The fence shall be terminated no less than twenty feet(20')in each
                     direction from the front corner of the lot adjacent to the affected
                     driveway,thus forming a line of sight triangle; or
                 3. The fence shall be no more than forty two inches(42")in height at
                     a point no less than twenty feet (20') in each direction from the
                     front corner of the lot adjacent to the affected driveway, thus
                     forming a line of sight triangle; or
                 4. The owner of the affected driveway may, in writing, waive the
                     fencing restrictions for the adjacent lot; provided, that it can be
                     shown that the backing of vehicles can be accomplished in a safe
                      manner.
3. Applicants for a fence greater than eight feet(8')in height,where allowed,
   must receive a conditional use permit in accordance with chapter 20 of
   this title. Minimum fence height for multi-family units is six feet (6').
