                                  ORDINANCE NO.2024-12


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING
BLUFFDALE CITY CODE SECTIONS 11.20, 11,160.180, 11.160.250, 12.80.020, 12.80.030,
AND THE ADOPTION OF A NEW LAND USE AND CITY STANDARDS DRAWING RELATED TO THE
PRIVATE RIGHTS OF WAY, PRE-EXISTING PRIVATE RIGHTS OF WAY, SHARED DRIVEWAYS,
AND ASSOCIATED ADMINISTRATIVE PROVISIONS


WHEREAS,Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale(the "City") authority to enact
ordinances that the Biuffdale City Council (the "City Council") considers necessary or
appropriate for the health,safety, and welfare of the City; and

WHEREAS,the City has enacted various sections of the Biuffdale City Code related to the
development and standards for various types of private rights of way; and

WHEREAS,the City has determined that amendments to Titles 11 and 12 of the Biuffdale
City Code and to the City's adopted standards drawings are necessary and desirable; and

WHEREAS,the Planning Commission has reviewed and made a recommendation to the
City Council concerning the proposed amendments;and

WHEREAS,the City Council finds it is in the best interest of the City to enact the proposed
amendments to the City's land use ordinances and standards.

NOW,THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH;


SECTION 1. Amendment. Biuffdale City Code is hereby amended as shown on Exhibit A and
the adopted Biuffdale City Standards are hereby amended as shown in Exhibit B to add an
additional private right of way standard detail.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 3. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances, resolutions, policies, or
zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent herewith they are hereby
amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be amended to comply with the
provisions hereof,they are hereby repealed.

SECTION 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,ON THIS
22nd DAY OF MAY,2024, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:



                                               YES ,NO        ABSTAIN    ABSENT
                      Councilmember Aston
                      Councilmember Austin
                      Councilmember Crockett
                      Councilmember Lord
                      Councilmember Wilding
                      Mayor Hall {tie only)


Mayor:                                         Attest:

         NataliejZ. Hall                                 City Recorder
Exhibit A - Bluffdale City Code Amendment
Exhibit A - Private Right of Way Amendments



11.160.180 Shared Driveways


   1.—Scope: Except as othonviso provided in the Clty'o land use ordinancos, no building

      driveway other than a dedicated
      right of way.
   aTj^CireumGtancoG Permitting: The creation of or the issuance of a building permit for
      a lot or parcel accessed from a shared driveway may be approved by the Zoning
      AdministratorLand Use Authoritv under the following circumstances:
          1. There exists certain unique circumstances that directly impact the lots or
              parcels to be accessed by the shared driveway as follows:
                  1. The lots or parcels are isolated from any presently existing public
                      streets or private rights of wav and will be isolated from any future
                      public streets or private rights of wav:and
                  2. The property is bounded bvhas certain physical or legal barriers that
                      isolate the proposed lots or parcels which preclude future expansion
                      and development and deny through access to public streets or
                      private rights of wav.
          2. For purposes of this section, physical barriers may include: existing canals
              with recorded easements and rights-of-way that prohibit public access and
              crossing; railroad rights-of-way; terrain that prevents conventional access
              by public streets or private rights of wav: utility easements which prohibit
              street access and crossing; existing developments of improved real property
              or easement restrictions contiguous to the subject property that prohibits
              extension of through public streets or private rights of wav to or from the
              lots or parcels; existing or proposed drainage requirements which include
              storm drain channels, retention/detention ponds, or natural creek beds
              which prohibit public street access or private riaht of wav access: or limited
              access roads which prohibit a public or private street connection.
   SrZRestrictions, Limitations: The creation of or the issuance of a building permit for a
       lot or parcel accessed by a shared driveway approved by the Zoning
       AdministratorLand Use Authoritv shall comply with the following restrictions and
      limitations:
          1. Be located within a Residential R-1-87, R-1-43, R-1-10 or Agricultural A-5
             Zoning District;
          2. The shared driveway shall provide access to a maximum of three (3) lots or
             parcels;
          3. The lot or parcel to be accessed off of the shared driveway meets ail the
             standards and requirements under the City subdivision ordinance and land
             use ordinance;
         4. Required minimum yard setback requirements shall apply to all buildings
            fronting, siding or rearing on the shared driveway or private land and shall
            be measured from the boundary of any such right-of-way nearest the
            building;
         5. The shared driveway has a minimum recorded right-of-way width of at
            least twenty five feet (25') and all weather surface of at least twenty feet
            f20'l which meets al applicable standards of the adopted Fire Code:
         5. The shared driveway shall be improved in compliance with City standards
            and specifications for the number and intensity of lots or parcels served;
         7. The shared driveway shall have-provide a turnaround which complies with
            the all applicable standards of the adopted Fire Code.as determined

         8. No parking is permitted within the shared driveway;
         9. The shared driveway shall only be used to access single-family residences;
         10. Each adjoining lot or parcel using the shared driveway shall have recorded
             ownership or right-of-way access to such driveway or private lane by
             easement or fee title;
         11. All dwellings on the lots or parcels shall have access to a fire hvdrant and
             be within the distance specified bv the adopted Fire Code, but in no case
             greater than five hundred feet (500'l.four hundred foot (400') of a fire hvdrant
             approved by the Fire Department and access to the firo hydrant shall
             complyHvit^h-the-appheable Fire Codes adopted by the City;
         12. The shared driveway abuts and is accessed off of a fully improved and
             dedicated public street or approved private riaht of wav or pre-existina
             private right of wav which meets adopted Citv standards found in BCC
             11.160.250:
         13. The shared driveway is not necessary to be dedicated as a public street to
             accomplish needed and logical street connections, to provide access to
             properties that may otherwise have no access or limited access to the
             detriment of the property, or other purpose determined to be necessary and
             appropriate, as determined bv the Land Use Authoritv with a
             recommendation from Citv Engineer including specific findings.

11.160.250 Development On Preexisting Private Riahts-Of-Wav and Private Rights of Wav

   A. Scope And Applicability: In order to facilitate property rights, fairness, and safety
      within the community, subdivision and lot development on preexisting private
      rights-of-way which do not meetdiffers from the City's adopted tvpical minimum
      residential street standards dimensions may beis allowed under certain limited
      circumstances, and subject to the requirements of this section and other applicable
      ordinances and standards. "Preexisting private rights-of-way" are defined as any
      private right-of-way,legally established to provide access to parcels of land created
      before the adoption of this provision of the City's land use ordinanceprior to
      Januarv 1.2015.
B. Determination Of NccGOGity To Utilize A Prcoxiating Private Right-Of-Way: The City
   reserves all rights to determine where public streets shall be located within the
   community,and may require public streets to be created or continued within
   subdivisions to promote the public health, safety, and welfare and to provide for
   the reasonable development of property within the community. Private rights-of-
   way should net-be utilized juot as a proforonco, but to address-a particular needs in
   limited circumstances where propertv configuration and preexisting private
   rights-of-way limit access to or create barriers to creating new-public streets exist
   as access to developable properties and where public streets are not deemed
   necessary to serve the public's health, safety, and welfare.

   Private rights-of-way, when determined necoGsary as accoss to a propoGod
   development, may also be approved by the Land Use Authority and the Citv
   Engineer for two-and multiple-family dwelling developments, and commercial,
   mixed use, institutional, and industrial uses consistent with applicable provisions
   of this Code,relevant Citv standards,and applicable provisions of the adopted Fire
   Code and shall be located in a manner that does not endanger the public's health,
   safety, and welfare. All development accessing from private rights-of-way shall
   also comply with all applicable subdivision, use permit, and site plan processes.
C. Maximum Number Of Accessing Lots And Through Street Considerations: In any
   residential subdivision or development of parcels on lots of record, a preexisting
   private right-of-way or newlv created private right of wav shall provide access for
   no more than thirty (30) single-family lots, which includes all developable lots or
   parcels in existence before in addition to anv proposed subdivision lots, as
   measured from the closest point of public street access.
LrD.Each newly created private right of wav in a subdivision shall meet the cross
   section and construction standards for private rights of wav shown in ST-7D.
E. All development on pre-existing private rights of wav and newlv created private
   rights of wav shall adhere to the—minimum—rcquircmcntsall applicable
   requirements of the adopted Fire Code, which in some circumstances may impose
   additional safety requirements. Lots of record on. which otherwise meet all zoning
   requirements, do not require a subdivision or lot line adjustment, and were
   established leoallv. shall meet the requirements of the adopted fire code to obtain a
   building permit for a single familv dwelling, regardless of the width and length of
   the pre-existing private right of wav.
F. Connections to public street networks iPrccxisting pPre-existina private rights of
   and newlv created private rights-of-way which do not meet the City's adopted
   public street standards shall not be utilized as through streets which connect
   adjacent public neighborhood streets. Where it is anticipated to connect
   neighborhood public street networks, streets and rights-of-way shall conform to
   adopted City public street standards.
G. Access and Ownership:Private rights of wav may be owned in common or owned
   whollv or in part bv individual lots or parcels Each adjoining lot or parcel using the
   shared driveway shall have recorded ownership or riqht-of-wav access to such
   driveway or private lane bv easement or fee title:




H. Width And Cross Section: In order to address unique situations which eurrcntly
   exist in the Citv. now New subdivisions which have frontage or gain access on
   preexisting_-private rights-of-way may gain access to their property from the
   preexisting private right-of-way if the right-of-way meets the minimum applicable
   standards of the adopted Fire Code or can be brought into compliance with

   standard of the pre-existing private right of wav from which the new subdivision
   accesses shall require the right-of-way to be paved with asphalt or concrete to the
   minimum adopted Fire Code accessway width requirements, in addition to all
   other                applicablefire                code                 provisions.


I. New subdivision standards. From the point where the new subdivision property
   boundary fronts or gains access from an pre-existing private right-of-way, the
   minimum right-of-way width and cross section design of a newlv created private
   right-of-way shall meet the City's adopted street dimensional and ptructural
   requirements for public atrootsstandards for private streets found in standard ST-
   7D. A new public street cannot gain access pre-existina private right of wav or
   newlv created private right of wav., regardless of whether the new subdivision
   street is approved as public or private.. In cases where the proposed subdivision is
   single loaded on one side of a preexisting private right of way, the proposed
   subdivision must conform to the subdivision requirements of providing right of
   way for a minimum of one-half (1/2) width of a standard street, plus ton feet-(tQ');
   consistent     with    the     City's    subdivision    ordinance     requirements.

   Development standards for nonisingle_-family lots, developments, or parcels
   accessing from anv tvpe of private right of wav shall be determined by first
   adhering to the minimum applicable standards of the adopted Fire Code; secondly,
   by a traffic analysis prepared by a licensed professional engineer; and finally, by
   general considerations found in the City's use permit, site plan, parking, and
   subdivision ordinances, and other applicable adopted standards as applicable.
   When it is determined that a private right-of-way is not necessary or desired and is
   not allowed for access to a development, all street rights-of-way shall be
   constructed as public streets and shall comply with all applicable adopted public
   street standards.


   0:
           Compliance With Standards And Specifications: Each newly created private
   right-of-way shall be fully paved and the structural pavement section shall be
   constructed in compliance with the City of Bluffdale development standards and
   technical specifications and a geotechnical analysis of the load bearing capacity of
   the soils under the proposed roadway, as-if required by the City's standards.
   Enginoor. All private right-of-way improvements shall be completed and inspected
   for compliance with the approved plans prior to any applicant applying for a
   building permit. Drainage from the private right-of-way shall be provided for in
   accordance with City standards and ordinances.
FtKj       Underground Utilities To Provide Required Public Utility Easements: Water
   and stormwater utilities underneath a private right-of-way shall provide recorded
   public easements as necessary for storm drain, culinary and secondary water
   utilities. In some cases, certain infrastructure may be deemed private utilities for
   ownership and maintenance purposes, at the discretion of the Citvin accordance
    with City standards. The City shall retain the right to require public utility and
    drainage easements to be recorded on private rights-of-way as a condition of
   subdivision or building permit approval, as the case may be. Utilities under a
    private right-of-way which are provided by special service districts or private or
    public utility companies are subject to their rules and regulations.
GtL        Fire Hydrants And Turnaround: Each private right-of-way more than one
    hundred fifty feet (150') in length shall have fire hydrants and a turnaround OF-a
    hammerhead constructed to standards in theas required bv the -adopted Fire Code;

HtM.       On Street Parking: On street parking shall be prohibited on a private right-
    of-way asphalt cross section less than thirty feet (30') wide. Enforcement of on
   street parking restrictions shall be the responsibility of the owners of the private
    right-of-way. Appropriate signage stating these restrictions shall be required as
    part of the required improvements for any development approved on a private
    right-of-way.
frREasement: Each private right-of-way shall be established or verified in the form of
    an easement acceptable to the Bluffdale City Attorney and recorded with the
    County Recorder.
drO,       Maintenance: An applicant proposing a subdivision or development with
    access from a private right-of-way shall submit a document detailing the method
   for maintaining the private right-of-way, private utilities, required street lighting,
    and any common areas, and estimating the annual expenses therefor, including a
   snow plowing and storage plan. The document shall be in a form acceptable to the
    Bluffdale City Attorney and shall be recorded in the County Recorder's Office.
KtR        Setbacks: Minimum setback requirements shall apply to all buildings
   fronting, siding or rearing on any private right-of-way and shall be measured from
   the boundary of the private right-of-way nearest the building and its extension
   through the applicable lot.
fcQ;       Expansion Of Existing Subdivisions: Residential subdivisions approved
    prior to 2018 (the effective date of this Gectionordinance section^ and which are
     accessed by a private right-of-way may add more residential lots consistent with
     all applicable provisions subsection B of this section.
   M:R       Counciro Process To Require A Public Street; The establishment or
     utilization of a private right-of-way shall be evaluated by the City Engineer and
     may, at the direction of the Citv CouncilLand Use Authoritv with appropriate
     findings, be required to be dedicated as a public street constructed to City street
     standards to make logical street connections or to provide access to abutting
     properties that may otherwise have no access or limited access to the detriment of
     the property.
             Deviations From Strict Compliance; Fire Code Modifications; Length Of
     Single Access Dead End Streets, Curb, Gutter, And Sidewalk, Delay Agreements: In
     certain circumstances, preexisting accessways or unique geographical features
     may limit the ability to strictly comply with the dimensional width standards or
     maximum length for pre-existina private rights-of-way or new private streets.
     Deviations from strict compliance may be approved by the Citv CouncilLand Use
     Authoritv where the Fire Chief Marshal ean-has determined an appropriate Fire
     Code modification which complies with provisions of the International Fire Code
     (IFCl as adopted. Fire Code modifications may include items such as requiring
     automatic fire extinguishing systems, turnouts for passing and evacuation, and
     other appropriate safety items provided for as alternatives in the adopted Fire Code.

       Deviations from strict compliance for City-curb, gutter, and sidewalk roquiromcnts
       may bo made by the City Council with appropriate findings regarding public
       health,—safety,—welfare,—and necessity.—Delay—agreements,—requiring—future
       construction of full improvements may be required by the City Council as
       necessary in such cases.(Ord. 2018 05,3 14 2018)

12.80.030 Streets


   1. Location: Streets shall be located within a subdivision so they connect with
      existing streets. If the adjoining land is zoned for residential use, streets shall be
      located so that the adjacent land may be most efficiently subdivided. Development
      on pre-existing private riahts-of-wav and newlv created private rights of wav is
      permitted in accordance with BCC 11.160.250. Prior to final preliminarv plat
      approval, the city shall make the determination as to whether each street is to be
      public or private. Such status shall be shown on the plat.
         1. Public Sstreet systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out to eliminate or
             avoid new perimeter half streets. The city engineer may authorize a new
             perimeter street, however, the applicant shall be required to improve half
             the width of the right of way plus ten feet (10'), and dedicate the entire
             required street right of way width, if it is in the applicant's control to do so.
         2. Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow road or where the general
             plan, transportation plan, or capital facilities plan indicates plans for
             realignment or widening a road that would require use of some of the land
          in the subdivision, the applicant may be required to improve and dedicate
          such areas for v/idening or realignment of such roads that are necessary
          and for the benefit of the subdivision. Frontage roads and streets shall be
          improved and dedicated at the applicant's expense to the full width as
          required by this title.
2. Cross Section: All streets, whether public or private, shall conform to the cross
   section designated by the city's adopted transportation plan and adopted standards
   and specifications. At present it is tho prcforonco of the city for all Gubdivision
   strooto to be dedicated public strcoto. Ilowovor, if pPrivate street rights of wavs
   mav be proposed and afe-approved if thev meet the Citv's adopted regulations and
   standards for private rights of wav, thcv must be constructed to moot all
   roquiromonts of public stroots in case the city is required to maintain tho otrooto in
   tho future. The land area for streets or right-of-way may not be included in or
   counted toward the minimum area required for a lot,
3. Curbs, Gutters, Sidewalks: Curbs, gutters, and sidewalks shall be installed on
   existing and proposed streets and rights of wav by the applicant in all subdivisions
   in accordance with adopted standards and specifications.
4. Cul-De-Sacs And Dead End Streets: In order to provide adequate emergency access
   to and from the development and proper circulation, two (2) points of ingress and
   egress shall be required in all subdivisions with the following exceptions:
       1. Any subdivision, or portion of a subdivision, which cannot provide two (2)
          points of ingress and egress in a practical manner shall be limited to no
          more than thirty (30) single family residential lots or units or one hundred
          (100) multi-family units; provided, that in no case may the single
          ingress/egress exceed a maximum of one thousand feet (1,000') in length,
          regardless of the number of dwelling units accessing from it, unless
          specifically allowed by other applicable provisions of the city land use
          ordinances or the adopted building or fire codes. This measurement shall
          begin at the point at which a person last has a choice between at least two
          (2) public streets or rights-of-way for travel.
       2. A subdivision, or portion of a subdivision, which will be served by more
          than one (1) point of ingress and egress in the future may receive approval
          for no more than thirty (30) single family residential lots or units or one
          hundred (100) multi-family units until a second point of ingress and egress
          is provided and so indicated on the final plat; provided, that in no case may
          the single ingress/egress exceed a maximum of three thousand feet (3,000')
          in length, regardless of the number of dwelling units accessing from it,
          unless specifically allowed by other applicable provisions of the city land
          use ordinances. This measurement shall begin at the point at which a
          person last has a choice between at least two (2) public streets or rights of
          way for travel. The second access, when built, shall be constructed in
          accordance with adopted standards and specifications,
5. Bridges: Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant shall be constructed at the full
   expense of the applicant without reimbursement from the city. The sharing of
expense for the construction of bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant shall
be in accordance with adopted state law provisions.
Exhibit B - New City Standard Detail ST-7D
                               3                                             1[
                                                   26- MIN.                  '


                                S* MIN.   10.5'MIN. <TYP.)    10.S' MIN. <TYP.)                 l-CONCRETE INBVEWAV
                                                                                                r(np.)
                                           TRAVEL LANE        TRAVEL LANE
                                                _2X                 2%




                                                                                                                                       PRIVATE RIGHT-OF-WAY NOTES
                           ymuy pawmbit sccikm,                                         LANDSCAPES ORMNAGE
                              sa SIRECT OONSTRUC1KM                                     SKAIE (TlA DRAMACE                             1.
                                NOTES 1 * 2 M ST-7A.
                                                                                                                                            USE STANDARD ST-7D FW KVaOPMENTS OF 4 LOTS W GREATER UHUZING A
                                                                                        DESMaO TO SPECFT
                       9-aKH MM OVER O-MCN UTBC                                         CHANNEL SHAPE * UHN&                                PRIVATE RK^fT     WAY.
                       SEE NOTE S MCN SUBCRAOE CBR                                      NO SOD B AUOHES.                                    PRIVATE RIGHTS OF WAY - I^ICATE A PUBUC UTILITY EASEUENT FOR THE AREA
                 VALUES ARE EOUAL TO OR LESS THAN &
                                                                                                                                            WITHIN THE STANDARD CROSS-SECTION TO THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE AS NECESSARY
                                                                                                                                            FOR SUBDIVISION DESIGN*
                                                                                                                                            USE THE RESIDENTIAL STANDARD CROSS-SECTION ST-7B FOR DEVEL(»>M£NTS
                                                                                                                                            INCLUDING MORE THAN 10 LOTS.
           PRIVATE RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR 4 TO 6 LOTS                                                                                             POST "NO PAfflCING* SIGNS ON ALL PRIVATE RlGHT-(^-WAY.
                                                                                                                                            MEET AU. REQUIREMENTS OF THE INTERNATIONAL RRE COOL
                                                                                                                                            WHEN CBR OF SUBGRAK IS EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN 5. PROVIK A GEOTECHMCAL
                                                                                                                                            ANALYSIS AND RECOMMENDATION FOR AIHNTIONAL BASE THICKNESS.



                          »
                          S                             35- MIN.
                                                                                            1


                                5-
                                      5- MIN.     12.5-MIN.(TYP.)     ■   12.5-MIN.(TYP.)
                               MIN.                                                                            •OOHCRCTE ONIVEWAr
                                                                                                                OTP.)

                                                  TRAVEL LANE              TRAVa LANE
                                                      2X                          2X


PEDCSTPMH PA1H



                           UMnuu PAWUQn skton.
                                                                                                         LANDSCAPED DRAMACE
                              SEE SDiECT OONSTOICmW
                               NOTES I & 2 M ST-7A.
                        3-INCH MM OVER O-INCH UTBC.                                                               • SPECVY
                       SEE NOTE e WHEN SUBCRAOE C8R                                                      CHANNa SHAPE * LNNC.
                 VALUES ARE EQUAL TO OR LESS THAN 3.                                                     NO SOD B AaOWEO.




         PRIVATF RIGHT-OF-WAY FOR 7 TO 10 LOTS




                          City of Bluffdale                                                                                         STANDARD DETAIL
                      Engineering Standards
        Approved
                       City Engineer                   Date
                                                                                                                            PRIVATE RIGHT-OF-WAY
                                                     B
                                           bluffdale
                                            2222 West 14000 South
                                            Bluffdale, UT 84065
                                  801.254.2200(o)801.446.8642(f) TTY 7-1-1

                                                STAFF REPORT
                                                 26 April 2024

To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Grant Crowell, AlCP, Community and Economic Development Director

Re:     Private Rights of Wav Land Use Ordinance Text Amendments
        Application No.:    2024-11
        Applicant:          City of Bluffdale
        Locations:          Throughout Bluffdale City
        Zone:               Affects residential subdivision design throughout various zones
        Requests:           To amend various sections of the Bluffdale City Land Use Ordinances(Zoning
                            and Subdivision Ordinances) pertaining to requirements for developing and
                            accessing from pre-existing private rights of way and newly created private
                            rights of way.

SUMMARY & BACKGROUND


In 2014,the City conducted extensive research and had significant discussion regarding allowing
development from private rights of way and pre-existing private rights of way. At that time,the City had
two basic road standards: 1. Use a shared driveway(25' right of way)for up to two lots (and not referred to
as flag lots; or 2. Build a full standard street - public or private - for any subdivision of three or more lots
(52' or 55' right of way at the time, depending on the underlying zone). No middle ground existed for street
or right of way widths in between those two widths and no real option existed for the multitude of
properties who had ample developable land but were located on a pre-existing private right of way,like
14200 South or Pine Hollow,for example. Most pre-existing private rights of way were much less than 52',
many are in the 20' width range.

Private rights of way currently exist in many forms within the City of Bluffdale. We can find gravel roads;
shared private driveways, new and old, paved and not; gated private streets; private commercial accesses;
private access ways to multi-family projects; clustered homes on short private drives; and private alley
ways. Prior to the 2015 ordinance work, modified road standards were found in flexible subdivision tools in
the mixed-use zone,the Clustered Residential Overlay(CRO)zone,Clustered Residential Developments,
the Infill Overlay Zone, and negotiated development agreements. Various approaches to right of way
development exist in the community utilizing these types of tools.

On February 11,2015, Ordinance 2015-01 was adopted which addressed some of these issues. This
ordinance established what is now Bluffdale City Code 11.160.250- Development on Pre-existing Rights of
Way. This provision established that a pre-existing private right of way, which meets the minimum



                                                                  Application 2024-11, Private Rights of Way Text Amendments
                                                                                   May 1, 2024, Planning Commission Meeting
standards of the adopted fire code and is paved can be used as an approved access to get to the boundary
of a new subdivision. This promoted property rights for many landowners and still addressed safety
standards. Other provisions in BCC 11.160.250 emphasized the importance of proper utility easements and
addressed myriad other concerns. However,that ordinance still required a full standard road size (min.52'
ROW and large cul-de-sac,typically)from the beginning of the new subdivision boundary in subdivisions of
three lots or greater. One subdivision,The Highlands at Bluffdale, was recorded in 2019, utilizing this
provision on a pre-existing single access pre-existing private right of way over 1000'in length,for four lots
with a full standard residential street right of way with curb, gutter,and sidewalk created for the lots.

Since the 2015 adoption of the pre-existing right of way provisions,several land use development tools
which allow different street or access way types or related items have been adopted or discussed,such as:
   • 2016: Adoption of enabling legislation for Special Districts, which allow development to propose
        development standards- including road standards
   • 2022: City Council and Planning Commission work session discussion modifications to private lane
        standards
   • 2022: Adoption of General Plan which discusses infill development and context sensitivity related
     to that as potential housing strategies
   • 2023: City Council approved ordinance increasing the number of lots allowed on a private shared
     driveway from two to three
   • March 13,2024: Working draft of current private lane amendments presented to City Council in
     work session with few suggested changes. Staff were directed to move forward through the formal
     review and hearing process for ordinance and Planning Commission review
   • The Infill Overlay Zone has been utilized to create modified private and public cross sections -
     including a new gated street for the Estates at Quail Ridge - in the last several years

The current code amendment proposal modifies standards for development from pre-existing private
rights of way and creates new private right of way standards which provide alternative accessway
development for subdivisions from four to ten lots. Pre-existing private rights of way may still be utilized to
access new subdivisions, pursuant to the 2015 policy. However, where the new subdivision begins, new
subdivision right of way cross-sections would be allowed for private access. No scenario that Staff has
anticipated can be completely addressed in code language as properties, circumstances,and existing legal
rights are all unique in each application we receive, but care was taken to reach an appropriate balance of
property rights, acknowledgment of unique existing Bluffdale land patterns in the large lot areas of the
community while remaining focused on adequate safety.

Many properties within Bluffdale are large enough to develop under current zoning but do not have
available access to existing public streets. In many of these areas,the City may not desire to continue or
create a new public street network for various reasons. It is in these scenarios where the updated
ordinances will primarily apply. If it is determined that a public street is necessary,then the City retains
that right to see development occur in that fashion. That question should always be answered before any
private right of way is approved for development. Typical residential public streets require 52 feet of
dedicated public right of way and proper cul-de-sac design. The existing shared driveway ordinance -
which is being retained - allows three lots to be accessed off a 25 feet driveway (six lots were allowed to
utilize a paved shared driveway standard in the Bluffdale Heights subdivision) which does not have to be
paved. Collector and arterial roads should never be considered for private ownership.

In this proposal,there is a tiered approach to road width, based on the number of units accessing the
facility, ranging from 26 for four or five lots to 35 feet size to ten lots(See Attached Standard ST-7D).
Subdivision in excess of 10 lots will need to meet the standard residential street widths, whether private or



                                                                 Application 2024-11, Private Rights of Way Text Amendments
                                                                                  May 1,2024, Planning Commission Meeting
public. Total number of developable lots off pre-existing private right of way remains at 30,as adopted in
2015.


The definition of Private Street in Bluffdale City Code is as follows:

STREET,PRIVATE: A right-of-way or shared private driveway which has been reserved by dedication unto
the subdivides lot owners,or homeowners'association to be used as a private access to serve property
and complying with the adopted street, private right-of-way,or private shared driveway cross section
standards of the City. All private streets shall be approved by the City and maintained bythesubdivideror
other private entity.

The proposed modifications to the City's private right of way ordinances necessitate changes to various
land use ordinance sections,found in Title 11,Title 12,and the City's adopted standards(See Attached
Exhibit A).

Some key points, modification and policy considerations found in this draft include:
  • Verification that lot size in the underlying zone is exclusive of all right of way types(no change from
      existing ordinances proposed regarding this)
  • Use of the term Land Use Authority where applicable to be consistent with State Code subdivision
        and land use administration requirements
   • Use references to adopted codes rather than position titles where appropriate(ex. Meet adopted
     fire codes, rather than get approval from Fire Chief or Fire Code Official); we currently use a Fire
     Marshal to administer development review with respect to adopted fire codes
   • Limitation on total number of lots on pre-existing private rights of way maintained at 30 lots
   •    New street standards illustration created (ST-7D)
   • Use word applicable vs. minimum [standards]throughout
   • No longer required to build full residential street standard in subdivisions of4-10 lots, if using a
     private right of way
   • No change to 2015 provisions which allow fire code modifications for unique and specific
        circumstances


ANALYSIS
City Staff has drafted this proposal, which has been circulated for review by several departments. With
respect to the individual comments,the spirit of the existing 2015 code,the professional administration of
the adopted Fire Code and the City Council work session have been considered in this draft.

RECOMMENDATION ON PROPOSED TEXT CHANGES


Staff recommends that the Planning Commission forwards a positive recommendation to the City Council
for the Private Rights of Way Land Use Ordinance Text Amendments,application 2024-11, based on the
following findings:

    1. That the current proposal builds on the 2015 private lane code and adds additional options for
       property rights which otherwise meet underlying zoning requirements.
    2. That the City retains the right to require the development of standard public streets when
        circumstances warrant.
    3. The proposed text changes will not be detrimental to the health,safety, or general welfare of
       persons or property within the community.




                                                                  Application 2024-11, Private Rights of Way Text Amendments
                                                                                   May 1,2024,Planning Commission Meeting
MODEL MOTIONS FOR TEXT CHANGES


Sample Motion for a Positive Recommendation -"I move we forward a positive recommendation to the
City Council for the Private Rights of Way Land Use Ordinance Amendments,application 2024-11, based on
the findings presented in the staff report dated April 26,2024,{and as modified by the additional or revised
findings):"

        1.      List any additional findings...

Sample Motion for a Negative Recommendation - "I move we forward a negative recommendation to the
City Council for the Private Rights of Way Land Use Ordinance Amendments,application 2024-11, based on
the following findings:"

        1.      List all findings...




                                                                Application 2024-11, Private Rights of Way Text Amendments
                                                                                 May 1,2024,Planning Commission Meeting
