                                   ORDINANCE NO.2024-22


  AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,UTAH,AMENDING
                       TITLE 1.100.010 OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY CODE


WHEREAS,Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale {the "City") authority to
enact ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council(the "City Council") considers necessary
or appropriate for the health,safety, and welfare of the City; and

WHEREAS,the City Council has previously adopted the Procurement Policy in Bluffdale
City Code 1.00; and

WHEREAS,the City Council has determined that there is a need to amend 1.100.010 as
indicated In Exhibit A hereto with all other parts of 1.100 remaining unchanged.

NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH:


SECTION 1. Enactment. The City Council hereby enacts and adopts the amendments to Title
1.100.010 of the Bluffdale City Code shown on Exhibit A and incorporated by this reference.

SECTION 2. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances, resolutions, policies, or
zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent herewith they are hereby
amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be amended to comply with
the provisions hereof,they are hereby repealed.

SECTION 3. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable,such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent
provision, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective Immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

        PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
ON THIS _&5DAY OF                       .20 IHf. BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

                                                    YES      NO    ABSTAIN        ABSENT


                      Councilmember Aston
                      Councilmember Austin
                      Councilmember Crockett           j/
                      Councilmember Lord               i/^
                      Councilmember Wilding
           Mayor Hall (tie only)


Mayor:     ixipCJ^ oib             Attest:
         Hall                                City Recorder




                       CORPORATE
Exhibit A


1.100.010 General Provisions
   1. Purpose: The underlying purposes of this chapter are:
         1. To ensure fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to,or do conduct
            business with the city.
         2. To provide for the greatest possible economy in city procurement activities.
         3. To foster effective broad based competition within the free enterprise system to
            ensure that the city will receive the best possible service or product at the lowest
            possible price.
         4. To simplify, clarify and modernize the procedure governing procurement by the
            city.
   2. Compliance; Exemptions From Chapter:
         1. It shall be the general policy of the city council, and the departments, agencies,
            committees, commissions, officials and employees of the city, to abide by the
            terms and provisions of this chapter.
         2. This chapter shall not prevent the city from complying with the terms and
            conditions of any grant, gift or bequest that is otherwise consistent with law.
         3. When procurement involves the expenditure offederal assistance funds,the city
            shall comply with applicable federal laws and regulations.
         4. In any such case, the spirit of this chapter shall guide the determination and
            actions of such person or entity.
         5. Procurements with a dollar amount of five hundred up to two thousand dollars
               ($52.000.00) or less, such determination may shall be made approved by the
               individual department heads.
            6. Procurements with a dollar amount greater than two thousand dollars
               ($2,000.00),shall be approved by the city manager or designee.
            7. For all procurements not otherwise budgeted,such determination may only be
               approved by the city council.
            8. Exchanges of supplies, material or equipment between the city and any other
               public agency that are not by sale or auction shall be by mutual agreement of
               the respective public agencies.
            9. City employees may be used to complete city projects; provided, that the city
               complies with state statutory requirements governing contracts for municipal
               public improvements.
