                                   ORDINANCE NO.2024-13


         AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,
                    ENACTING TITLE 5.40 OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY CODE
                  TO ADOPT A PUBLIC SAFETY SERVICE FEE FOR THE CITY


WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the "City") authority to
enact ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council(the "City Council") considers necessary
or appropriate for the health,safety, and welfare of the City; and

WHEREAS,the City Council is authorized by Utah Code § 10-3-717 to establish fees for
 municipal services; and

WHEREAS,the City Council finds it is in the best interests of the City and its residents and
the health,safety, and welfare of the City to enact Title 5.40 adopting a public safety
service fee to fund police and fire services for the City.

NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH:


SECTION 1. Enactment. The City Council hereby enacts and adopts Title 5.40 of the Bluffdale
City Code shown on Exhibit A and incorporated by this reference.

SECTION 2. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances, resolutions, policies, or
zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent herewith they are hereby
amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be amended to comply with
the provisions hereof,they are hereby repealed.

SECTION 3. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable,such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and independent
provision, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,ON THIS
:^>DAY OF                       20^,BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:
                                                    YES/ NO        ABSTAIN        ABSENT
                      Councilmember Aston             V
                      Councilmember Austin
                      Councilmember Crockett
                      Councilmember Lord              //
         Councilmember Wilding
         Mayor Hail (tie only)


Mayor:                           Attest:
                                           City Recorder
Exhibit A
5.40 Public Safety Service Fee

5.40.010       intent in Creating Public Safety Service Fee
5.40.020       Definitions
5.040.030      Establishment Of Public Safety Service Fee
5.040.040      Billing And Collection
5.040.050      Enforcement
5.040.060      Dedication Of Funds
5.040.070      Annual Report
5.040.080      Appeals
5.040.090      Contribution



5.40.010       intent in Creating Public Safety Service Fee

The City Council hereby finds, determines, and declares that the public necessity of providing
proper funding to the police and fire departments requires the establishment of a Public Safety
Service Fee with the purpose of helping to fund police and fire protection services for Bluffdale City
in order to safeguard the health, safety, and welfare of the City and its inhabitants.

Insofar as possible to do so with funds available, and in accordance with policies adopted by the
City Council,the City intends to only fund police or fire services with monies collected from the
Public Safety Service Fee.



5.40.020       Definitions

A."Police or fire services" means police or fire services provided for Bluffdale.
B. "Utility Account" means a City utility account, whether held by a residential or non-residential
user.




5.040.030      Establishment Of Public Safety Service Fee

There is hereby created a Public Safety Service Fee("Fee")to be paid by the users of Bluffdale City
utilities within the corporate limits of Bluffdale City and homes within the unincorporated County
who use Bluffdale City utilities. Each Utility Account holder shall be assessed a Public Safety
Service Fee as set forth in the Bluffdale City Consolidated Fee Schedule.The Fee may be modified
by resolution of the City Council in such amounts as deemed necessary to provide funds to
properly fund police or fire services.



5.040.040      Billing And Collection

The Fee shall be billed and collected with and as part of the monthly consolidated utility bill. The
person(s) responsible for payment of the Fee shall be the same person(s) responsible for payment
of other City utilities. All such bills shall be rendered monthly by the City and shall become due and
payable in accordance with the rules and regulations adopted by the City pertaining to the
collection of utility fees.
5.040.050       Enforcement

Any charge due hereunder which is not paid when due may be recovered in an action at law or
equity by the City. In addition to any other remedies or penalties provided by this Chapter or any
other ordinance of the City,failure of any person responsible for the payment of City utilities to
timely pay the charges when due shall subject such person to discontinuance of utility services
provided by the City, consistent with City policies regarding termination of utility services.



5.040.060       Dedication Of Funds

All funds collected by the City from this Fee shall be spent only on eligible police or fire services.



5.040.070       Annual Report

Each year during the annual budget process,the City Council shall receive an annual report
detailing the income and expenditures of the Fee.



5.040.080       Appeals

A. Any person who disputes the amount of the Fee,or disputes any determination made by or on
behalf of the City pursuant to and by the authority of this Chapter, may petition the City Council, or
its designee,for a hearing on a revision or modification of such Fee or determination. Such petitions
may be filed only once in connection with any Fee or determination, except upon a showing of
changed circumstances sufficient to justify the filing of such additional petition.

B. Such petitions shall be in writing,filed with the City Recorder within thirty(30) days of the date of
the utility bill containing the disputed charge or the date of the challenged determination.The
petitioner shall have the burden to prove that the amount of the Fee is in error.

C. Within sixty(60)days of filing the petition,the City Council, or its designee,shall make findings of
fact based on all relevant information, shall make a determination based upon such findings and, if
appropriate, modify such Fee or determination accordingly. Such determination by the Council or
its designee,shall be considered a final order.



5.040.090       Contribution

The Fee shall not be charged to any person or entity that in lieu of paying the Fee makes an advance
voluntary contribution to police and fire service funding in an amount equal to or greater than the
amount of the Fee imposed by this Chapter.
