CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-19

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 11.110.140 SPECIAL DISTRICT SD-X THE BLUFF AT
POINT CROSSING ZONE REDUCING THE NUMBER OF ENTITLED TOWNHOME UNITS
FROM 50 TO 40 AND REDUCING THE AMOUNT OF ENTITLED COMMERCIAL AREA FROM
62,000 SQUARE FEET TO APPROXIMATELY 40,000 SQUARE FEET ALONG WITH AN
UPDATED CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN, PLANS FOR HILLSIDE REVEGETATION, AND OTHER
RELATED ADMINISTRATIVE ITEMS.

WHEREAS the Bluffdale City Council established the SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing Zone
on January 25, 2023, through Ordinance 2023-03;

WHEREAS Ordinance 2023-03 created Section 11.110.140 of the Bluffdale City Code
outlining requirements of the new Zone and entitling the property to develop up to 50
townhome units and at least 62,000 square feet of commercial space;

WHEREAS the property owner conducted site work and soil analysis and determined a
reduction in the developable area of the property is necessary due to the need to stabilize
the surrounding slope;

WHEREAS the property owner has proposed an amendment of Section 11.110.140
reducing the number of entitled townhome units from 50 to 40 and reducing the total area
of commercial space from at least 62,000 square feet to approximately 40,000 square feet,
in proportion with the necessary reduction in the developable area, among other
housekeeping items;

WHEREAS a notice of public hearing for the proposed amendments was provided in
accordance with the Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code;

WHEREAS on August 21, 2024, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing and
unanimously forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposed Text Amendment to
the City Council.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

Section1. Adoption. Ordinance 2024-19 is hereby adopted, amending Section
11.110.140 of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

Section2. —_ Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: September 11, 2024

of hil;
phd dla
Mayoral C. Hall

ATTEST: [seal]

B

City Recorder

Voting by the City Council: Yes No Absent
Councilmember Aston ie
Councilmember Austin

Councilmember Crockett _
Councilmember Lord Lo —_—
Councilmember Wilding ee _
EXHIBIT A
11.110.140.010 INTENT AND PURPOSE

The intent of this special development zone is to provide a land use pattern for a
complementary and compatible pedestrian friendly mix of commercial and residential uses. It
is the intent of this zone to allow for flexibility and creativity in the arrangement of uses and
unique design standards. The purpose is to develop The Bluff at Point Crossing (“SD-X BPC
Zone”), a mixed-use community consisting of a-minimunm approximately ef 62,606 40,000
square feet of commercial uses and up to 50.40 residential townhome units. The SD-X BPC Zone
is located adjacent to Porter Rockwell Boulevard and Heritagecrest Way which provides
vehicular and pedestrian access for the development. Design standards and site specifications
in this project are created with this chapter and shall supersede any conflicting design
standards and site specifications in any and all applicable City ordinances. Design standards
not specifically included in the SD-X BPC Zone, shall be governed by applicable provisions of
the Bluffdale City Code (BCC).

110.1: 20 LAND USE AUTHO R SITE PLAN AND SUBD APPROVAL
Site plan approval is required for all commercial and residential buildings within the SD-X BPC
Zone. All applications are subject to the development standards and design requirements of
this chapter and the Bluffdale City Codes in title 11.150 and other applicable BCC sections and
are required to be approved by the Bluff at Point Crossing Architectural Review Committee
(BPCARC) prior to review and approval by the Land Use Authority. City of Bluffdale staff shall
be the Land Use Authority to review and approve all site plans.

The adoption of the SD-X BPC does not constitute a subdivision of the proposed property. All
future subdivisions of land within the SD-X BPC Zone are subject to all requirements of Title 12
and other applicable sections of the Bluffdale City Code and all adopted specifications and all
applications shall be reviewed and approved by the designated Land Use Authority as stated.

11.110.140.030 CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN

SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing consists of approximately 20 gross acres and 10.66
developable acres. The Conceptual Site Plan includes approximately 9.50 8.37 acres of
commercial uses, approximately 2.90 2.12 acres of residential uses, and includes
approximately #07 11 acres of landscaping, open space and other amenities as shown in Figure
lLandfigure2. Total acreage may vary as final site plans are developed and approved. The Bluff
at Point Crossing conceptual site plan provides an anticipated layout of commercial and
residential uses and does not constitute final site plan approval. Site plan approval is required
for all phases of development consistent with the Bluffdale City Code and as outlined in this
title by the authorized Land Use Authority.

FIGURE 1. CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN
11.110.140.040 COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL PHASING PLAN
The owners of the property within the SD-X BPC Zone shall submit application for site plan
approval and subdivision approval, if applicable, for the areas designated for commercial and
residential uses within two (2) years of zoning approval by the Land Use Authority. Commercial
pads and residential units shall be simultaneously constructed following the completion of the
overall site reclamation process and other City approval processes.

11.110.140.050 COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT AND DESIGN STANDARDS

The commercial areas of the SD-X BPC Zone consist of approximately 9-59 8.37 acres. It is
anticipated a minimum of 62,609 40,000 square feet of commercial and retail uses will be
provided depending upon market demand and economic opportunities. Proposed commercial
uses are shown in Table 11.110.140.060. The overall project shall provide pedestrian
connections and access to community and regional trail networks through integrated site
design. The site shall also provide vehicular access and circulation for mobility within the site
and visibility along Porter Rockwell Boulevard and Heritagecrest Way.

A. Public Open Space and Landscaping Requirements: Open space shall be included as a
component of all site plans, and shall include the following minimum standards:
1. Consist of a minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the everalt developable
acreage-ferthe-entire-preject. Site specific landscaping plans will be approved
with the individual site plan applications and shall maintain landscaping
percentages in each phase of development.

2. Additional features including art, clocks, water features, or other amenities are
highly encouraged within the SD-X BPC commercial area. These areas may
include a central prominent gathering space with a focal feature such as a
statue, water feature, canopy, gazebo, clock tower, or other feature as approved
with the site plan. The central features shall be proportionate to the size and
scale of the gathering space and may include other features such as raised
planters, benches, trees, pedestrian scale lighting, and brick pavers or stamped
concrete.

3. Any hardscaped area featuring any of the amenities listed above used for a
public open space shall be included in the overall tabulation for the minimum
open space or landscaping requirement and may receive credit as a
replacement for irrigated landscape areas.

4. Atrail network shall be provided within the project to connect the commercial
and residential areas and create connections to other public trails within the
area, pursuant to or as shown on concept plan Figure 2. Trail locations and
specifications are subject to the City’s standards and shall be reviewed and
approved with specific site plan applications.

5. Areas of the project, includi illsides, tha een disturbed i
rading and/or constructi r fh revegel i rdance with
e ndards and section 8.60.060_o Bluffdale City C
i i hillsi Vi ion pl mitted with
e si ication for e: djoining or abutti e of the project.

B. Alllandscaped areas shall be installed in accordance with the City’s standards for water
efficiency, parking lot landscaping, trees, shrubs, ground cover requirements, and
irrigation design.

C. Street trees shall be planted and maintained in compliance with City standards in all
park strips and adjacent to the trail areas. Where a park strip does not exist or allow for
street trees due to utility or other engineering conflicts, street trees shall be placed as
close to the sidewalk as possible. Trees shall be installed pursuant to the approved site
plan prior the issuance of a certificate of occupancy in each identified phase and shall
be maintained by the owner. The owner shall be responsible for maintaining the park
strips and removing snow from the sidewalk and trail areas within and adjacent to the
project.

D. Commercial Development Standards: The SD-XBPC Zone provides specific
development standards for the overall project. The purpose is to provide a sense of
place and unifying theme for the project by elevating the quality of materials, colors,
and additional amenities not typically required for commercial development.

1. General Standards:
r

Public utility easements shall meet Bluffdale City Standards.

No trash, used materials, unsightly or outside storage of any kind, or non-
licensed or abandoned vehicles shall be stored in this SD-X zone.
Dumpster enclosures shall be architecturally designed and screened per
adopted standards in BCC. Locations and materials shall be approved
during site plan review.

2. Commercial Location Standards:

1.

2.

3.

4.

Setback Requirements: Commercial buildings and necessary
appurtenances for utility service may be located as depicted on the
concept plan with no specific setback requirements. Drive-through lanes
shall be screened and buffered from adjacent sidewalks and trails by at
least five feet (5’) of perimeter landscaping which includes vertical
elements. Building locations shall be approved during the commercial
site plan review process and shall comply with all adopted building and
fire codes, accommodate utility easements, right of way requirements,
transportation, and access ways, and all other applicable provisions of
the Bluffdale City Code and adopted standards.

Commercial Maximum Height: A primary building or structure may not
exceed fifty feet (50°) in height, nor be lower than ten feet (10’) in height.
All buildings and structures must adhere to adopted Building and Fire
Codes.

Screening of utilities and equipment: Shall adhere to all BCC adopted

requirements.

Distance Between Commercial Buildings: The distance between any

building or structure and any other building or structure shall satisfy the
Building and Fire Codes in place at the time of site plan approval.

3. Commercial Parking, Loading, and Access:

1.

2.

Parking: Total required off street parking spaces shall be a minimum of
five (5) stalls per one thousand (1,000) useable square feet for office and
retail uses. Sufficiency of parking stall be verified during site plan review,
based on a professional analysis and the specific proposed uses. The
spaces shall be hard surfaced with asphalt or concrete and be accessed
from a public road by a hard surfaced, composed of asphalt or concrete,
drive approach which meets adopted standards. A conceptual parking
plan is presented in Figure 1.

Loading and Unloading Area: Loading and unloading and service
entrances shall not occur on or adjacent to a public street. Loading docks
are not allowed and service areas shall be screened from traffic with
berming, decorative masonry walls, and/or landscaping, pursuant to
adopted design requirements in the BCC.
3. Buildings and uses designated with drive-through lanes shall verify
adequate stacking and queuing in their traffic analysis during site plan
review.

4. Cross-access easement agreements shall be recorded with any proposed
subdivision to accommodate free movement of vehicular and pedestrian
traffic and to allow shared parking throughout the project.

5. Allinternal roads throughout the development are planned to be private
roads and will be owned and maintained by the owners or users as part
of the SD-XBPC Zone.

4. Design Standards: The Bluff at Point Crossing project shall include enhanced
architectural elements and thematic features to all sides and facades of a
building. The following architectural design standards are provided to create a
specific project design, conceptual architectural elevations and renderings are
depicted in Figure 32 and Figure 43 which are to be used as an expectation for
site plan review. The following architectural design guidelines are the minimum
standards for the design and construction of all non-residential buildings within
The Bluff at Point Crossing. Building design shall adhere to the design
requirements in 11.150 of the BCC unless otherwise specifically noted.

1. Building Materials:

1. Lap siding and beadboard may be utilized as the primary visible
exterior material. Use of this material shall not exceed 50%. It
shall be neutral and light in color and shall be fiber/cement
composite siding. No vinyl siding shall be permitted.

2. Wood can be used mainly around entrances or on the building as
an accent material. The use of this material may not exceed 25%.

3. Stone, brick and other masonry may be used as a primary
material which may not exceed 60%.

4. Primary color tones shall be complimentary in hue and shade to
the facade material and shall generally be subtle, subdued, low
reflectance, neutral, or earth tones. White and black are also
acceptable.

5. Architectural metal panels, patterned concrete and/or
EIFS/stucco systems may be used on all exterior walls. Maximum
amount of ElFs/stucco is 25% on any one facade.

2. Windows: Primary building elevations along Porter Rockwell Boulevard
and Heritagecrest Way shall have a minimum of forty percent (40%)
transparency or window glazing within the first nine (9) feet of the
structure; above that, the remaining facade areas shall have a minimum
of fifteen percent (15%) window requirement, which can include the use
of clerestory windows where high ceilings exist. Mirrored glass shall not
be allowed on the ground floor. Spandrel glass or faux windows may be
utilized to meet this requirement where not feasible due to building
structural design limitations. Glass garage doors, including opaque glass,
may be used to calculate and qualify for this requirement.
3. Architecture:

1. Architectural_orientation. Four-sided architectural design is
required. The design of a building shall be considered on all sides
of the building, with a “frontage” design on Porter Rockwell
Boulevard and Heritagecrest Way, as well as an additional
frontage with entry access near the parking areas. The front
facade of all commercial buildings shall face the street, and an
additional and look alike front facade will face the parking or
other area of main pedestrian access.

2. Roof Design. Commercial buildings may utilize some flat roof
designs. A design including pitched roof features for accent roofs
are encouraged and should be used for 25% of a massing’s roof
line.

3. Entry Features. Porches, roof overhangs, awnings, hooded front
doors, pop-outs, and/or other architectural facade elements shall
define the front entrance to all commercial buildings.

4. Vertical Separation. Buildings should have a visually distinct base
that creates a welcoming environment for pedestrians. The
lowest level of the building should have more mass and bulk in
order to be clearly delineated and scaled. The ground floor ceiling
height must be greater than the upper floors.

FIGURES 32 AND 43. COMMERCIAL ARCHITECTURAL ELEVATIONS AND MATERIALS

architects and engineers

urbidae

architects and engineers

11.110.140.060 ALLOWED USES
Only those land uses specifically listed in the Table below are allowed as permitted or
accessory uses in the commercial areas of the SD-X BPC Zone.

Table of Permitted Uses for SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing Zone

USES

BANK OR FINANCIAL INSTITUTION: An organization involved in deposit banking, finance,
investment, mortgages, trusts, and the like, but excluding uses specifically classified in another
definition herein. Typical uses include commercial banks, credit unions, finance or mortgage
companies, and savings institutions.

CARWASH: An establishment primarily engaged in cleaning or detailing motor vehicles,
including cars, passenger trucks, recreational vehicles, whether self-service, automatic or by
hand. This definition applies only to car washes that are the primary use of land. A car wash
associated with a gas station is not included in this definition.

CONVENIENCE STORE/GAS STATION: An establishment, not exceeding five thousand (5,000)
square feet of gross floor area, serving a limited market area and engaged in the retail sale or
rental, from the premises, of food, beverages and other frequently or recurrently needed items
for household use, which may include the sale of gasoline and petroleum products. Such

establishment may also include automatic and self-serve car washes which are accessory to the
primary use.

HOTEL: An establishment with or without fixed cooking facilities in individual rooms offering
transient lodging accommodations to the public, and which may provide additional services
such as restaurants and meeting rooms.

LAUNDRY SERVICES: An establishment providing household laundry and dry-cleaning services
with customer drop off and pick up where laundering or cleaning is done on the site. This use
also includes an establishment providing home type washing, drying, and/or ironing machines
for hire or rent to be used by customers on the premises, such as a laundromat.

MEDICAL SERVICE/URGENT CARE CLINIC: An establishment providing therapeutic, preventive,
urgent care, or corrective personal treatment services on an outpatient basis by physicians,
dentists, and other practitioners of the medical or healing arts, as well as the provision of
medical testing and analysis services.

OFFICE, GENERAL: A building, room or department where executive, management,
administrative or professional services are provided, except medical services, and excluding the
sale of merchandise, except as incidental to a principal use. Typical uses include real estate
brokers, insurance agencies, credit reporting agencies, property management firms, investment
firms, employment agencies, travel agencies, advertising agencies, secretarial services, data
processing, call centers; Post Offices and express mail offices as an accessory or complementary
use to a professional and business office development, but excluding major mail processing and
distribution; offices for utility bill collection; professional or consulting services in the fields of
law, architecture, design, engineering, accounting and similar professions; interior decorating
consulting services; and business offices of private companies, utility companies, public
agencies, trade associations, unions and nonprofit organizations.

PERSONAL INSTRUCTION SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of
informational, instructional, personal improvement and similar services of a nonprofessional
nature. Typical uses include art and music schools, driving and computer instruction, gymnastic
and dance studios, handicraft or hobby instruction, health and fitness studios, massage therapist
instruction, martial arts training, and swimming clubs.

PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT: An establishment providing nonmedical services to
individuals as a primary use. Examples of these uses include barbershops, beauty salons,
day/health spa, hair salons, nail salons, shoe repair shops, tanning salons, tailors and similar
businesses not including tattoo establishments.

PRESCHOOL/DAYCARE CENTER: An establishment, other than an occupied dwelling, operated
by a person or organization qualified by the State, which provides daycare, protection or
supervision and/or preschool instruction.

RECREATION AND ENTERTAINMENT (INDOOR): A commercial recreational land use conducted
entirely within a building, including arcade, arena, athletic and health clubs, bowling alley,
community center, gymnasium, pool or billiard hall, skating rink, swimming pool, tennis court or
similar indoor facility. Related indoor uses may include a retail area for the sale or rental of
equipment and a snack bar.

REPAIR SERVICE: An establishment primarily engaged in providing repair services to individuals
and households rather than firms, but excluding automotive, vehicular and equipment services
uses. Typical uses include appliance repair shops, computer and other electronic equipment
repair, furniture repair and upholstery shops, watch or jewelry repair shops, and musical
instrument repair shops.

RESTAURANT: A facility where food and drink is prepared and served to the public for on-site
consumption (dine in), takeout, or delivery service. A restaurant may include a drive-through.

RETAIL, GENERAL: An establishment that rents or sells goods to the public but excluding uses
specifically classified in another definition herein. Typical uses include apparel stores, antique
shops, art and hobby supply stores, bicycle shops, bookstores, clothing rental stores,
department stores, discount stores, drugstores, electronic appliance stores, florists, food stores,
furniture and appliance stores, gift and novelty shops, glass and mirror shops, hardware stores,
home improvement centers, jewelry stores, medical supply stores, music stores, optical retail
sales, paint stores, pet stores, photocopying and blueprinting shops, photography supply stores,
record, tape and video stores, sporting goods stores, toy stores and variety stores.

VETERINARY SERVICE: An establishment providing medical care and treatment for animals,
which may include accessory grooming or boarding services.

11.110.140.070 RES! ELOPMENT Al S| NDARD:

The conceptual residential areas of the Bluff at Point Crossing consist of approximately 2.99
2.12 acres. It is anticipated that up to 56 40 townhome units can be accommodated within the
project depending upon market demand, right of way requirements, and sufficient parking
being provided. Townhomes shall have pedestrian connections to commercial areas and trail
networks and to the Independence project to the north through integrated site design. Access
will be provided from Porter Rockwell Boulevard and Heritagecrest Way.

A. Open Space: Open space shall be included, and shall include the following:
1.

2.

Consist of a minimum of fifteen percent (15%) of the evera developable
acreage for the entire residential area of the project. Site specific landscaping
plans will be approved with the individual site plan applications.

Amenities: Open space shall be provided to benefit the residential community.
The residential area may include a privately owned and maintained park. A trail
network shall provide public access to trails and connections to other trail
systems and create pedestrian connectivity to the commercial areas within the
project along with surrounding neighborhoods as shown in the (open space
exhibit) Figure 21. Trails within the residential area shall be constructed with the
residential units. Final locations, connections and standards shall be
determined at site plan approval.

B. Landscaping:

1.

The residential areas shall be landscaped in accordance with the City’s
standards for water efficiency, percentage of parking lot landscaping, tree,
shrub, and ground cover requirements, and irrigation design.

Street trees shall be planted and maintained in compliance with City standards
in all park strips and adjacent to trail areas. Where a park strip does not exist or
allow for street trees due to utility or other engineering conflicts, street trees
shall be placed as close to the sidewalk as possible. These trees shall be installed
pursuant to the approved site plan prior the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy and shall be maintained by the owner. The owners shall be
responsible for maintaining the park strips and removing snow from the
sidewalk and trail areas within and adjacent to the project.

The private park and trails will be informal play areas that include at a minimum
turf, trees, and an automatic irrigation system, which complies with the City’s
water efficiency standards.

reas @ project, includi illsides, that _hav n_di

radin c ction pr vege in accordance with
a d dards and i 60.060 of the Bluffdale City Code.
landscaping plan, in ing a hillside rev ion h i i
he si application for each adjoini i e of the project.

C. Residential Development Standards:

1.

2.

3.
4.

Appearance: The SD-X BPC Zone requires specific development standards and
regulations that apply to the project. The purpose is to develop standards that
will enhance the overall appearance of the neighborhood.

Conflicts: Standards and adopted codes not specifically modified by this SD-X
BPC Zone shall be governed by applicable provisions of the Bluffdale City Code
and adopted standards.

The residential units are allowed to be three stories and up to 50 feet in height.
Residential building location is allowed as depicted on the conceptual site plan,
with no specific setback requirement, and shall be approved during the site plan
review process. Location shall comply with all adopted building and fire codes
and accommodate required utility easements, right of way requirements, and
emergency access, and all other applicable provisions of the Bluffdale City Code
and adopted standards.

The architectural design standards are provided to create a specific project
design, conceptual architectural elevations and renderings are depicted in
Figure 54 and Figure 65 which are to be used as an expectation for site plan
review.

D. Residential Parking and Vehicular Access:

1.

2.
3.

Residential parking is provided as follows: two (2) parking spaces per dwelling
unit enclosed in garage and 20-foot minimum driveway is required.

There shall be one (1) guest parking stall for every four (4) units.

Cross access easement agreements shall be recorded with any proposed
subdivision plat between the residential lots and the commercial lots to
accommodate free movement of vehicular and pedestrian traffic and to allow
shared parking between throughout the project.

E. Building Materials:

1

2.

3.

Lap siding and beadboard may be utilized as the primary visible exterior
material. Use of this material shall not exceed 50%. It shall be neutral and light
in color and align with the style and renderings depicted in Figures 5-6. All lap
siding and beadboard shall be fiber/cement composite siding. No vinyl siding
shall be permitted. ;
Wood may be used as an accent material. Wood can be used mainly around
entrances and featured architectural elements and may not exceed 25%.
Primary color tones shall be complimentary in hue and shade to the facade
material and shall generally be subtle, subdued, low reflectance, neutral, or
earth tones. White and black are also acceptable.

Stone, masonry, brick, fiber cement siding, architectural metal panels,
patterned concrete are allowed and may not exceed 25% on any one facade.
Where masonry is used on the front exterior at corners, it shall be wrapped
around to the side exterior a minimum of twenty-four inches (24”).

F. Architecture:

1.

2.

3.

Architectural orientation. Four-sided architectural design is required. The
design of a building shall be considered on all sides of the building, with a
“frontage” design on the internal and private street.

Roof Design. A design including pitched and flat roof features for accent roofs
are encouraged and should be used for at least 25% of a massing’s roof line.
Entry Features. Porches, roof overhangs, awnings, hooded front doors, pop-
outs, and/or other architectural facade elements shall define the front entrance
to all residential units.

4. Garage Doors. All garage doors shall have architectural elements, windows and

a varied color palette as shown in rendering.

G. Table of Uses allowed in the residential area of the SD-X BPC Zone.
DWELLING, MULTI-FAMILY: A dwelling containing three (3) or more dwelling units. P

HOME OCCUPATION: Any occupation conducted within a dwelling and carried on by
persons residing in the dwelling.

FIGURES 54 AND 65. RESIDENTIAL ELEVATIONS AND MATERIALS

aeurbia
architects and engineers
Chitin: and.engineers
11.110.140.080 TRANSPORTATION

The Bluff at Point Crossing project provides access to Porter Rockwell Boulevard and
Heritagecrest Way as primary access to the property. A signalized intersection and proposed to
be located at the intersection of Heritagecrest Way and Porter Rockwell Boulevard as
warranted by the Utah Department of Transportation. The transportation network plan is
depicted in Figure #6.

1. Detailed traffic studies shall be required during site plan review to verify specific design
and right of way requirements for access and traffic flow to commercial and residential

8. Final widths and design of streets shall be determined by +f City engineer based on
traffic analysis during the site plan process.

2. All roads within the project zone, apart from Heritagecrest Way, will be private streets,
owned and maintained by the owners or user’s associations.

FIGURES #6 AND-8. TRANSPORATION PLAN-AND-CROSS-SECHONS
cwo
MLUFFOALK, UTA

11.110.140.090 SIGNAGE

1. Signs: All monument, tower, and informational wayfinding signs shall adhere to a
consistent and unified signage scheme which is consistent with the architectural
theme. Unless otherwise noted, all signs shall comply with signage requirements in BCC
11.220.

2. Signage which differs from or exceeds the City’s standard’s requirements is allowed as
follows:

1. Tower Sign: One tower sign shall be allowed at the entrance to The Bluff at Point
Crossing from Porter Rockwell Boulevard which meets the dimensional, design,
and locational standards found in BCC 11.22.070.

2. Welcome Sign. Developer shall install and entry/welcome sign which includes
the official “The Bluff at Point Crossing” logo as part of the project. Said sign
shall be allowed to be up to six feet high and shall have an architectural concrete
base. The welcome sign shall be included in the site plan review and constructed
with the building located closest to the intersection of Heritagecrest Way and
Porter Rockwell Boulevard.

3. Informational Wayfinding Signs. Informational wayfinding signs shall be
allowed in the project and shall follow the size and location guidelines outlined
in City code section 11.220.070 for informational signs.
4. Suspended, Blade Type Projecting Signs. Suspended or blade type projecting
signs may be provided along pedestrian walkways and shall maintain a

minimum clearance of seven feet (7’) above the pavement and shall be a
maximum of four (4) square feet.

5. Electronic message centers are not allowed.
8

BLUFFDALE

5 © (801) 254-2200

STAFF REPORT
August 16, 2024

To: City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Caitlyn Tubbs, Planning Manager

Re: Proposed amendments to the SD-X The Bluffs at Point Crossing Zone

Application No.: 2024-17

Applicant(s): Geneva Rock Products c/o Clayton Rackham

Request: To review the proposed amendments to Bluffdale City Code 11.110.140 SD-X The
Bluff at Point Crossing to reduce the number of townhome units from 50 to 40 and
to reduce the square footage of commercial space from 62,000 to approximately
40,000.

SUMMARY

The Applicant owns approximately 20 acres of property at the intersection of 1300 West and Porter Rockwell
Boulevard, which is in the SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing Zone. This Zone was enacted on January 25, 2023,
through Ordinance 2023-03 (attached as Exhibit B) and entitled this property to develop up to 50 townhome
units and at least 62,000 square feet of commercial space. Following additional site work and soil analysis,
the Applicant determined a reduction in the developable area of the property is necessary because
additional space is needed to stabilize the surrounding slope. The Applicant has brought this Text
Amendment before the City to reduce the number of townhome units from 50 to 40 and to reduce the square
footage of commercial space from 62,000 to approximately 40,000, along with associated housekeeping
changes.

ANALYSIS

The SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing Zone was created through Ordinance 2023-03 to develop a mixed-use
community adjacent to Porter Rockwell Boulevard and Heritagecrest Way (approximately 15600 S Porter
Rockwell Boulevard). As required by Section 11.110.080.050, the Applicant met with the City Councilina
Work Session on February 23, 2022 (Minutes, p. 1-4) to discuss the proposal. The City Council expressed
support for the commercial component of the project and urged the Applicant to develop the commercial
pads before, or concurrently with, the residential component. At that time, up to 50 townhome units anda
minimum 62,000 square feet of commercial space were anticipated.

The Applicant submitted an SD Zone Application to the Planning Department on September 26, 2022. The
Planning Commission reviewed the proposal on December 7, 2022 (Minutes, p. 8-14) and discussed the

Application 2024-17 - SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing Text Amendment
August 21, 2024, Planning Commission Meeting
Pagel
amount of proposed commercial space and proposed land uses. The Planning Commission continued the
item to January 4, 2023 (Minutes, p. 2-7) with revisions to the amount of commercial space entitled in the
Zone. The Planning Commission forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposal to the City Council on
January 4, 2023, and the City Council approved Ordinance 2023-03 on January 25, 2023 (Minutes, p. 13-16),
enacting the new Zone.

The Applicant proceeded with a geotechnical study of the site and found a layer of silt in the area that would
not be stable enough for development. The Applicant regraded the site to remove this instability and
establish a 3:1 slope across the property, however, this resulted in the developable area of the site shrinking.
The developable area has been reduced by roughly 30% and the Applicant has proposed the amendment of
the zoning ordinance to reflect this reduction in the entitlements. The Applicant proposes the reduction of
the residential component by 20% and the commercial area by approximately 35.5%.

aa

¥ i)
\ J os
Figure 2: Aerial views of subject p

roperty (orange) showing grading changes betwei 11 2021 (left) and Fall 2023 (right)

Additional housekeeping changes to the ordinance have been proposed to clarify the total developable area
of the project and the amount of required landscaping, along with landscaping timelines. Further, the
exhibits showing the proposed right-of-way cross sections have been removed since the code already
indicates the street(s) will be required to comply with the standards as part of the Site Plan approval
process(es).

Application 2024-17 - SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing Text Amendment
August 21, 2024, Planning Commission Meeting
Page 2
Figure 4: Proposed concept plan showing pedestrian connections and open space

Application 2024-17 - SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing Text Amendment
August 21, 2024, Planning Commission Meeting
Page 3
NOTICE AND PUBLIC INPUT

Anotice of this public hearing was provided as follows:
- Published on the Utah Public Notice Website on August 6, 2024
- Published in the Salt Lake Tribune on August 11, 2024
- Posted on the City’s website and at City Hall on August 6, 2024

The City did not receive any public input regarding this item before publishing this report.
OD OTIONS FO! OPOSED ADOPTION:

Model for a Positive Recommendation - “I move to forward a positive recommendation to the City Council
for the proposed Ordinance 2024-19, amending Section 11.110.140 SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing, based on
the findings presented in the Staff Report dated August 16, 2024 (and including the following additional
findings):”

1. List all findings for approval...

Motion for a Negative Recommendation - “I move to forward a negative recommendation to the City Council
for the proposed Ordinance 2024-19 amending Section 11.110.140 The Bluff at Point Crossing, based upon
the following findings:”

1. Li indings for in ive recommendation...

Motion to Continue the Item to a Date Certain/Uncertain - “I move to continue the item to a date
certain/uncertain and direct Staff to provide additional information regarding the following:
1. i dditi: i ion, analysis, or findings the Planning Commissio!

provide in advance of the date certain/uncertain...

EXHIBITS
A: Draft Redlines
B: Ordinance 2023-03

Application 2024-17 - SD-X The Bluff at Point Crossing Text Amendment
August 21, 2024, Planning Commission Meeting
Page 4
