                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                ORDINANCE NO.2024-25


AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 12 OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TO REFLECT
CHANGES IN STATE CODE REGARDING REVIEWS OF SUBDIVISION PLATS AND
INSTALLATION OF IMPROVEMENTS ALONG WITH RELATED HOUSEKEEPING ITEMS


WHEREAS,the 2023 Utah State Legislature passed Senate Bill 174 modified subdivision
review procedures;

WHEREAS,the 2024 Utah State Legislature passed House Bill 476 further modifying
subdivision review procedures for municipalities;

WHEREAS,the City proposes amendments to Title 12 ofthe Bluffdale City Code to comply
with the changes to Utah State Code along with related housekeeping items;

WHEREAS,a notice of public hearing for the proposed amendments was provided
pursuant to the Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code;

WHEREAS,on October 16,2024,the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing and
unanimously forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposed Text Amendment to
the City Council.

NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:


       Section 1.     Adoption. Ordinance 2024-25 is hereby adopted, amending Section
11.30.060 of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

       Section 2. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances,
resolutions, policies, or zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent
herewith they are hereby amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be
amended to comply with the provisions hereof,they are hereby repealed.

       Section 3. Severability. if any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid or unenforceable,such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
portion of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance
shall be severable.

      Section 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED: November 13,2024



                                           CITYOFBLUFFDALE




                                                       a ie C. Ha


ATTEST:




                                           CORPORATE
City Recorder




Voting by the City Council:     Yes   No   Absent


       Councilmember Aston       ^
       Councilmember Austin
       Councilmember Crockett
       Councilmember Lord
       Councilmember Wilding
       Mayor Hall (Tie Only)
#07',-        ■'oU
g 5 3TAn0'-ia00
I 1 J«i3
EXHIBIT A
EXHIBIT A -PROPOSED
TEXT AMENDMENTS



12.10.010 Short Title


This title shall be known as the BLUFFDALE CITY SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE or
SUBDIVISION ORDINANCE. This title shall also be known as title 12 of this code. It may
be cited and pleaded under any ofthe above stated designations.(Ord. 2019-17,9-25-2019)

12.10.020 Purpose

The purposes of this title, and any rules, regulations, standards and specifications hereafter
adopted pursuant hereto or in conjunction herewith are:

     A. To promote and protect the public health, safety, and general welfare;
     B. To regulate future growth and development activity within the city in a manner
        which promotes the physical integration of diverse housing forms, the preservation
        of Bluffdale City community values and the social integration of residents from
        diverse backgrounds in accordance with the general plan; and to promote the
        efficient and orderly growth of the city; and
     C.To provide procedures and standards for the physical development of subdivisions
       of land and construction of buildings and improvements thereon within the city,
       including, but not limited to, the construction and installation of roads, streets,
       curbs,gutters, sidewalks, parks,trails, and open spaces,drainage systems, water and
       sewer systems, design standards for public facilities and utilities, access to public
       rights-of-way, dedication of land and streets, granting easements or rights-of-way
       and to establish fees and other charges for the authorizing of a subdivision and for
       the development of land and improvements thereon.(Ord. 2019-17,9-25-2019)

12.10.030 Interpretation

In their interpretation and application, the provisions of this title shall be considered as
minimum requirements for the purposes set forth. Where the provisions of this title impose
greater restrictions than any statute, other regulation, ordinance or covenant, the provisions
ofthis title shall prevail. Where the provisions of any statute, other regulation, ordinance or
covenant impose greater restrictions than the provisions of this title, the provisions of such
statute, other regulation, ordinance or covenant shall prevail.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.10.040 General Considerations


     A. General Plan: The general plan shall guide the use and future development of all
        land within the corporate boundaries of the city. The size and design of lots, the
        nature of utilities, the design and improvement of streets, the type and intensity of
        land use, and the provisions for any facilities in any subdivision shall conform to
        the land uses shown and the standards established in the general plan, the zoning
   ordinance, and other applicable ordinances.
B. Preservation; Design: Trees, native land cover, natural watercourses, and
   topography shall be preserved where possible. Subdivisions shall be so designed as
   to prevent excessive grading and scarring of the landscape. The design of new
   subdivisions shall consider, and relate to, existing street widths, alignments and
   names.


C. Community Facilities: Community facilities, such as parks, recreation areas, trails,
   and transportation facilities shall be provided in the subdivision in accordance with
   general plan standards, this title, and other applicable ordinances. This title
   establishes procedures for the referral of infonnation on proposed subdivisions to
   interested boards, bureaus, and other governmental agencies and utility companies,
   both private and public, so that the extension of community facilities and utilities
   may be accomplished in an orderly manner, coordinated with the development of
   this subdivision. In order to facilitate the acquisition of land areas required to
   implement this policy, the applicant may be required to dedicate, grant easements
   over or otherwise reserve land for parks, playgrounds, public ways, utility
   easements, and other public purposes.
D. Vesting Of of Zoning Rights:
        1. An applicant is entitled to approval of a land use application if the
           application conforms to the requirements of this and other applicable titles
           of this code in effect when a complete application is submitted and all fees
            have been paid, unless:
                a. The administrative land use authority, on the record, finds that a
                    compelling, countervailing public interest would be jeopardized by
                    approving the application; or
                b. Before the application is submitted and deemed complete, the city
                    has formally initiated proceedings to amend its ordinances as
                    provided for in these ordinances that would prohibit approval of
                    the application as submitted.

        2. The city shall process an application without regard to proceedings initiated
            to amend the municipality-Is ordinances if:
                a. One hundred eighty (180) days have passed since the proceedings
                    were initiated; and
                b. The proceedings have not resulted in an enactment that prohibits the
                    approval ofthe application, as submitted.

        3. An application for a land use approval is considered submitted and complete
            when the application is provided in a form that complies with the
            requirements of applicable ordinances and all applicable fees have been
            paid.
        4. The continuing validity of an approval of a land use application is
            conditioned upon the applicant proceeding after approval to implement the
                approval with reasonable diligence.
            5. The city may not impose on a holder of a subdivision approval, a
                requirement that is not expressed:
                    a. In the land use permit or in documents on which the land use permit
                        is based; or

                     b. In the city'ls ordinances.

            6. The city may not withhold issuance of a certificate of occupancy because of
                an applicant-Is failure to comply with a requirement that is not expressed:
                     a. In the building permit or in documents on which the building permit
                         is based; or

                     b. In the city-^s adopted standards and ordinances.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-
                         2019)

12.10.050 General Responsibilities

    A. The applicant shall prepare concept plans and plats consistent with the city
       development standards and shall pay for the design, city review, construction, and
       city inspection and testing of all public improvements and private improvements.
       These improvements include all required infrastructure within the public rights-of-
       way and private storm drain, private streets, fire hydrants, and on site culinary water
        within city'ls service area. The city shall process the plans and plats in accordance
       with the regulations set forth herein. The applicant may not alter the terrain or
       remove any vegetation from the proposed subdivision site or engage in any site
       development until applicant has obtained the necessary approvals as required in this
       code. The applicant is responsible to obtain and be familiar with all applicable
       subdivision ordinances, rules and standards of the city.
    B. The zoning administrator, or their designee, shall review the plans and plats for
       design; for conformity to the genera! plan and to the zoning ordinance; and shall
       process the subdivision plats and reports as provided for in this title.
    C. Plats and/or plans of proposed subdivisions may be referred by the zoning
       administrator to any city departments and special districts, governmental boards,
        bureaus, utility companies, and other agencies which will provide public and private
       facilities and services to the subdivision for their information and comment.

    D.The city engineer, or their designee, shall review for compliance the engineering
      plans and specifications for the city required improvements for the subdivision and
      whether the proposed city required improvements are consistent with this title, city
      design and construction standards, and other applicable ordinances, and shall be
      responsible for inspecting the city required public improvements and private
      improvements within the public rights-of-way and private storm drain, private
      streets, fire hydrants, and on-site culinary water within the city-^s service area. The
      city engineer, or their designee, shall also manage and direct security proceeds
      collection and administration, and the collection of certain fees. Street layout and
       overail circulation shall be coordinated with transportation planning by the zoning
       administrator and city engineer.
    E. The public works director, or their designee, shall review and make comments on
       the design engineering plans and specifications for the city required improvements
       related to long term maintenance and preservation provisions, snowplowing,
       snowplow storage areas, waste management collection and vehicle turnaround, city
       culinary water infrastructure and service lateral maintenance, streetlight service and
       all other related aspects pertaining to public works utility and infrastructure
        maintenance to the city engineer and the zoning administrator. The public works
       director may assist the city engineer in performing inspections.
    F. The administrative land use authority may approve, approve with conditions or, if
       the project does not meet adopted city standards and ordinances, terminate
       processing the application until such time that the application complies with all
       adopted standards and ordinances.
    G. The city engineer or their designee shall verify that the security proceeds provided
        by the applicant is acceptable,that the applicant dedicating land for use ofthe public
       is the owner of record, that the land is free and clear of unacceptable encumbrances
       according to the title report submitted by the applicant, and may review matters of
       title such as easements and plats.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.10.060 Accurate Information


    A. All documents, plans, reports, studies and information provided to the city by the
       applicant in accordance with the requirements of this title shall be accurate and
       complete. Any action taken or approval given by the city based upon incomplete or
       inaccurate documents, plans, reports, studies or information supplied to the city by
       the applicant may be voidable.
    B. All engineering drawings, plats, reports, and other similar documents shall be
       stamped by a registered professional engineer or others as required, licensed to
       practice in the state of Utah.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.10.070 Compliance Required

    A. It shall be unlawful for any person to subdivide any tract or parcel of land which is
        located wholly or in part in the city except in compliance with this title. No plat of
        any subdivision may be recorded until it has been submitted and approved as
        required herein. A plat may not be approved if the administrative land use authority
        determines such plat to be in conflict with any provision or portion of the general
        plan, master traffic and transportation plan, master parks and trails plan, zoning
        ordinance, this title, adopted building and/or fire codes, or any other state law or
        city ordinance or standard.
    B. Land or lots within a proposed subdivision may not be transferred or sold until a
       final plat of a subdivision has been recorded in accordance with this title and any
       applicable provisions of state law. Recordation of the plat may not occur until the
   improvements required in connection with the subdivision have been completed;
   however, upon the developer's request, the city may record the plat prior to the
   installation ofall improvements ifthe developer has first guaranteed the installation
   of improvements as provided herein. Construction of any improvements related to
   the subdivision, including any land disturbance, may not be commenced until a land
   disturbance permit has been issued for the project.
C. All lots, plots or tracts of land located within a subdivision shall be subject to this
   title whether the tract is owned by the applicant or a subsequent purchaser,
   transferee, devisee, or contract purchaser ofthe land or any other person.
D.Restrictive Covenants: If the applicant places restrictions on any of the land
  contained in the subdivision greater than those required by this title or any other
   city regulation or requirement, such as restrictions or reference thereto may be
   required to be indicated on the final plat or recorded with the county recorder. The
   city has no role or responsibility in creating or enforcing private covenants.
E. A building permit may not be issued on a parcel or tract of land within a subdivision
   until:

        1. All infrastructure improvements essential to meet the requirements to issue
            a building permit under the adopted building code and fire code and city
            ordinances; or
        2. The applicant has provided an improvement completion assurance for the
            required landscaping and/or infrastructure improvements to the city.

F. The issuance of a building permit for one model home per twenty(20)lots within a
   recorded subdivision, not to exceed four (4) total model homes in any one (1)
   recorded subdivision plat, may be allowed prior to the completion of all required
   subdivision improvements, subject to the following conditions:
        1. The model home is limited to non-residential occupancy. This limitation
            shall be formalized in an agreement acceptable to the city attorney which
            shall be executed prior to the issuance of any building permit for the
            structure. The agreement shall include the requirement that conversion to
            residential occupancy shall be subject to an additional final building
            inspection and the installation of all required subdivision improvements in
            the entire subdivision; and

        2. Model homes may only be constructed within seven hundred fifty feet
           (75(fD ofthe subdivision-Is entrance where it meets a fully improved public
            street.

G. Until the subdivision is completed and conditionally accepted by the city engineer
   and all appropriate agencies, the applicant shall be responsible for the following in
   the area where building permits have been issued:
        1. Maintaining public roads in a manner that allows continuous access for
            emergency vehicles;
        2. Maintaining public roadways and all drainage facilities free and clear ofdirt
                and debris which might obstruct water flow or quality ofstorm water flows;
            3. Maintaining continuous flow capacities to all hydrants in the subdivision; and
            4. Installing and maintaining street signs.

    H. All public improvements shall be constructed in accordance with the following:
            1. The city'ls adopted standards and specifications;
            2. The requirements of the city engineer;
            3. The development agreement between the applicant and the city (if
                applicable); and
            4. All other applicable city ordinances and regulations.

     I. The city may not withhold a certificate of occupancy unless:
            1. The applicant and the city have agreed in a written document to the
                withholding of certificates of occupancy; or
            2. The applicant has not completed the required landscaping and infrastructure
                improvements as adopted in city ordinances, or the applicant has not
                provided assurance for the incomplete landscaping and infrastructure
                improvements as allowed by city ordinances and adopted regulations and
                life safety codes.
            3. The city may not require assurances for private infrastructure improvements
                that are not required by the adopted building code, fire code, flood or storm
                water regulations, street and access requirements, or other necessary public
                safety improvements as adopted in the city'^s ordinances, standards and
                specifications. Nothing in this section may prevent the city from requiring
                assurances for private landscaping as required by city ordinances or an
                applicable development agreement or adopted project plan.(Ord. 2019-17,
                9-25-2019)


12.10.080 Prohibited Acts


    A. An owner of any land located in a subdivision, as defined in Utah Code § 10-9a-
       103, who transfers or sells any land in that subdivision before a plat of the
       subdivision has been approved and recorded violates this chapter for each lot or
       parcel transferred or sold.
    B. The description by metes and bounds in the instrument of transfer or other
       documents used in the process of selling or transferring does not exempt the
       transaction from being a violation of subsection A of this section or from the
       penalties or remedies provided in chapter 1 -4 of this code.
    C. Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the recording of an instrument
       of transfer or other document used in the process of selling or transferring real
        property that violates this section:
             1. Does not affect the validity of the instrument or other document; and
             2. Does not affect whether the property that is the subject of the instrument or
                 other document complies with applicable municipal ordinances on land use
                 and development.

    D. The city may bring an action against an owner to require the property to conform to
        the provisions of this chapter.
     E. An action under this section may include an injunction, abatement, merger of title,
        or any other appropriate action or proceeding to prevent, enjoin, or abate the
        violation.

     F. The city need only establish the violation to obtain the injunction.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-
        25-2019)


12.10.090 Penalties


It shall be a class C misdemeanor for any person to fail to comply with the provisions of this
title. In addition to any criminal prosecution, the city may pursue any other legal remedy to
ensure compliance with this title.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.10.100 Appeals

     A. Appeals may be made in accordance with section 11.30.040 to the designated appeal
        authority as set forth in section 11.30.090 of this code. Such appeal shall set forth
        in detail the action and grounds upon which the applicant or other person deems
        himself or herself aggrieved.
     B. An aggrieved party may appeal the appeal authority-Is decision as provided in
         section 11.30.090 ofthis code.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)


12.10.110 Staff Authority

Unless otherwise specifically provided for in this title, all officers and employees of the city
act in an advisoiy capacity to the designated administrative land use authority and have no
authority to make binding decisions or to make authoritative representations, approvals or
determinations other than in a purely advisory and recommending capacity.(Ord. 2019-17,
9-25-2019)


12.20,010 Concept Plan

A pre-application meeting with the city-Is development review committee(DRC)complete
with a concept plan is strongly encouraged for all subdivisions as provided in this title. This
provides the applicant with an opportunity to consult with and receive assistance from the
city regarding the regulations and design requirements applicable to the subdivision of
property. The applicant or applicant-Is duly authorized and certified agent may schedule this
meeting with the community development department and submit a complete concept plan
for review at the meeting.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.20.020 Submission


The applicant shall submit printed and/or digital copies of the proposed subdivision concept
plan to the community development department for review at the pre-application meeting.
The proposed concept plan shall be professionally prepared and include the following items:

     A. The proposed name of the subdivision;
     B. A vicinity plan showing significant natural and manmade features or existing
        structures on the site and within two hundred feet (200^J of any portion of it; the
        property boundaries of the proposed subdivision; the names of adjacent property
        owners; topographic contours at no greater interval than two feet (20; and north
        arrow;

     C. A proposed lot and street layout;
     D.Availability and location of utilities and drainage facilities within the vicinity which
       are adjacent to the property;
     E. A description of those portions ofthe property which are included in the most recent
        flood insurance rate maps prepared by FEMA;
     P. The total acreage of the entire tract proposed for subdivision; and
     G. County plat map with aerial photo underlay, if available.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.20.030 Review Sy^City Staff

     A. If an applicant requests a pre-application meeting, the city shall, within fifteen (15)
         business days after the request, schedule the meeting to review the concept plan and
        give initial feedback. The city staffshall review the submitted concept plan in a pre-
        application meeting scheduled with the applicant and check compliance with the
        city-Is general plan, zoning ordinance, this subdivision ordinance, and other
        appropriate regulations. At the pre-application meeting, the city shall make
        available copies of all applicable land use regulations, a complete list of standards
        required for the project, preliminary and final application checklists. The city staff
        shall verbally advise the applicant regarding the submitted concept plan, specifying
        any inadequacy in the information submitted, noncompliance with city regulations,
        questionable or undesirable design and/or engineering. City staff may also request
        any additional information which may assist them to evaluate the proposed
        subdivision.

     B. The city staff may request additional information, data or studies to be provided for
        the overall development before comments regarding the concept plan are provided.
        Any recommendation given by the city staff may include requirements for the
        overall development as part of its findings on the concept plan.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-
        25-2019)
12.30.010 Purpose Q1 of The the Preliminary Plat


The purpose ofthe preliminary plat is to require formal preliminary approval ofa subdivision
to minimize changes and revisions which might otherwise be necessary on the final plat. The
preliminary plat shall in all respects comply with the provisions of this title and all other
applicable provisions of this code.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.30.020 Application And and Fees

An applicant may file an application for preliminary plat approval with the community
development department on a form prescribed by the city, together with the required number
of drawings sets ofthe preliminary plat, a PDF copy of drawing sets of the preliminary plat,
the application fee as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule, all information and
documentation required by the city's preliminary subdivision application checklist, and an
owner's affidavit. Preliminary approval is required before a final plat application may be
submitted.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.30.030 Preliminary Plat Submittal

The preliminary plat shall include:

     A. Vicinity Map: A vicinity map drawn at a scale of one thousand feet to the inch
        (l,000^:=r:)showing:
             1. All existing and proposed roadways in the vicinity of the development;
             2. A north arrow;

             3. The nearest section corner tie; and

             4. The subdivision name.


     B. Preliminary Plat: A preliminary plat drawn at a scale not larger than one hundred
        feet to the inch (100^1 = 1-3 and prepared, stamped and signed by a licensed
         professional surveyor licensed by the state of Utah, showing:
             1. All facilities within one hundred feet(1003 of the subdivision boundaries;
             2. A north arrow;

             3. The subdivision name;

             4. The layout and names and widths of existing, proposed, and future road
                 rights-of-way. Transportation infrastructure as indicated on the adopted
                 transportation plan or adopted capital facilities plan shall be included in the
                 development plans ofthe proposed subdivision;
             5. A tie to a permanent survey monument at a section comer;
             6. The boundary lines of the subdivision with bearings and distances;
        7. The layout and dimensions of proposed lots with lot areas in square feet;
        8. The location, dimensions and labeling of all other spaces including open
            spaces, parks, trails, and public spaces;
        9. Addresses for each lot and parcel;
       10.Ownership of all adjoining tracts of land; and
       11.The location of manmade features including bridges, railroad tracks, fences
           or walls, and buildings.

C. Grading And and Drainage Plan: A grading and drainage plan drawn to a scale not
   larger than forty feet to the inch (40'= 1-3,showing:
        1. The road and lot layout;
        2. Topography at two foot(23 contour intervals;
        3. A north arrow;

        4. The subdivision name;

        5. Areas of substantial earthmoving and including in such cases an erosion
            control plan;
        6. The location of existing watercourses, canals, ditches, springs, wells,
            culverts, and storm drains;

        7. The location of any five hundred (500) year floodplain, one hundred (100)
            year floodplain, and floodway as designated by the federal emergency
            management agency(FEMA);
        8. Any existing wetland;
        9. All drainage facilities, including water flow directions, ditches, swales,
            gutter flow capacities, inlets, outlets, catch basins, pipes, culverts, outlets
            to off-site facilities, storm water control facilities, control structures, and
            orifice plates planned to accommodate, convey, and control the project-Is
            storm drainage and detention storage for the storm events defined in city of
            Bluffdale storm water design standards manual, and which also comply
            with the adopted standards and specifications; and
        10.The location and dimensions of all existing and proposed easements and
            entities to which they are granted.

D.Utility Plan: A utility plan drawn to a scale not larger than forty feet to the inch (40'
  = 1-3,showing:
        1. The road and lot layout;
        2. A north arrow;

        3. The subdivision name; and

        4. All existing and proposed utilities, including sewer, culinary water.
                secondary water, fire hydrants, storm drains, subsurface drains, gas lines,
                power lines, and streetlights.

   E. Phasing Plan: When a subdivision is proposed to be developed in phases, the
       applicant shall identify the location of all proposed phases along with a proposed
      time line for the construction of proposed public improvements. If any requirement
      of this ordinance is proposed to be satisfied bv relation to or incorporation of
      components of another phase or related development, the applicant shall enter into
       a development agreement with the citv governing the applicable phases or related
       development or otherwise modify the application to satisfV all requirements
       independently of any other phases.
    F. Geotechnical Investigation: The required number of printed and/or digital copies of
       a soils report.
    G. Storm Drainage Report: The required number of printed and/or digital copies of
       report that complies with the city of Bluffdale storm water design standards manual.
    H.Traffic Study: A traffic impact analysis as required by the city engineer.
     I. Title Report: A preliminary title report dated within thirty (30) calendar days of
       application submittal.
    J. Storm Drainage Agreements: Any agreements required for the legal discharge and
       conveyance of storm water drainage.
    K. Evidence Of^Compliance: Evidence of compliance with all applicable federal,
       state, and local laws and regulations if requested by the development review
       committee.

    L.Digital Drawing Copies: Electronic copies of preliminary plat drawings in
       AutoCAD(DWG),Shapefile(SHP)format, and pdf format.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-
       2019)


12.30.040 Review And and Approval

    A. Completeness Determination: Upon receipt of a preliminary subdivision
       application, the planning department and engineering department shall each
       designate one individual to determine whether the application is complete. The city
       shall notify the applicant of the determination in writing.

    B. Review: No later than fifteen (15) business days after receipt of a complete
       application for preliminary plat approval, city staff shall review the application for
       compliance with adopted standards and ordinances. This review, or any review bv
       the citv prior to approval of the preliminary plat and submission of a complete final
        plat application including subdivision improvement plans may not be considered a
       substantive review of any subdivision improvement plans in accordance with Utah
       Code Section lQ-9a-604.2.

    C. Recommendation And and Approval: The administrative land use authority as set
       forth in section 11,30.090 of the land use ordinance shall review the preliminary
        plat submittal and determine compliance with the standards and criteria set forth in
        this chapter and all other ordinances this code, including the land use ordinances,
        general plan, transportation plan, and city standard specifications and design
        criteria. Notice of any public meeting(s) shall be given in accordance with section
        11.30.060 of this code. Upon receiving a recommendation, the administrative land
        use authority may approve, approve with conditions or, if the application does not
        comply with regulations,terminate processing the application until it complies with
        adopted standards and ordinances. The administrative land use authority shall make
        findings on the record specifying any inadequacy in the application and
        noncompliance with city regulations in the event of termination.
     D.Limitation       Approval: Granting of preliminary plat approval may not constitute
       a final acceptance of the subdivision by the city. Approval of the preliminary plat
        may not relieve the applicant of the responsibility to comply with all required
       conditions and ordinances, and to provide the improvements and easements
        necessary to meet all city standards and requirements.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.40.010 Final Plat; Purpose

The purpose of the final plat is to require formal approval by the city before a subdivision
plat is recorded in the office of the county recorder.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.40.020 Application Ami and Fees

Following approval of the preliminary plat the final plat, along with the required number of
sets of required information shall be submitted at the time of final plat application and shall
conform in all respects to those requirements specified in this title. The applicant shall file
an application for final plat approval with the community development department on a form
prescribed by the city, together with the required number ofcopies ofthe proposed final plat
drawings, and all information and documentation required by the city's final subdivision
application checklist. The drawings and technical specillcations on the citv's final
subdivision application checklist comprise the "subdivision improvement plans" as defined
in Utah Code Section lQ-9a-604.2.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.40.030 Final Plat; Preparation Ami and Required Information

All required materials, including applicable fees paid pursuant to the adopted consolidated
fee schedule, shall be submitted before review of a final plat may commence.

     A. The final plat shall show the subdivision name in a title heading and the general
        location of the subdivision in bold letters at the top of the sheet.
     B. The plat shall contain a north arrow and scale no larger than one hundred feet to
        the inch (lOO'l
        = 1")of the drawing. The month and year shall be indicated under the title heading
        and location designation at the top of the plat.
     C. An accurate and complete survey to second order accuracy shall be made ofthe land
   being subdivided. A traverse ofthe exterior boundaries ofthe tract and ofeach block
   when computed from field measurements on the ground shall close within a
   tolerance ofone foot(I'D to twenty thousand feet (20,000^1).
D.Plats shall include accurately drawn boundaries showing the bearings and
   dimensions of all boundary lines of the subdivision tied to public survey
   monuments.

E. The final plat shall show all survey and mathematical information necessary to
   locate all monuments and to locate and retrace all interior and exterior boundary
   lines appearing thereon, including bearing and distance of straight lines, central
   angle, radius and arc length of curves with associated chord bearing and distance,
   and such information as may be necessary to determine the location of beginning
   and ending points of curves. All property corners and monuments shall show the
   calculated county coordinates.
F. All lots, blocks, and parcels offered for dedication for any purpose shall be
   designated with dimensions, boundaries and courses clearly shown. The square
   footage of each lot shall be shown. Parcels being dedicated, including streets and
   easements, shall be clearly designated on the plat. Sufficient linear, angular and
   curved data shall be shown to determine readily the bearing and length of the
    boundary lines of every block, lot and parcel which is a part thereof.
G.The plat shall show the right-of-way lines of each street, the width of any portion
  being dedicated, and widths of any existing dedications. The widths and locations
  of adjacent streets and other public properties within fifty feet (50^ of the
  subdivision shall be shown with dotted lines. If any street in the subdivision is a
  continuation or an approximate continuation of an existing street, the conformity or
  the amount of nonconformity of such existing streets shall be accurately shown.
  Proposed street names shall be provided on the plat for review. Names cannot be
  duplicated within the county and must be approved by Salt Lake county and the city
  ofBluffdale. Streets which are a continuation ofexisting streets shall carry the same
   name.


H.The plat shall show the location and dimension of any existing or proposed
  easements, rights of way,or other encumbrances.
 I.The plat shall specify the owner and entity in charge of maintaining all public and
   private infrastructure.
J. Construction Plans: All plan shall adhere to city standards, specification, and
    manuals. Plans shall include, but are not limited to, the following sheets: plat,
   demolition,site plan, grading and drainage, utility, signage and striping, and details.
   The following features, at a minimum,shall be shown on the construction plans:
        1. Profiles showing existing and proposed elevations along centerlines of all
            roads, along with typical cross sections. Where a proposed road intersects
            an existing road or roads, the elevation along the centerline of the existing
            road or roads within one hundred feet(100^ of the intersection shall be
            shown. Approximate radii of all curves, lengths of tangents and central
            angles on all streets.
        a. Plans and profiles showing the locations of curb and gutter,
            sidewalks, drainage easements, irrigation ditches, rights-of-way,
            manholes and catch basins, street trees, streetlights and signs, the
            location, size and invert elevations of existing and proposed
            sanitary sewers and stormwater drains, fire hydrants, connections
            to any existing or proposed utility systems, and exact location and
            size of all water, gas or other underground utilities or structures.
            All street monuments shall be indicated on the construction plans.
        b. Underground Location: Utility facilities including power, gas,
            telephone and cable, shall be located underground in new
            subdivisions when underground location does not violate safety
            standards of the particular utility, and underground location does
            not impose additional maintenance burden on city streets and
            water/sewer personnel. Underground service connections for water
            and sewer shall be installed to the street property line of each
            platted lot at the expense of the applicant and shall be marked on
            the surface, as shall casings or conduits for all other underground
            utilities in accordance with adopted standards.

2. Location, size, elevation and other appropriate description of any existing
    facilities or utilities, including, but not limited to, existing streets, sewers,
    drains, water mains, easements, water bodies, streams, swamps, wetlands,
    buildings, features noted on the official zone map, point of connection to
    proposed facilities and utilities within the subdivision, and each tree or
    group of trees to be preserved. The water elevations of adjoining lakes or
    streams at the date of the survey, and the approximate high and low water
    elevations of such lakes or streams. All elevations shall refer to the NAVD
   88. The horizontal datum shall be to the state plane Utah central zone, NAD
   83, in U.S. feet, and tied to a county section comer used as a basis of
   bearing. If the subdivision borders a lake, river or stream, the distances and
   bearings of a meander line established not less than twenty feet(20^ back
   from the ordinary high water mark ofsuch waterways.
3. Topography at the same scale as the preliminary plat with contour intervals
    at two feet (20, referred to sea level datum. All datum provided shall be
    the latest applicable U.S. geodetic survey datum and should be so noted on
    the plat.
4. All other specifications, details and references required by adopted design
    guidelines and standard specifications, construction specifications and
    standard drawings, including a site grading plan for the entire subdivision.
5. Title, name, contact information, signature and seal of the professional
    engineer preparing the plans, and date, including revision dates.
6. A limits of disturbance, revegetation, and erosion control plan.
7. Signing and striping plan.
K. Lots shall be numbered consecutively under a definite system. Numbering shall
   continue throughout the subdivision with no omissions or duplications. Each lot
   shall show the street addresses assigned thereto according to the standard addressing
    methods approved by the city. In the case ofcomer lots, an address will be assigned
   for each street frontage.
L.Streets shall be numbered in accordance with and in conformity with the street
   numbering system adopted by the city. Named streets shall also be numbered.
M.The side lines of all easements shall be shown by fine dashed lines. The width of all
   easements and bearing, distances, dimension, ties or other depictions to definitely
   locate the same on the ground shall be shown. All easements shall be clearly labeled
   and identified.

N.The plat shall show all stakes, monuments and other evidence indicating the
   boundaries of the subdivision as found on the site. Any monument or bench mark
   that is disturbed or destroyed before acceptance of all improvements shall be
    replaced by the applicant under the direction of the city engineer. The following
    monuments shall be shown on the final plat:
         1. The location of all monuments placed in making the survey, including a
             statement as to what, if any, points were reset by ties; and
        2. All right-of-way monuments to be set or otherwise installed at angle points
            and intersections as approved by the city engineer.

O. The final plat shall contain the name, stamp and signature of the licensed
   professional surveyor who prepared the plat, together with the date of the survey,
   the scale of the map and number of sheets. The following certificates,
   acknowledgments and descriptions shall appear on the title sheet of the final plat,
   and such certificates may be combined where appropriate:
         1. A registered land surveyor-Is-^certificate of survey;-^l[
        2. An owner'ls dedication certificate with appropriate notary public
           acknowledgments;
        3. A correct metes and bounds description of all property included within the
            subdivision;

        4. The signatures of the water provider, sewer provider, natural gas provider,
            electric power provider, local telephone service provider, Utah county
            and/or Salt Lake county health department, and blocks for signatures ofthe
            city engineer, city attorney, the designated administrative land use
            authority and an attestation by the city recorder, and a signature block for
            the county recorder in the lower right comer of the final plat; and
        5. Such other affidavits, certificates, acknowledgments, endorsements and
            notarial seals as are required by law, this title, or by the city attorney.

P. Prior to recordation of the plat, the applicant shall submit a title report prepared and
    dated not more than thirty(30)calendar days before the proposed recordation ofthe
       final plat, to be reviewed by the city attorney.
    Q. When a subdivision contains lands which are reserved in private ownership for
       community use, including common areas, the applicant shall submit with the
       final plat the name, proposed articles of incorporation and bylaws of the owner,
       or organization empowered to own, maintain and pay taxes on such lands and
       common areas and any access easements.
    R. The applicant shall submit a street tree plan in accordance with chapter 7.40.
    S. Ifthe proposed subdivision is located within one thousand feet(1,0000 ofa vested
        critical infrastructure materials operation as set forth in Utah Code § 10-9a-9 the
       following note shall be included on the final plat:
       Vested Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations - This property is located in the
       vicinity ofan established vested critical infrastructure materials operations in which
       critical infrastructure materials operations have been afforded the highest priority
       use status. It can be anticipated that such operations may now or in the future be
       conducted on property included in the critical infrastructure materials protection
       area. The use and enjoyment ofthis property is expressly conditioned on acceptance
       of any annoyance or inconvenience that may result from such normal critical
       infrastructure materials operations.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.40.040 Review by City Staff

    A. No later than twenty (20) business days of receipt of a complete final subdivision
       plat application, the city staff shall review the final plat and construction drawings
       conformance to adopted standards and ordinances and provide a written response
       to the applicant. If the final plat complies, the staff shall forward the plat to the
       administrative land use authority as designated in section 11.30.090 of this code. If
       the plat does not comply, the city staff shall return the plat to the applicant with
       comments for the applicant's revision with an index of requested modifications or
       additions including citations to the ordinances, standards, and specifications on
       which the requested modifications or additions are based. (Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-
       2019)

    B. The city may not require more than four (4) review cycles on a complete final
       subdivision plat application, which includes the subdivision improvement plans. A
       review cycle means the occurrence of:
            1. The applicant's submittal of a complete final subdivision application
                including subdivision improvement plans;
            2. The city's review ofthat application;
            3. The city's formal written response from the designated reviewers after
                review by the city staff and all required entities; and
            4. The applicant's reply to the city's response that addresses each ofthe city's
                required modifications or requests for additional information.
    C. Communication between the applicant and the city staff other than the formal and
       complete review responses from the designated reviewers may not be deemed a
       response or reply for purposes of review cycles. Any response from an applicant
       that does not address each of the city's required modifications or requests for
       additional information in a comprehensive and specific manner, including citations
       to applicable standards and ordinances and including an index ofresponses, or does
       not bring the application into compliance with city ordinances may not be deemed
       a response for purposes of review cycles.
    D. The city shall respond to an applicant's revised plan within twenty (20) business
       days unless the applicant's revised plan was submitted more than twenty (20)
       business days after the city's written response.
    E. The timeframes identified in subsection A and D above, and the limit identified in
       subsection B above, do not apply to subdivision applications for multifamily,
       commercial, or industrial uses, or any subdivision affecting property within
       identified geological hazard areas.

12.40.050 Approval by Administrative Land Use Authority

    A. The administrative land use authority may not be bound by the recommendations of
       the city staff and may set its own conditions and requirements consistent with this
       title. If the administrative land use authority determines that the final plat is in
       conformity with the requirements of this title, adopted standards, other applicable
       ordinances, and any reasonable conditions as recommended by the city staff, it may
       approve the final plat. If the administrative land use authority determines that the
       final plat is not in conformity with this title, adopted standards, other applicable
       ordinances or any reasonable conditions imposed, the administrative land use
       authority may terminate processing the application until it complies with adopted
       standards and ordinances. The administrative land use authority shall make findings
       on the record specifying any inadequacy in the application and noncompliance with
       city regulations in the event oftermination.
    B. Minor Subdivisions: A "Ilminor-" subdivision shall be defined as a subdivision of
       ten (10) or fewer lots from a parcel or a phase of lots which have received prior
       approval in the form of an approved site plan, project plan, development agreement
       or similar instrument.

            1. Applications for a minor subdivision shall include the materials set forth in
                this chapter and shall be reviewed for compliance with adopted standards
                and ordinances by the city-Is development review committee(DRC).
            2. Following the review and recommendation ofthe DRC the application shall
                be forwarded to the administrative land use authority as set forth in section
                11.30.090 of this code for their decision. The administrative land use
                authority may, after review of the plan and comment from other
                departments and agencies, direct the applicant to follow the standard
                approval process required for subdivisions, as described in this title. The
                administrative land use authority may take the following into account when
                determining whether the application will be required to follow the standard
                approval process:
                    a. The size and phasing of the proposed development; and
                     b. Compliance with adopted city ordinances, standards and master
                         plans, and development agreements(if applicable);
    C. Appeal: The applicant may appeal the decision of the administrative land use
       authority in accordance with section 11.30.040 ofthis code to the designated appeal
       authority as set forth in section 11.30.090 ofthis code.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.40.060 Recording of Final Plat

    A. After receiving approval from the designated administrative land use authority and
       all required signatures on the mylar have been completed, the final plat shall be
       presented by the city recorder to the county recorder for recordation, provided
       improvements have been completed and accepted or an improvement guarantee
       agreement has been executed.
    B. Acceptance Of Dedication Offers: Acceptance of formal offers of dedications of
       streets, public areas, easements and parks shall be by ordinance of the city council
       when a final plat is not prepared.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.50.010 General Provisions


    A. Minor Subdivisions: A "minor" subdivision shall be defined as a subdivision often
       (10)or fewer lots from a parcel or a subdivision ofany number oflots from a parcel
       within a phase of an approved project plan.
           1. Commercial, industrial, and multifamily subdivisions and condominium
               plats are considered additional types of minor subdivisions for review and
               approval purposes.
    B. Applications for a minor subdivision shall include the materials set forth in this
       chapter for both preliminary and final plat processes and shall be reviewed for
       compliance with adopted standards and ordinances by the city'ls development
       review committee(DRC).
    C. Following the review and recommendation of the DRC the application shall be
       forwarded to the administrative land use authority as set forth in section 11.30.090
       of this code for a final decision. The administrative land use authority may, after
       review of the plan and comment from other departments and agencies, direct the
       applicant to follow the standard approval process required for subdivisions, as
       described in this title. The administrative land use authority may take the following
       into account when determining whether the application will be required to follow
       the standard approval process:
            1. The size and phasing ofthe proposed development;
            2. Compliance with adopted city ordinances, standards and master plans.

    D.Appeal: The applicant may appeal the decision of the administrative land use
      authority in accordance with section 11.30.040 ofthis code to the designated appeal
      authority as set forth in section 11.30.090 ofthis code.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)
12.60.010 Petition for Amendment


    A. Property Owner: Any fee owner ofproperty lying within a recorded subdivision plat
        may petition the city requesting to vacate, alter or amend the subdivision plat. The
        petition shall include:
             1. The name and address of all owners of record of the land contained in the
                 entire plat;
             2. The name and address of all affected entities;

             3. The signature ofeach ofthe owners identified in subsections A1 and A2 of
                 this section who consent to the petition; and
             4. The fee as set forth in the city consolidated fee schedule.

    B. City: The city on its own initiative may consider the vacation, alteration or
       amendment of a subdivision plat. The procedure for such consideration shall be as
        set out in this chapter.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.60.020 Amendment Procedure


     A. Recommendation: Upon receipt ofa petition to vacate, alter, or amend a subdivision
        plat, the matter shall be referred to the administrative land use authority as
        designated in section 11.30.090 ofthis code for consideration.
     B. Public Meeting: The administrative land use authority shall hold a public meeting
        wherein the application is reviewed and a decision is issued. Notice of the public
        meeting shall be given as provided in section 11.30.060 ofthis code.
    C. Vacating A Public Street, Right-Of-Way Or Easement: A petition under this section
       that proposes to vacate some or all of a public street, right-of-way or easement shall
       comply with state code.
    D. Notice: Notice shall be given in accordance with section 11.30.060 of this code.
       (Ord. 2019-17,9- 25-2019)


12.60.030 Amended Plat Requirements

Prior to the administrative land use authority-J.s approval of a petition or proposal to amend
a subdivision plat, the petitioner or sponsor shall deliver to the city an amended plat map
and supporting information incompliance with the requirements ofsection 12.40.030 ofthis
title. The amended plat map shall be accompanied by the appropriate recording fee to provide
for recordation ofthe map with the county recorder.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.60.040 Lot Line Adjustments; Joining Lots; Parcel Boundary Adjustments;
Boundary Line Agreements
    A. Lot Line Adjustments: Consenting owners of adjoining properties may relocate the
       mutual property boundary line between their adjoining lots pursuant to this section.
       Lot line adjustments within recorded subdivisions may be required to be processed
        as a plat amendment.
             1. The designated administrative land use authority for lot line adjustments is
                set forth in section 11.30.090 ofthis code.
             2. Applications shall:
                     a. Be filed jointly by the owners of both subject properties.
                     b. Include the legal description of each original property.
                     c. Include the proposed adjusted legal description of each property as
                         proposed. Legal descriptions shall be prepared by a certified
                         surveyor or engineer licensed in the state of Utah.

             3. The administrative land use authority shall approve and provide a notice of
                 approval to the applicants for applications that comply with the following
                 requirements:
                     a. No new dwelling or lot or housing unit will result from the
                        adjustment.
                     b. The properties as proposed comply with all adopted standards and
                         ordinances.


             4. The property owners that are a party to the application shall record with the
                 Salt Lake County Recorder-Is office the notice of approval and a valid
                 document of conveyance that results in the property boundaries described
                 by the legal descriptions submitted with the lot line adjustment application.

    B. Joining Lots: A fee owner may join two (2) or more of the petitioner fee owner^s
       contiguous lots as long as the joined lots comply with this code. The administrative
        land use authority for joining lots shall be set forth in section 11.30.090 ofthis code.
     C. Parcel Boundary Adjustments And Boundary Line Agreements: A parcel boundary
        adjustment or boundary line agreement subject to Utah Code §§ 10-9a-523 and 10-
        9a-524, as amended, may not require review by the city.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.70.010 Approval Process


Applications to create a condominium plat shall follow the application and approval process
as set forth in chapter 12.60: Plat Amendments, in accordance with the standards and
regulations herein and as prescribed in state law.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.80.010 Subdivision Layout


The subdivision layout shall conform to the city-3 standards and ordinances.(Ord. 2019-17,
9-25-2019)

12.80.020 Lots


    A. Developable Lots: All subdivisions should result in the creation of lots which are
       developable and capable of being built upon. A subdivision may not create lots
       which would make improvement impractical due to size, shape,steepness ofterrain,
       location of watercourses, problems ofsewerage, driveway grades, or other physical
        conditions.

    B. Frontage: All lots or parcels created by the subdivision shall have frontage on a
       street, improved to standards hereinafter required. This standard may not apply to
       commercial development given adequate cross access is provided between any and
        all affected developments and/or properties. Land designated as right-of-way shall
        be separate and distinct from lots adjoining such right-of-way and not be included
        in the area of such lots.

    C. Double Frontage Lots: Double frontage lots shall be avoided except where necessary
       to provide separation of residential development from traffic arterials or to
       overcome specific disadvantages oftopography and orientation. The street frontage
       adjacent to the rear of any approved double frontage lots shall be improved by the
       applicant in accordance with the standards set forth in the city'ls subdivision
       standards. Unless specifically approved by the city engineer, no double frontage lot
        may have vehicular access from the street frontage adjacent to the rear of the lot.
    D. Minimum Area, Dimensions: The minimum area and dimensions of all lots shall
       conform to the requirements of the zoning ordinance for the district in which the
        subdivision is located.

    E. Side Lines: The side lines ofall lots, so far as possible, shall be at right angles to the
       street which the lot faces, or approximately radial to the center of curves, if such
       street is curved. Side lines of lots shall be approximately radial to the center of a
        cul-de-sac on which the lots face.

     F. Lot Divisions: A lot may not be divided by a city limit line or county boundary line.
    G. Remnants: Remnants of property may not be left in the subdivision which do not
       conform to lot requirements or are not required or suitable for common open space,
       private utility or public purpose.
     H.Parcels Included in Plat: All portions of all parcels from which a subdivision is
        created shall be included within the subdivision plat.
      I. Building Envelopes: Building envelopes shall be required to be shown on all final
         plats designating the buildable area on each lot. Building envelopes shall take into
         account minimum setback requirements, utility and access easements, physical
         constraints, such as steep slopes, waterways, wetlands,faults, and any other features
         deemed significant by the designated administrative land use authority. The accurate
         identification of the building envelope in the field is the responsibility of the
         developer. A certificate of survey, prepared by a registered land surveyor, licensed
         in the state of Utah, may be required. All existing and new structures in a subdivision
        are required to satisfy the lot area, setback and frontage requirements of the zone in
        which they are located.
     J. Access: Lots may not, in general, derive access exclusively from an arterial or
        collector street. Where driveway access from an arterial or collector street may be
        necessary for several adjoining lots, the city may require that such lots be served by
        a combined access drive in order to limit possible traffic hazard on the arterial or
        collector streets. Where possible, driveways shall be designed and arranged to avoid
        requiring vehicles to back into traffic on arterial or collector streets.(Ord. 2019-17,
        9-25-2019)


12.80.030 Streets


    A. Location: Streets shall be located within a subdivision so they connect with existing
       streets. If the adjoining land is zoned for residential use, streets shall be located so
       that the adjacent land may be most efficiently subdivided. Development on pre
       existing private rights-of-way is permitted in accordance with BCC 11.160.250.
       Prior to final plat approval, the city shall make the determination as to whether each
       street is to be public or private. Such status shall be shown on the plat.
             1. Street systems in new subdivisions shall be laid out to eliminate or avoid
                 new perimeter half streets. The city engineer may authorize a new
                 perimeter street, however, the applicant shall be required to improve half
                 the width of the right of way plus ten feet (lO'J, and dedicate the entire
                 required street right of way width, if it is in the applicant-^s control to do
                so.


             2. Where a subdivision borders an existing narrow road or where the general
                 plan, transportation plan, or capital facilities plan indicates plans for
                 realignment or widening a road that would require use of some of the land
                 in the subdivision, the applicant may be required to improve and dedicate
                such areas for widening or realignment of such roads that are necessary and
                for the benefit of the subdivision. Frontage roads and streets shall be
                improved and dedicated at the applicant-Is expense to the full width as
                 required by this title.

    B. Cross Section: All streets, whether public or private, shall conform to the cross
       section designated by the city'ls adopted transportation plan and adopted standards
       and specifications. At present it is the preference ofthe city for all subdivision streets
       to be dedicated public streets. However, if private streets are approved, they must be
       constructed to meet all requirements of public streets In case the city is required to
       maintain the streets in the future. The land area for streets or right-of-way may not
       be included in or counted toward the minimum area required for a lot.
    C. Curbs, Gutters, Sidewalks: Curbs, gutters, and sidewalks shall be installed on
       existing and proposed streets by the applicant in all subdivisions in accordance with
       adopted standards and specifications.
    D. Cul-De-Sacs and Dead-end Streets: In order to provide adequate emergency access
       to and from the development and proper circulation, two (2) points of ingress and
       egress shall be required in all subdivisions with the following exceptions:
             1. Any subdivision, or portion of a subdivision, which cannot provide two(2)
                 points of ingress and egress in a practical manner shall be limited to no
                 more than thirty (30)single family residential lots or units or one hundred
                (100) multi-family units; provided, that in no case may the single
                 ingress/egress exceed a maximum of one thousand feet(1,0000 length,
                 regardless of the number of dwelling units accessing from it, unless
                 specifically allowed by other applicable provisions of the city land use
                ordinances or the adopted building or fire codes. This measurement shall
                begin at the point at which a person last has a choice between at least two
                (2)public streets or rights-of-way for travel.
             2. A subdivision, or portion of a subdivision, which will be served by more
                than one(1)point of ingress and egress in the future may receive approval
                for no more than thirty (30) single family residential lots or units or one
                hundred (100) multi-family units until a second point of ingress and egress
                is provided and so indicated on the final plat; provided,that in no case may
                the single ingress/egress exceed a maximum ofthree thousand feet(3,000-1)
                in length, regardless of the number of dwelling units accessing from it,
                 unless specifically allowed by other applicable provisions of the city land
                 use ordinances. This measurement shall begin at the point at which a person
                last has a choice between at least two(2)public streets or rights of way for
                 travel. The second access, when built, shall be constructed in accordance
                 with adopted standards and specifications.

    E. Bridges: Bridges of primary benefit to the applicant shall be constructed at the full
       expense of the applicant without reimbursement from the city. The sharing of
       expense for the construction of bridges not of primary benefit to the applicant shall
        be in accordance with adopted state law provisions.(Ord. 2019-17,9-25-2019)
12.80.040 Drainage

The applicant shall construct and install drainage systems conforming to the city'Is adopted
standards, specifications, and manuals.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.80.050 Utilities


    A. Underground: All required utilities shall be provided in accordance with adopted
       standards. All underground utilities specified in this section shall be installed prior
       to the installation of road base, surfacing, curbs, gutters and sidewalks. The
       applicant shall stub all utility services to outside the city right-of-way unless
       specified differently by adopted standards and specifications. Underground utilities
       may be installed only after streets have been rough graded to a line and grade
       approved by the city engineer.
    B. Culinary Water: A culinary water supply, which must be approved by the city
       engineer, shall be available to each lot in the subdivision and shall be provided in
   conformance with the standards and rules and regulations of the city. Where an
   approved culinary water supply is available, the city will require to be installed, at
   the applicant-Is expense, water mains, valves, and service laterals to each lot within
   the subdivision. Private water system shall meet rules and requirements set by the
   Utah Division of Drinking Water(DDW)and provide documentation of approval
    by DDW to the city.
C. Fire Hydrants: Fire hydrants shall be installed at locations determined by the city
   engineer and the fire chief in accordance with adopted standards and specifications.
    Fire hydrants shall be governed by the requirements ofthe fire code adopted by the
   city.
D.Sanitary Sewer: The applicant shall install sanitary sewer facilities under the
  direction of and in accordance with the specifications, review and approval of the
  South Valley Sewer District.
E. Electric Facilities: The applicant shall install electrical facilities under the direction
   of and in accordance with the specifications, review, and approval of the local
    electrical power provider.
F. Supplementary Utility Facilities (Natural Gas, Telecom, Communications): The
   applicant shall install natural gas facilities, telecommunications, and
    communications facilities under the direction of and in accordance with the
    specifications, review, and approval of local utility providers.
0. Subsurface Water Drains: Subsurface water drains may be installed at the option of
   the applicant. All plans for such subsurface drains proposed by the applicant shall
    be reviewed and approved by the city engineer, or their designee. All such
   subsurface drains shall meet the minimum requirements for design and construction
   of such drains, as specified by the city. The city may, based on the findings and
   recommendations of a soils report and other relevant analysis, require that no
    basements are constructed in certain areas with identified high water tables. If no
    basements are allowed, a note shall be placed on the plat reflecting this requirement.
H.Streetlights: Streetlights shall be provided in all subdivisions in accordance with
   adopted standards and ordinances.
 Futility Easements: Utility easements shall be provided within the subdivision as
   required for public utility purposes. All lots shall include at a minimum a ten foot
   (lOQ easement along the front lot line and may be required around the entire
   perimeter, if required by the City Engineer. Additional easements, or increased
   width of easements, may be required as necessary to provide for adequate utility
   service and/or drainage within the subdivision and adjoining parcels. Where
   topographical or other conditions make it impractical to include utilities within
   these easements, perpetual unobstructed easements at least ten feet (1OC) in width
   shall be provided with satisfactory access to the nearest public right-of-way.
   Whenever possible. City utilities shall be installed within dedicated public rights-
   of-way or other streets. Dry utilities are preferred to be installed in public utility
   easements where possible. Where city utilities are located outside of the public
   right-of-way a perpetual unobstructed easement at least ten feet(1OQ in width shall
   be provided with satisfactory access to the nearest public right-of- way in the name
       of the city. All utilities easements shall be indicated on the plat.
    J. Irrigation and Secondary Water: The applicant shall be responsible for dedicating
        adequate secondary water in accordance with section 8.50.030 of this code. Unless
        otherwise provided in this code, adequate facilities shall be provided within the
       subdivision for the utilization of secondary water as irrigation. (Ord. 2019-17, 9-
       25-2019)


12.80.060 Landscaping and Trees

    A. Landscaping: A landscaping plan shall be required for all subdivisions within the
       city detailing the landscaping in all public landscaping improvements as defined in
        Utah Code Section 10-9a-604.5 of the development and any other area required to
        be landscaped as a condition of development approval. All landscaping plans shall
       indicate who will be responsible for landscaping installation and how maintenance
       ofthe landscaped areas will be performed and by whom, but the city may not dictate
        who is the responsible party for installation or costs of private landscaping
       improvements. All landscape plans and irrigation systems will conform to the cityCs
       adopted standards and specifications. A landscaping plan for all park strips is
       required to be submitted with the final plat application for all subdivisions. This
        plan shall indicate the plan for ground cover within park strips, and shall also include
       details on the irrigation system required to support the designated ground cover and
       required street trees. Drip or similar deep watering systems shall be indicated where
       street trees are present within the landscaping plan.
    B. Street Trees:

             1. Street Trees Required: All developers of residential subdivisions in the city
                 shall provide street trees as part of the landscaping plan in order to reduce
                 heat, dust, glare and the need for cooling and heating; to help clean and
                 oxygenate the air; to reduce road noise; to prevent erosion and promote soil
                 health; to mask undesirable views and enhance pleasing views; to develop
                 continuity among developments; and to generally enhance the appearance
                 of the city streets and promote a sense of civic pride and vitality. A street
                 tree plan, which is in accordance with city standards and chapter 7.40 of
                 this code, shall be submitted with the final plat application for all
                 subdivisions. The applicant and homeowner are responsible for ensuring
                 the installation of the required number, species, and caliper of street trees,
                 per the approved street tree plan, prior to the issuance of a certificate of
                 occupancy for any dwelling.
            2. Tree Guarantee:
                       a. An agreement guaranteeing street tree installation is required to be
                           provided with all building permit issuance in subdivisions where
                          street trees are required.

            3. Street Tree Installation: All residential subdivisions shall have street trees
                and irrigation systems installed within the park strip between the sidewalk
                 and curb. In areas where there is no sidewalk or no park strip between the
                 sidewalk and curb, street trees shall be installed at adjacent to the right-of-
                 way. Street trees shall be installed in accordance with adopted standards
                 and specifications.. Irrigation systems shall be professionally installed by a
                 licensed contractor, and shall include an automatic watering system
                 appropriate to the approved tree and park strip planting plan. The developer
                 shall prepare a street tree plan for each residential subdivision which shall
                 be reviewed by the DRC.Tree species selection shall vary by street to add
                 variation in form,texture,color and general visual effect to the subdivision.
                 A diversity of species shall also be provided to minimize the danger of
                 losing an entire monospecific planting to blight, insects or some other
                 species-specific condition. After installation by the applicant, individual
                 homeowners are responsible for the irrigation and maintenance ofrequired
                 park strip street trees.

     C. Open Space Requirements: Units may be clustered in the most suitable and least
        sensitive portions ofthe site with common open space corridors separating clusters,
        in accordance with adopted ordinances. Any open space corridors should be
        designed to coincide with significant vegetation and in many cases left natural.
        Open space areas will be the maintenance responsibility of a homeowners'l
        association, unless dedicated and accepted by the city. Open space conservation
        easements dedicated in perpetuity to a qualified land trust are encouraged to prevent
        future development.
     D.Fencing: Each applicant shall be required to furnish and install fences when the city
        determines that a hazardous condition exists. The fences shall be constructed in
        accordance with section 11.160.040 of the city's land use ordinances and shall be
        noted as to height and material on the final plat. Fences located within five feet(5')
        of a fire hydrant must be approved by the fire chief.(Ord. 2019-17,9-25-2019)

12.80.070 Improvements Required

All improvements shall be installed in accordance with the city's subdivision standards and
specifications,the adopted capital facilities plan,the adopted transportation plan, the adopted
parks and trails plan, the development agreement between the applicant and the city (if
applicable) and all other applicable city ordinances and regulations.

     A. Costs of Improvements: All required improvements shall be completed by the
        applicant, at their expense, without reimbursements by the city, and in accordance
        with adopted standards, fee schedules, and ordinances.
    B. Temporary Improvements: The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of
       temporary improvements required by the city, and shall maintain them for the
       period specified. Prior to construction of any temporary facility or improvement,
       the applicant shall file with the city engineer a separate suitable guarantee, in
       accordance with this title for temporary facilities which ensures that the temporary
       facilities will be properly constructed maintained and removed.
    C. Maintenance of Improvements: The maintenance of all required improvements in
       the subdivision is the applicant's responsibility until accepted by the city.
    D.Fees Paid Prior to Acceptance: All applicable application, field engineering,
       inspections, and inspection administration fees shall be paid prior to acceptance of
       the subdivision.(Ord. 2019- 17,9-25-2019)

12.90.010 Assurance for Completion and Maintenance of Improvements

    A. Completion of Improvements: Before the final plat is signed by the city engineer,
       all applicants shall be required to complete any and all improvements required for
       development or provide an improvement completion assurance according to
       subsection B of this section. The applicant shall dedicate all applicable land and
       public improvements to the city, including any water right transfers, conservation
       easements or dedications ofpublic lands to land trusts, free and clear ofall liens and
       encumbrances on the property and public improvements thus dedicated.
    B. Improvement Completion Assurance:
            1. The applicant shall post an acceptable improvement completion assurance
               ("completion assurance") prior to the recording of the final plat, in an
                amount estimated by the city engineer sufficient to secure to the city the
                satisfactory construction, installation, dedication of all required
                landscaping and infrastructure improvements. The amount of the
                completion assurance shall be in an amount or value equal to one hundred
                percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the required improvements and
                 amenities as determined by the city engineer.
            2. The completion assurance shall comply with all statutory requirements and
                shall be satisfactory to the city attorney as to form, sufficiency and manner
                ofexecution as setforth by the city attorney. The completion assurance may
                not be used to pay any contractual obligations ofthe applicant.
            3.       a. The completion assurance agreement shall be completed on the city
                        supplied bond agreement form for the full subdivision
                         improvements cost and be in one ofthe following forms:
                            1. An escrow agreement and deposit account with a federally
                               insured bank or credit union making proceeds available to
                               the city in the case of the developer's default upon the city
                               presenting a sight draft at an office located within fifty(50)
                               miles ofthe city.(Three party bond agreement.)
                            2. Cash or a cashier's check, for deposit with the city in its
                               bank accounts.(Two party bond agreement.)

                     b. The completion assurance shall be approved by the city engineer
                        with surety and conditions satisfactory to protect the public's
                        interest and ensure construction ofrequired improvements.
                     c. Interest, if any, earned by the city on the deposited sum shall be
                       retained by the city as reimbursement and an offset for the cost of
                       administering the completion assurance.

            4. All required subdivision improvements shall be completed within two (2)
                years of final plat approval. At such time, if the improvements have not
                been completed, the city council may direct the city engineer to complete
                the remaining improvements using the completion assurance.
    C. Temporary Improvements: The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of
       temporary improvements required by the city, and shall maintain them for the
       period specified. Prior to construction of any temporary facility or improvement,
       the developer shall file with the city engineer a separate suitable completion
       assurance, in accordance with this title, for temporary facilities, which ensures that
       the temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained and removed.
    D.Costs of Improvements: All required improvements shall be completed by the
      applicant, at their expense, without reimbursement by the city or any improvement
      district therein, and in accordance with adopted codes,standards,fee schedules and
       ordinances.

    E. Acceptance of Dedication Offers: Acceptance of formal offers of dedications of
       streets, public areas, easements and parks shall be by ordinance of the city council
       when a final plat is not prepared.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.90.020 Commencement of Excavation and Installation ofImprovements

    A. Final Plat Approved and Recorded: Prior to commencement of the construction of
       any subdivision improvements,the final plat ofthe subdivision shall have received
       approval from the city council, and the applicant shall have provided assurance for
       completion and maintenance of improvements, in accordance with section
        12.90.010 ofthis chapter. The final plat shall be recorded in the office ofthe county
       recorder.

    B. Commencement of Construction: Once the requirements listed above have been
       satisfied, the applicant shall request in writing and have attended a preconstruction
       meeting with the city engineer. After the required preconstruction meeting,the city
       engineer shall authorize construction to commence with a written notice to proceed.
       The applicant may be allowed only to clear and grub and perform preliminary
       grading with a valid land disturbance permit issued by the city engineer prior to plat
       approval, in accordance with city ordinances, prior to getting all required permits
       and pre-construction conference. Commencement of excavation and installation of
       subdivision improvements prior to completing the requirements of this section
       before authorized to do so may cause appropriate legal action and enforcement
       remedies by the city.
    C. Weather Passable Access; Fire Protection: No construction may be allowed to begin
       until an all weather passable access in accordance with city standards and as
       approved by the fire chief and city engineer has been completed. No combustible
       construction may be allowed to begin until fire protection in the form of water lines
       and fire hydrants is complete and accepted by the city.
    D.Infrastructure Placed Prior to Occupancy Certificate: No certificate of occupancy,
       either temporary or final, may be granted until the required safety infrastructure has
       been placed in a subdivision and approved by the appropriate service providers, and
       the access to the structure has been completed, inspected and approved.(Ord.2019-
       17, 9-25-2019)

12.90.030 Inspection of Improvements and Release of Improvement Completion
Assurance


    A. General Procedure and Fees: The city engineer or designee shall inspect the required
       improvements and amenities during construction and ensure their satisfactory
       completion. The applicant shall, in accordance with the city fee schedule, pay to the
       city inspection fees. These fees shall be due and payable upon demand of the city.
       Completion assurance and/or improvement warranty monies may not be released
       until all outstanding inspection fees are paid. If the city engineer finds, upon
       inspection, that any of the required improvements have not been constructed in
       accordance with the adopted design guidelines and standard specifications and
       plans, the applicant shall be responsible for completing the improvements. The city
       shall use any and/or all completion assurance monies to complete any
       improvements that are not according to design guidelines and standard
       specifications and have not been rectified by the applicant.
    B. Reduction of Improvement Completion Assurance: At the written request of the
       applicant, the city engineer shall reduce the completion assurance after the city has
       inspected and accepted any portion of the landscaping or infrastructure
       improvements that have been built by the amount relative to the completed work up
       to seventy five percent(75%)of the total cost of all improvements.
    C. Acceptance of Public Improvements: The applicant, upon completion of a portion
       or all of the improvements shall request in writing that the city perform a final
       inspection to verify that the construction of the improvements meets all city
       requirements. The city engineer shall inform the city council of the acceptance of
       the improvements when all items, and punch list Items, if any, are completed.
    D.Release of Improvement Completion Assurance: Subject to the maintenance
      provisions contained in this title, the city may not accept dedication of required
      improvements or amenities, or release a completion assurance, until the city
      engineer has verified that all required improvements and amenities have been
      satisfactorily completed and until the applicant-Is engineer or surveyor has certified
      to the city engineer, through submission of detailed "as-built" drawings of the
      subdivision indicating location, dimensions, materials, improvements and other
      information required by the city engineer, that the layout of the line and grade of all
      public improvements is in accordance with the approved construction plans for the
      subdivision. The "as-built" plans must comply with subsection E, "As-Built
      Drawings",ofthis section. Any or all remaining portion ofthe completion assurance
      will be released after the city has ascertained that "as-built" plans have been
      submitted in accordance with section D. Further, a title insurance policy shall be
   furnished to the city attorney and city engineer indicating that the improvements
   have been completed, are ready for dedication to the local govemment,and are free
   and clear of any and all liens and encumbrances. Upon such approval and
   recommendation, the city manager shall thereafter accept the improvements for
   dedication in accordance with the established policy and procedure.
E. As-Built Drawings:
       1. "As-builts" shall be submitted electronically. Electronic files shall include
           one (1) AutoCAD drawing compatible with AutoCAD version 2004 or
           newer. SHAPE files shall include separate SHAPE files for each utility,
           including drinking water, secondary water, storm drain, sewer, roads and
           parks that are compatible with the latest version of ArcView. AutoCAD
           drawings and SHAPE files shall be in State Plane Coordinates (Utah
           Central Zone - NAD 1983). Survey points of as-builts need to also be
           included in the AutoCAD drawing. A PDF of the final "Record Drawing"
           also needs to be included. All rim and invert elevations need to be shown
           on this drawing, as well as all pipe types and sizes.
       2. "As-built" drawings shall be based on survey information provided by the
           developer-Is engineer or surveyor. The SHAPE files shall include detailed
           information based upon survey points for:
               a. Fire hydrants;
               b. Water lines (size and type);
               c. Water valves;

               d. Water meter boxes;

               e. Pressurized irrigation lines (size and type);
               f. PI valves;
               g. Pump house comers;
               h. Water blowoffs/drain structures;
               i. Air release structures;

               j. Pipe comers;
               k. Roadway centerline;
               1. Stmcture centerline;
               m.Storm drain lines (size and type);
               n. Storm drain manholes(rim and fl elevations);
               o. Storm drain inlets(rim and fl elevations) with any permanent
                   BMPs(flex-storm, dandi bags, and the like) identified;
               p. Storm drain detention/retention structures;
               q. Sewer lines (size and type);
                      r. Sewer manholes(rim and fl elevations);
                      s. Sewer structures;

                      t. Park boundaries; and

                      u. Recreational facilities general locations.(Ord. 2019-17,9-25-2019)

12.90.040 Escrow Deposits for Lot Improvements

Temporary Certificate of Occupancy Limited: When, by reason of the season of the year,
any lot improvements required by the subdivision regulations cannot be performed due to
valid weather^related delays, the city council may, nevertheless, approve the issuance of
temporary certificates of occupancy, provided there is no danger to health, safety or general
welfare, all streets have been paved, and all fire safety provisions are in place. Any deferred
improvements shall post a cash escrow deposit in an amount determined by the city engineer
for the cost of improvements, and shall be installed within six (6) months from the date of
city council approval. The completion assurance covering such lot improvements shall
remain in full force and effect.(Ord. 2019-17, 9-25-2019)

12.90.050 Maintenance ofImprovements

     A. Prior to Completion: The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements
        and amenities on the individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on
         streets and sidewalks until acceptance of the improvements and amenities by the
        city.
     B. Warranty after Acceptance and Dedication: The applicant shall be required to file
        an improvement warranty with the city with the original completion assurance, in
        an amount equal to ten percent(10%) of the estimated construction cost and in a
        form satisfactory to the city attorney, in order to assure the satisfactory condition of
        the required improvements and amenities, including all lot improvements on the
        individual subdivided lots for a period of one (1) year after the date of their
        acceptance by the city manager and city engineer and dedication to the city.(Ord.
        2019-17, 9-25-2019)
                                              B
                                    BLIFFDALE
                  2222 West 14400 South • Bluffdale, Utah 84065 • (801)254-2200
                          Community and Economic Development Department
                                           Planning Division


                                            STAFF REPORT
                                            October 9, 2024



To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Jay Springer, Smith Hartvigsen PLLC; Caitlyn Tubbs,Planning Manager

Re:     Citv Initiated Text Amendment Modifving Various Subdivision Provisions Pursuant to HB476
       (2024). an Update from Prior Adoption to Complv with SB174(2023)
        Application No:         2024-29
        Applicant(s):           City of Bluffdale
        Request:                To consider forwarding a positive recommendation of proposed text
                                amendments to the Bluffdale City Land Use Regulations in Title 12 to
                                comply with new requirements set forth in House Bill 476,including
                                requirements for proposed development agreements and subdivision
                                plat reviews.

SUMMARY
Bluffdale previously adopted changes to Title 12 to comply with the 2023 Utah State Legislature's
Senate Bill 174(SB 174), which amended various land use and development requirements for
municipalities and counties,including subdivision review procedures. The 2024 Utah State Legislature
subsequently adopted House Bill 476(HB 476) which modified sections introduced by SB 174, among
others, affecting certain kinds of subdivisions.

The primary relevant effects of House Bill 476 are:

   •    Establishes that a subdivision improvement plan maybe submitted with either a preliminary
        or final subdivision application but cannot be required for both;
   •    Clarifies that a municipality cannot require more than four review cycles for a subdivision
        improvement plan review and this applies to either the preliminary or final stage of the
        process depending on when the municipality requires a subdivision improvement plan be
       submitted;
   •   Updates certain provisions relating to phasing and development agreements; and
   •   Establishes that a municipality cannot engage in a substantive review outside the review
       cycle.




                                                       Text Amendment Application - City Initiated Subdivisions
                                                               October 16,2024 - Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                        Page 1
Although the current Bluffdale City Code and adopted engineering standards are generally—and
operationally—compliant with State Code,the City has been advised that to ensure clarity,
consistency,and compliance with State Code,several text amendments to Title 12 may be warranted
and are recommended.The proposed text amendments to Title 12 are shown in the attached Exhibit
A.


POSSIBLE FINDINGS FOR TEXT AMENDMENT APPLICATION:
The Planning Commission is encouraged to provide findings for a decision to recommend approval or
deny the text amendment application. Text amendments are discretionary legislative actions by the
City Council following a recommendation from the Planning Commission.

If the Planning Commission determines to recommend approval of the text amendment application,
the following may be possible findings:
1. That the proposed amendments address consistency across most commercial zones and allow
       the property owners,developers and designers flexibility to address unique problems and
     ownership scenarios.
2.   That the Bluffdale City Code adequately addresses minimum requirements and lot standards
     through the site plan review process and adopted building codes.

MODEL MOTIONS- FOR TEXT AMENDMENT APPLICATION:


Motion for Recommendation -"I move we recommend approval to the City Council for the text
amendment application as proposed.Application 2024-29,subject to the conditions and based on the
findings presented in the staff report dated Octobers,2024,(or as modified by the conditions below):"
        1.     List any additional findings and/or conditions...




                                                      Text Amendment Application - City Initiated Subdivisions
                                                              October 16,2024 - Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                       Page 2
