ORDINANCE NO. 2024-10

AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING
BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TITLE 3.60.070

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the “City”) authority to enact
ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council (the “City Council”) considers necessary or
appropriate for the health, safety, and welfare of the City; and

WHEREAS, the City has enacted Title 3.60.070 of the Bluffdale City Code; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds it is in the best interests of the City and its residents to enact
amendments to Title 3.60.070.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH:

SECTION 1. Amendment. Bluffdale City Code is hereby amended as shown on Exhibit A.

SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, ON THIS
/LTEON OF __AFRIL- , 20 2//, BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:

YES NO _ ABSTAIN ABSENT

Councilmember Aston al _
Councilmember Austin a _
Councilmember Crockett Yo _
Councilmember Lord A _
Councilmember Wilding wv _

nan Hall (tie only) _
Mayor] Cada Attest: __ Vf. fl

Natati€ C. Hall

Exhibit A

3.60.070 Processing Of Applications; Local Consent

A.

Each application for a retail or off premise beer retailer or any other allowed alcoholic
beverage license shall be referred to the business license official. Upon receiving the
application and the accompanying information, the business license official shall
submit the request to appropriate city departments for their review and comment. Fre
A request for a retail license shall be reviewed by the city council at a regularly
scheduled meeting not more than forty five (45) days after a complete application is
received. The council shall take public comment on the request. After review of the
request and accompanying information, the council shall vote on whether to grant its

consent for the i issuance of the license. ee eee

premise beer resoiler ieendes ee other aituwerd alcoholic ete licenses, except for

retail licenses, may be approved by the business license official upon a showing of past
compliance with the ordinances, rules and regulations of the city and that the
application meets current ordinances, rules and regulations.
A retail license shall not be granted to a business located within six hundred feet (600')
of any public or private school, church, public library, public playground or public park
as measured from the nearest entrance of the outlet by following the shortest route of
ordinary pedestrian travel to the property boundary of the public or private school,
church, public library, public playground or public park.
Aretail license shall not be granted to any applicant for any location situated within two
hundred feet (200') of any public or private school, church, public library, public
playground, or public park, measured in a straight line from the nearest entrance of the
proposed outlet to the nearest property boundary of the public or private school,
church, public library, public playground, or public park.
The restrictions contained in subsection B of this section govern unless the city council
determines that compliance with the distance requirements would result in peculiar
and exceptional practical difficulties or exceptional and undue hardships in the
granting of a license. In that event the city council, may, after giving full consideration
of all attending circumstances and after compliance with public notice and public
hearing requirements as specified in subsection E of this section, and as allowed by
Utah State Code, authorize a variance from the distance requirements to relieve the
difficulties or hardships, if the variance may be granted without substantial detriment
to the public good and without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this
chapter.
Retail license applicants wishing to request from the city council a variance from the
proximity distance requirement in subsection B of this section shall comply with the
following:

1. Payment Of Fee: Any applicant desiring a variance for which a special public

hearing is required shall pay a fee set by resolution of the city council before the
hearing shall be set or advertised.

Advertising: Notice of a public hearing shall be published once a week for three
(3) consecutive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation. The advertisement
shall state the date, time, location and reason for the public hearing.

Notice To Property Owners: Letters of notice of public hearing shall be mailed at
least ten (10) days in advance of the public hearing to all persons owning
property within six hundred feet (600) of the applicant's premises.

Petition: The applicant shall circulate a petition to each person owning property
within six hundred feet (600') of the applicant's business premises. Such petition
Shall allow the affected property owners to indicate opposition or lack of
opposition to such a license being granted.

Public Hearing: After satisfying the fee and notice requirements, the city council
shall hold a public hearing to consider the granting of a variance from the
distance requirements, as allowed by Utah State Code.

F. Each person granted a license and the employees management and personnel of the
licensee shall abide by the conditions and requirements provided in the alcoholic
beverage control act of the Utah code.

In deciding whether to grant or deny a retail license, the city may also consider the

proximity of any educational, religious, and recreational facility, or any other relevant
factor in reaching a decision on a proposed location.

H. There shall be a limitation on the number of local consents for retail licenses and off
premise beer retailer licenses granted by city of Bluffdale, based on the following
restrictions:

1.

2
3.
4

nau

{jo ON

11.

12.

Off Premise Beer Retailer License: No restrictions on the number of licenses;

. On Premises Banquet License: No restrictions on the number of licenses;

Beer Only Restaurant License: No restrictions on the number of licenses;

Master Full-Service Restaurant License: No restriction on the number of
licenses;

Full Service Restaurant License: No restrictions on the number of licenses;
Master Limited Service Restaurant License: No restrictions on the number of
licenses;

Limited Service Restaurant License: No restrictions on the number of licenses;
Bar Establishment License: One bar license is allowed to be issued in the city;
Single Event License: No restrictions on number of licenses;

. Hotel License: One hotel license is allowed to be issued within the SD-X Gateway

Zoning District in the City.

On premise Beer License: No tavern or other non-restaurant on-premise beer
licenses are allowed to be issued in the city.

Other types of retail licenses not listed are not allowed to be issued in the city.
