CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-20

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 11.30.060 OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TO
REFLECT CHANGES IN STATE CODE REGARDING PUBLIC NOTICE, INCLUDING
ESTABLISHING CLASS A AND CLASS B NOTICES, NOTICE TO MILITARY INSTALLATIONS,
AND NOTICE TO THE UTAH DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION ALONG WITH RELATED
HOUSEKEEPING ITEMS.

WHEREAS the Utah State Legislature passed Senate Bill 43 during the 2023 legislative
session and created two classes of notices: Class A and Class B;

WHEREAS the Utah State Legislature passed House Bill 256 requiring municipalities to
provide notice to military installations for any land use application within 5,000 feet of
military land;

WHEREAS the Utah Department of Transportation formally requested the City of Bluffdale
provide notice to the agency when pending land use applications may affect high priority
transportation corridors in accordance with Utah Code § 10-9a-206;

WHEREAS Section 11.30.060 of the Bluffdale City Code outlines the public notice
requirements for each type of land use application;

WHEREAS the City proposes amendments to Section 11.30.060 of the Bluffdale City Code
to comply with the changes to Utah State Code along with related housekeeping items;

WHEREAS a notice of public hearing for the proposed amendments was provided pursuant
to the Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code;

WHEREAS on August 21, 2024, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing and
unanimously forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposed Text Amendment to
the City Council.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

Section1. Adoption. Ordinance 2024-20 is hereby adopted, amending Section
11.30.060 of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

Section2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.
PASSED AND APPROVED: September 11, 2024

CITY OF BLUFFDALE

A bik Lao

Ma r Natalie C. Hall

ATTEST: [seal]

City Recorder

Voting by the City Council: Yes No Absent

Councilmember Aston a

Councilmember Austin ko
Councilmember Crockett Ya

Councilmember Lord -,
Councilmember Wilding a
EXHIBIT A
11.30.60 Notice Requirements And Public Hearings

1. Procedure: All notice requirements-and-public hearing netice requirements shall
satisfy State law and City ordinances. Fhe-public- Notices shall contain ample
information to allow the general public to determine what action is being proposed, a
short description of the proposal, the time, date and location of the public meeting or
hearing, the type of input being requested by the City, and where additional
information, if any, may be obtained. Applications-areand-shall-be noticed inthe
The City shall comply with the Notice requirements contained in Utah Code § 10-9a-

201 et seg. Utah State code generally identifies two classes of notice as follows:

A. Class A Notice as identified in Utah Code § 63G-30-102(1) (as amended

requires the following:

1. Posting on the Utah Public Notice Website;

2. Posting on the City of Bluffdale’s Official Website;

3. Posting at City Hall (2222 West 14400 South);

4. Posting on or adjacent to the subject public street or easement if
applicable (e.g. Vacation of a Public Street or Easement)

B. Class B Notice as identified in Utah Code § 63G-30-102(1) (as amended)

1. Allitems required in subsection A above;

2. Mailing to Affected Entities as required;

3. Geographical Mailing as required (see specific Land Use Decision
below)

C. Inthe event of a disagreement between the Bluffdale City Code and the
Utah State Code, the requirements of the State Code shall prevail.

2. Applications shall be noticed in the following manner:

Land Use Decision} Time Notice Type

A.Pursuantto Utah Code | (1) see Land Use Application; AND

Any Application ,

a § 10-9a-537(3), the City
(except building may not approve an (2) As required by Utah Code § 10-
permit) within application until after 9a-537(3), written notice shall be
5,000feetofthe provided to UDVMA. The notice shall

notice has been provided

boundary of Camp

to the Utah Division of

be on a form provided by the

Williams

Veterans and Military
Affairs (UDVMA). After
written notice, the UDVMA
shall have 90 days to
provide a written
response to the City.

UDVMAandwillincludeinformation
about the project proposal,
specifically if the land use intensity
and/or density are proposed to be

increased.

Land Use A. Pursuant to Utah Code § | (1) As requiréd by Utah Code § 10-
Application 10-9a-206, the City shall 9a-206, electronic written notice
impacting a High | provide an electronic shall be provided to the designated
Priority notice of the application to | Utah Department of
Transportation the Utah Department of Transportation representative.
Corridor Transportation in a timely
manner upon receiving the
application.
(4) Notice-of the-d ; j
\ fthefi blicheari
anymedification efallorany
portion ef a-GerneralPlan-and
ico ofeach-publi :
the-cubject. oi
(2) Notice-of blic hear
A. Upon inception of the be publishedin a newspaper of Lcirculatien inthe area:and
initial process to generally fi nee
Preparation, plan or the process for ite: mai b aff
. any General Plan . .
adoption or entity and pestedin-atleast-3-
amendments ofthe amendment publiciocations-withinthe
General Plan or B. 10calendardaysprior | Municipatity;orenthe
General PlanMap _|to first publichearing Municipalitys-officialwebsite-

C. 24-hour notice ofeach
public meeting

(1) Class B Notice; AND

(2) In the case of an amendment to

the General Plan map, notice
mailed to all record owners of
property within 1,000 feet of the
parcel(s) or property(ies) being

considered for amendment; AND

(3) Notice of Intent sent to State and

regional entities as noticed in Utah
Code § 10-9a-203(1), as amended.

Adoption or
amendments ofthe
land use
ordinances or
Zoning Map
(rezone)

A. 10 calendar days prior
to first publichearing

B. Additional notice

C. Public meeting

(1) Class B Notice, AND

(2) In the case of an amendment to
the Zoning Map, notice mailed to all
record owner(s) of property within.
1,000 feet of the parcel(s) or
property(ies) being considered for

amendment.

Annexation policy
plan

A. 14 calendar days prior
to first publicmeeting

B. 14 calendar days prior
to first publichearing

C. Within 30 calendar days
after adopting plan

(1) Class B Notice; AND

(2) Notice mailed to all record
owner(s) of property within the

proposed annexation area; AND

(3) Any additional notice required
by Utah Code Part 10-2-4, as

amended.

Appeal of a permit
decision

Notify the applicant of the date,
time, and place of each public
hearing and public meeting to
consider the application; provide to
each applicant a copy of each staff
report regarding the applicant or
the pending application at least 3
business calendar days before the
public hearing or public meeting;

and notify the applicant of any final
action on a pending application

Amendment to .
. 30 calendar day notice
public . | .
i prior to implementing an | njsitednetice andan-eppertunityte
improvement
; amendment to adopted | commentteanyone-whe-has
standard in specifications for publi
ecificatio ie in sasriti
subdivision or sp “ ae s requested the-noticeinwriting-
improvements that apply
development ij
; P to subdivision or Class A Notice
requirement
. development
ordinance
Conditionaluse Seetand Use Application City will maileut notice to-adjacent
permit Additional Notice: andnearby property owners within
4,000-feet.

Conditional use
permit

See Land Use Application

Development
Agreement

10 calendar days before
meeting or hearing and
final action on
agreement, unless

excepted by Utah Code §
10-9a-532.

1) Class B Notice, and

2) Inthe case of Agreement
provisions differing from
current City Code, notice shall
also be provided in accordance

with Adoption or Amendments
of Land Use Ordinances.

(2) Notify the applicant of the
date, time, and place of each
public hearing and public

meeting (if applicable); AND-

andapplication;
(2) pProvide to each applicant a
3 calendar days before copy of each staff report or
Land use meeting or hearing and documentation regarding
application final action on the applicant or the pending
application application at least 3

business calendar days
before the public hearing or
public meeting, ANDand

(3) ANotify them of any final
action on a pending
application.

Nonconforming

uses/non- oo
. See Land Use Application
complying
structures
#- See Land Use Application
Preliminary
subdivision plat
approval
Subdivisi \ Cartified ; Hettert '
Jmentwithia | af lcationisfiled | days-aft . ke-finalacti
100-feet-ofa-canat eniter:
10 calendar days before
Road or Other

Public Right of Way’
Dedication Plan

meeting or hearing and

final action on proposed
dedication

Class A Notice

Vacating or
amending a
subdivision plat

10 calendar days prior to
public meeting. If public
hearing is required due to
exceptions, then 10
calendar day notice is
required.

Notice mailed to each affected
entity that provides a service on a
portion of the plat being vacated or
amended pursuant to Utah Code §
10-9a-608.

Vacating some or
all of a public
street, right-of-way
or easement

10 calendar days prior to
public hearing

(1) Class A Notice; AND
(2) Notice mailed to the record
owner of each parcel that is

accessed by the public
easement; mailed to each
affected entity: posted on or

nearthestreet, right-of-way,
or easement in a manner

thatis calculated to alert the

public; and published in a

newspaper of general
circulation in the

municipality in which the
land subject to the petition
is located and published on
the Utah public notice
website pursuant to Utah
Code §10-9a-208.

See Land Use Application
Variances

3. Costs: Any costs associated with the provisions of the notice requirements herein shall
be the responsibility of the proponent of the action. If notice given under authority of
this section is not challenged as provided by State law within thirty (30) calendar days
from the date of the meeting for which notice was given, the notice is considered
adequate and proper.

4. Applicant Notice; Waiver Of Requirements: For each land use application, the City
shall:
. Notify the applicant of the date, time, and place of each public hearing and
public meeting to consider the application;

. Provide to each applicant a copy of each staff report regarding the applicant or
the pending application at least three (3) business eatendar days before the
public hearing or public meeting; and

. Notify the applicant of any final action on a pending application.

. As provided in Utah Code § 10-9a-202(2) regarding a “Land use application,” if

the City fails to comply with Utah Code § 10-9a-202(1)(a) or Utah Code § 10-9a-

202(1)(b), an applicant may waive the failure verbally or in writing before or at

the meeting, so that the application may stay on the public hearing or public
meeting agenda and be considered as if the requirements had been met. ##a-

f)
BLUFFDALE

2222 West 14400 South « Bluffdale, Utah 84065 * (801) 254-2200
Community Dev nt Department
Planning

ivision

STAFF REPORT
August 16, 2024

To: Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Caitlyn Tubbs, Planning Manager

Re: State Code Ordinance Updates: Noticing Requirements

Application No.: 2024-29

Applicant: City of Bluffdale

Request: Consider proposed amendments to Section 11.30.060 of Bluffdale’s City
Code to incorporate changes made by the Utah State Legislature related to
noticing requirements.

SUMMARY

During the 2023 Legislative Session, the Utah State Legislature passed Senate Bill 43 with the intent
of streamlining the system for providing public notices. This legislation created two classes of
notices: Class A and Class B.

During the 2024 Legislative Session, the Legislature passed House Bill 256 which requires
municipalities and counties to provide a notice to military installations for new land use permits
within 5,000 of a boundary with military land. Staff has proposed the attached amendments to
Section 11.30.060 of Bluffdale’s City Code to incorporate the changes made by the State.

ANALYSIS

Land development entitlements in the State of Utah are divided into two categories: Legislative and
Administrative. Some examples of Legislative and Administrative items are included in the table
below:

Legislative Administrative
Zone Map Amendments Site Plan Reviews
General Plan Map Amendments | Subdivision Plats
Ordinance Amendments Conditional Use Permits

Application 2024-29 - State Code Ordinance Updates: Noticing Requirements
August 21, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting
Pagel
The City has broad discretion when it comes to the consideration of Legislative items since these
items are centered around the creation of policy. Administrative items, however, are tied to
standards that have already been adopted. If the proposal meets the standards, an administrative
application must be approved.

Public notice and input are important to the public process, and both Bluffdale City and the State of
Utah have enacted minimum requirements to provide public notice of pending applications. Over
the past few years, Bluffdale has updated its noticing requirements to comply with legislation and
adjust the noticing provisions to match the legislative/administrative categorization of each type of
application. Routine administrative applications that meet all standards proceed through a more
streamlined process. Bluffdale even exceeds the State’s requirements by mailing out notices to
property owners within 1,000 feet of certain land use applications; these applications are typically
legislative and public input is highly encouraged.

Section 11.30.060 of Bluffdale’s City Code currently shows a table depicting the noticing
requirements for each specific application. The proposed ordinance amendment would modify this
table to include labels for “Class A” and “Class B” notices and list where each type is required.

Class A notices include all of the following:
- Posting on the Utah Public Notice website;
- Posting on the City of Bluffdale’s official website;
- Posting at City Hall; and
- Posting on or adjacent to the public street/easement (if applicable; e.g. Vacation of a Public
Street or Right of Way)

Class B notices require:
- Mailing to Affected Entities;
- Mailing to a specified geographical area; and
-  Allitems required for a Class A notice

Staff has also proposed the following modifications:

- Remove newspaper notice requirement; a newspaper notice is no longer required by State
Law for land use applications.

- Classified conditional use permits as administrative land use applications, removing the
mail-out notice requirement.

- Include additional notices provided to State and regional entities when preparing and/or
amending a General Plan.

- Revise Annexation notice provisions to include a “Class B” notice and to refer noticing
procedures directly to Utah Statute governing annexations.

Application 2024-29 - State Code Ordinance Updates: Noticing Requirements
August 21, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting
Page 2
Staff also proposes modifications to
include a new requirement to provide
notice for all properties within 5,000 feet
of military installations. HB 256 was
passed in the 2024 Legislative Session
and requires all municipalities and
counties to provide a notice of land use
applications within 5,000 feet of a
military installation to the Utah Division
of Veterans and Military Affairs. Upon
sending this notice, the UDVMA will have
up to ninety (90) days to provide a
written determination of the proposal’s
compatibility with the military’s
mission(s). During this 90-day period,
the Land Use Authority cannot take final
action on the application until the
UDVMA’s input has been received.

NOTICE AND PUBLIC INPUT:

A notice of this public hearing was
provided as follows:
- Published on the Utah Public
Notice Website on August 6, 2024
- Published in the Salt Lake
Tribune on August 11, 2024
- Posted on the City’s website and
at City Hall on August 6, 2024

Figure 1; Shaded area depicting properties within 5,000 feet of Camp Williams

The City did not receive any public input regarding this item before publishing this report.

MODEL MOTIONS:

Model for Positive Recommendation - “I move to forward a positive recommendation of Ordinance
2024-18 to the City Council.”

Motion for Negative Recommendation- “| move to forward a negative recommendation of
Ordinance 2024-18 to the City Council pursuant to the following findings: (list findings for negative
recommendation).”

Motion to Continue the Item to a Date Certain/Uncertain - “I move to continue the item to a date
certain/uncertain and direct Staff to provide additional information regarding the following:
1. List any additional information, analysis, or findings the Planning Commission wishes

Application 2024-29 - State Code Ordinance Updates: Noticing Requirements
August 21, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting
Page 3
Staff to provide in advance of the date certain/uncertain...
EXHIBITS

A: Draft Text Amendment Redlines

Application 2024-29 - State Code Ordinance Updates: Noticing Requirements
August 21, 2024 Planning Commission Meeting
Page 4
