                                   ORDINANCE NO.2024-14


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING
BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TITLE 1 TO ESTABLISH AN ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
PROGRAM      AND    ENACTING      TITLE    15   REGARDING      THE    ADMINISTRATIVE          CODE
ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM


WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10~9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the "City") authority to enact
ordinances that the Bluffdale City Council (the "City Council") considers necessary or
appropriate for the health,safety, and welfare of the City; and

WHEREAS,the City has enacted Title 1 of the Bluffdale City Code; and

WHEREAS,the City Council finds an administrative code enforcement program for the City
will further the health,safety, and welfare of the City; and

WHEREAS,the City Council finds it is in the best interests of the City and its residents to
amend Title 1 to establish an administrative code enforcement program; and

WHEREAS,the City Council finds it is in the best interests of the City and its residents to enact
and adopt Title 15 to specify details related to the administrative code enforcement program.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH:


SECTION 1. Enactment. As shown in Exhibit A hereto, incorporated herein by this reference.
Title 1 of the Bluffdale City Code is hereby amended and Title 15 of the Bluffdale City Code is
hereby enacted and adopted.

SECTION 2. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances, resolutions, policies, or
zoning maps of the City of Bluffdale heretofore adopted are inconsistent herewith they are
hereby amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be amended to comply
with the provisions hereof, they are hereby repealed.

SECTION 3. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid or
unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be severable.

SECTION 4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,ON THIS
   DAY OF   M/Je-       20      BY THE FOLLOWING VOTE:
                                          YES / NO        ABSTAIN   ABSENT
                 Councilmember Aston
                 Councilmember Austin
                 Councilmember Crockett
                 Councilmember Lord
                 Councilmember Wilding



Mayor:                                    Attest:

         e (j. Ha I                                 City Recorder




                                               CORPORATE
Exhibit A
                                           TITLE 1
              ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM ESTABLISHED


CHAPTER 1
1.150.010: ESTABLISHMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM
1.150.020: ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE


1.150.010: ESTABLISHMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM


There is hereby established in Bluffdaie City an Administrative Code Enforcement Program
("ACE Program" or"ACE Court"). The procedures to be followed in the administration of this
program found in Title 15 of the City Code.The ACE Program may be used by the City for the
administrative enforcement of City Code violations in accordance with the procedures
outlined in Title 15.


1.150.020: ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE


   A. An Administrative Law Judge("ALJ")shall preside over hearings and proceedings for
      the ACE Program in the City. The City Manager shall appoint the ALJ and shall
      determine, if any,the salary, compensation,and benefits of the ALJ.
   B. The ALJ position may be a merit,volunteer,or contract position and is subject to all
       personnel rules.
    C. The ALJ may not be disciplined for any decision made while conducting a hearing, as
       long as the decision is lawful and made in accordance with City ordinances. City policy
       and procedure,and policies and ordinances pertaining to the ACE Program.
    D. The ALJ shall be trained and knowledgeable in the City Code,due process, rules of
       evidence,civil procedure,administrative law and procedure, nuisance law,and zoning
       law.
    E. The ALJ position is not a supervisory position. The ALJ is supervised by the City
       Manager or designee.
                                       TITLE 15
                     ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROGRAM


CHAPTERS
15.10: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
15.20: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
15.30: ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES
15.40: RECOVERY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES AND COSTS


                                     CHAPTER 1
                     15.10: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS


15.10.010: GENERAL
      15.10.010.010: SHORT TITLE
      15.10.010.020: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE
      15.10.010.030: SCOPE
      15.10.010.040: EXISTING LAW CONTINUED
      15.10.010.050: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT
      15.10.010.060: EFFECT OF HEADINGS
      15.10.010.070: VALIDITY OF TITLE- SEVERABILITY
      15.10.010.080: NO MANDATORY DUTY-CIVIL LIABILITY
      15.10.010.090: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPREATION OF ORDINANCES
      15.10.010.100: DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY
       15.10.010.110: ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING,AIDING,AND ABETTING
15.10.020: SERVICE REQUIREMENTS
      15.10.020.010: SERVICE OF PROCESS
      15.10.020.020: CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS
15.10.030: GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES
      15.10.030.010: GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY
      15.10.030.020: ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES
      15.10.030.030: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT
      15.10.030.040: POWER TO ISSUE NOTICES AND CITATIONS
      15.10.030.050: FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED
      15.10.030.060: FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA


                                     CHAPTER2
             15.20: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES


15.20.010: GENERAL
      15.20.010.010: AUTHORITY
      15.20.010.020: NOTICE OF VIOLATION; ABATEMENT PROCEDURES
      15.20.010.030: FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO COMPLIANCE
      15.20.010.040: INSPECTIONS
      15.20.010.050: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT
      15.20.010.060: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS


15.20.020: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROCEDURES
      15.20.020.010: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE
      15.20.020.020: AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF HEARINGS
      15.20.020.030: REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
      15.20.020.040: DEFAULT HEARINGS AND ORDERS
      15.20.020.050: NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
      15.20.020.060: DISQUALIFICATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
      15.20.020.070: POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE
      15.20.020.080: PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
      15.20.020.090: FAULURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
      15.20.020.100: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER
      15.20.020.110: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER
15.20.030: ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS
      15.20.030.010: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING DECISION


                                     CHAPTERS
                   15.30: ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES


15.30.010: RECORDATION OF NOTICES OF VIOLATION
      15.30.010.010: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE
      15.30.010.020: AUTHORITY
      15.30.010.030: PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION
      15.30.010.040: SERVICE OF NOTICE OF RECORDATION
      15.30.010.050: FAILURE TO REQUEST HEARING
      15.30.010.060: NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE-PROCEDURES
      15.30.010.070: WITHOLDING ISSUANCE OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS AND LICENSES
      15.30.010.080: CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION
15.30.020: ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES
      15.30.020.010: MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES
      15.30.020.020: FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES
15.30.030: COSTS
      15.30.030.010: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE
      15.30.030.020: AUTHORITY
      15.30.030.030: NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT OF REINSPECTION FEES
      15.30.030.040: FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS
15.30.040: ADMINISTRATIVE FEES
      15.30.040.010: ADMINISTRATIVE FEES
15.30.050: INJUNCTIONS
     15.30.050.010: CIVIL VIOLATIONS-INJUNCTIONS
15.30.060: PERFORMANCE BOND
     15.30.060.010: PERFORMANCE BONDS
                                   CHAPTER4
          15.40: RECOVERY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES AND COSTS


15.40.010: CODE ENFORCEMENTTAX LIENS
      15.40.010.010: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE
      15.40.010.020: PROCEDURE FOR TAX LIENS WITHOUT A JUDGMENT
      15.40.010.030: PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITH A JUDGMENT
      15.40.010.040: CANCELLATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENTTAX LIEN
15.40.020: WRIT OF EXECUTION
      15.40.020.010: RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF EXECUTION OR OTHER MENAS
15.40.030: WRIT OF GARNISHMENT
      15.40.030.010: RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF GARNISHMENT OR OTHER MEANS
15.40.040: ALLOCATION OF FUNDS COLLECTED UNDER ADMINISTRATIVE CODE
ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROGRAM
      15.40.040.010: ALLOCATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND FUNDS COLLECTED
                                           CHAPTER 1
                       15.10: GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS


15.10.010: SECTION ONE: GENERAL


15.10.010.010:SHORT TITLE


This title shall be known as the "Administrative Code Enforcement Hearing Program"(the
"ACE Program"). This title shall also be known as Title 15, of the Bluffdale City Code. It may
be cited and pleaded under either designation.

15.10.010.020: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE


The City Council of the City of Bluffdale finds that the enforcement of the Bluffdale Municipal
Code and applicable state codes throughout the city is an important public service. Code
enforcement is vital to the protection of the public's health,safety,and quality of life. The City
Council finds that a comprehensive code enforcement system that uses a combination of
judicial and administrative remedies is critical to gain compliance with the City's duly
enacted regulations. Failure to comply with an administrative code enforcement action may
require the City Attorney to file a judicial action to achieve compliance.

15.10.010.030: SCOPE


The provisions of this Title may be applied to all violations of the City Code. It has been
designed as an additional remedy for the City to use in achieving compliance with its
ordinances.


15.10.010.040: EXISTING LAW CONTINUED


The provisions of this Title do not invalidate any other title or ordinance but shall be read in
conjunction with those titles and ordinances as an additional remedy available for
enforcement of those ordinances.


15.10.010.050: CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT


The City has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal case for the violation
of any of its ordinances. The City may choose to file both,or one or the other. The enactment
of this administrative remedy shall in no way interfere with the City's right to prosecute City
ordinance violations as criminal offenses. The City may use any of the remedies available
under the law in both civil and criminal prosecution. If the City chooses to file both civil and
criminal charges for the same day of violation, no civil penalties may be assessed, but all
other remedies are available.
15.10.010.060: EFFECT OF HEADINGS


Title, chapter,section and subsection headings contained herein shall not be deemed to
govern, limit, modify,or in any manner affect the scope, meaning,or intent of the provisions
of any title, chapter, part, or section hereof.

15.10.010.070: VALIDITY OF TITLE-SEVERABILITY


If any section,subsection,sentence,clause, phrase, portion, or provision of this Title is for
any reason held to be invalid or unconstitutional by the decision of any court of competent
jurisdiction,such decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this Title.
The City Council ofthis City hereby declares that it would have adopted this Title and each
section,subsection,sentence, clause, phrase, portion, or provision thereof, irrespective ofthe
fact that any one or more sections,subsections,clauses, phrases, portions, or provisions be
declared invalid or unconstitutional. This Section shall apply to all amendments heretofore or
hereafter made to this Title.


15.10.010.080: NO MANDATORY DUTY - CIVIL LIABILITY


It is the intent of the City Council that in establishing performance standards or establishing
an obligation to act by a City officer or employee,these standards shall not be construed as
creating a mandatory duty if the officer or employee fails to perform his or her directed duty
or duties.


15.10.010.090: GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF ORDINANCES


A. For purposes of this Title:
       1. Any gender includes the other gender.
       2."Shall" is mandatory;"may" is permissive.
       3. The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.
       4. Words used in the present tense include the past and future tense,and vice versa.
       5. Words and phrases used in this Title and not specifically defined shall be construed
       according to the context and approved usage ofthe language.

15.10.010.100: DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY


The following words and phrases, whenever used in this Title,shall be constructed as defined
in this section, unless a different meaning is specifically defined elsewhere in this Title and
specifically stated to apply:
"Abatement" means any action the City may take on public or private property and any
adjacent property as may be necessary to remove or alleviate a violation, including, but not
limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding, and securing or replacement of property.

"Administrative Code Enforcement Order" means an order issued by the Administrative Law
Judge.The order may include an order to abate the violation, pay civil penalties and
administrative costs, or take any other action as authorized or required by this Title and
applicable state codes.

"Administrative Law Judge" means the professionally trained individual retained by contract
to fulfill the responsibilities set forth in this title.

"Animal Control Director" means the official designated by the City to manage animal control
related issues.


"City" means the area within the territorial city limits of the City of Bluffdale, and such
territory outside of this City over which the City hasjurisdiction or control by virtue of any
constitutional or incorporation provisions or any law.

"City Council" means the City Council of the City of Bluffdale.

"City Engineer" means the head ofthe City Department of Engineering.

"Code Enforcement Lien" means a lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties,
administrative fees, and costs.

"Code Enforcement Performance Bond" means a bond posted by a Responsible Person to
ensure compliance with the City Code,applicable state titles, a judicial action,or an
Administrative Code Enforcement Order.


"Department head" means the employee or appointed official supervising the Community
and Economic Development Department, Engineering Department,Public Works
Department, Fire Department,contracted Police Department,or other City department.

"Enforcement Official" means any Department Head or person authorized or designated to
enforce violations of the City Code or applicable state codes by a Department Head.

"Financial Institution" means any person that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of trust on
a property.

"Good Cause" means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice; unavailability due to
unavoidable, unpreventable,or extenuating emergency or circumstance; if a required act
causes an imminent and irreparable injury; and acts of nature adverse to performing required
acts.


"Imminent Life-Safety Hazard" means any condition that creates a present, extreme,and
immediate danger to life, property, health, or public safety.

"Legal Interest" means any interest that is represented by a document,such as a deed of
trust, quitclaim deed, mortgage,judgment lien,tax or assessment lien, mechanic's lien, or
other similar instrument that is recorded with the County Recorder.

"Notice of Compliance" means a document issued by the City, representing that a property
complies with the requirements outlined in the Notice of Violation.

"Notice of Satisfaction" means a document or form approved by the Administrative Law
Judge or his or her designee, which indicates that all outstanding civil penalties and costs
have been either paid in full, or that the City has negotiated an agreed amount,or that a
subsequent administrative orjudicial decision has resolved the outstanding debt. In addition
to the satisfaction of the financial debt,the property must also be in compliance with the
requirements outlined in the Notice of Violation.

"Notice of Emergency Abatement" means a written notice that informs a Responsible Person
of emergency abatement actions taken by the City,the costs of those actions, and orders
paymentfor those costs.

"Notice of Itemized Bill for Costs" means a written notice that informs a Responsible Person
of code violations, actions taken by the City to obtain compliance,itemizes the City's costs
and orders payment of those costs.

"Notice of Violation" means a written notice prepared by an enforcement official that informs
a Responsible Person of a code violation or violations and orders them to take certain steps
to correct the violation or violations.


"Oath" includes affirmations and oaths.


"Person" means any natural person,firm,joint venture,joint stock company, partnership,
association, club,company,corporation, business trust, organization,or the manager,lessee,
agent,sergeant, officer, or employee of any of them,or any other entity that is recognized by
law as the subject of rights or duties.

"Property Owner" means the record owner of real property based on the county assessor's
records.
"Public Nuisance" means any condition caused, maintained,or permitted to exist that
constitutes a threat to the public's health,safety, and welfare, or that significantly obstructs,
injures, or interferes with the reasonable or free use of property in a neighborhood or
community or by any considerable number of persons. A public nuisance also has the same
meaning as set forth in the Utah Code and Bluffdale City Code.

"Responsible Person" means a person who is responsible for causing or maintaining a
violation of the City Code or applicable state codes,including but not limited to the property
owner,tenant, person with a legal interest in the real property,and or person in possession of
the real property,and shall be liable for any violation maintained on the property. In all cases,
the property owner shall be considered a Responsible Person. Responsible Person includes a
business entity.

"Vehicle" means a device in,on,or by which a person or property is or may be transported or
drawn on any public roadway.

"Written" includes handwritten,typewritten, photocopied,computer printed,sent by
facsimile, emailed,texted,or sent in another electronic or digital format.

15.10.010.110: ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING,AIDING,AND ABETTING

Whenever any act or omission is made unlawful in this Title, it shall include causing,
permitting, aiding, or abetting such act or omission.

15.10.020:SECTION TWO:SERVICE REQUIREMENTS

15.10.020.010: SERVICE OF PROCESS


A.     Whenever service is required to be given under this Title for enforcement purposes,
the document shall be served by any of the following methods, unless different provisions are
otherwise specifically stated to apply:
       1.      Personal service pursuant to Utah Rules of Civil Procedure Rule 4(d)(1) or rule
       4(d)(5), except that if the person refuses to accept the document(s),service is
      sufficient if the person serving them states the name of the process and offers to
       deliver them;
       2.     Regular mail, postage prepaid,to the last known address of the owner(s)or
       other Responsible Person(s);
       3.     Posting the notice conspicuously on or in front of the property. If not inhabited,
       the notice must also be mailed as in (1) above. The form ofthe posted notice shall be
       approved by the department head or his or her designee;
       4.       By delivering a copy of document(s)to the individual personally. If the person
        refuses to accept the document,service is sufficient if the person serving them states
       the name of the process and offers to deliver them;
       5.       Publication in a newspaper of general circulation where the identity or
        whereabouts of the person to be served are unknown and cannot be ascertained
       through reasonable diligence, where service is impracticable under the
        circumstances,or where there exists good cause to believe that the person to be
        served is avoiding service of process; or
       6.       Where the underlying violation involves a vehicle, by affixing ofthe
        document(s)to the vehicle alleged to have been employed in such violation.
B.      Service by regular mail in the manner described above shall be deemed served on the
third day after the date of mailing.
C.      If service complies with the requirements of this Section,it shall be deemed a valid
service even if a party claims not to have received the service and it shall not affect the
validity of any proceedings taken under this Title.
D.      The failure to serve all Responsible Person(s)shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings against any other Responsible Person that was successfully served.

15.10.020.020: CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS


Whenever a document is recorded with the county recorder as authorized or required by this
Title or applicable state codes,recordation shall provide constructive notice of the
information contained in the recorded documents.


15.10.030:SECTION THREE,GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES

15.10.030.010: GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY


Whenever the department head or enforcement official finds that a violation of the City Code
or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, an administrative enforcement
procedure may be used as outlined in this Title. The department administrator or any
enforcement official has the authority and power necessary to gain compliance with the
provisions of the City Code and applicable state codes. These powers include the power to
issue Notices of Violation or Citations,inspect public and private property, abate nuisances
and violations on public and private property, and use whatever judicial and administrative
remedies are available under the City Code or applicable state codes.

15.10.030.020: ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES


The Administrative Law Judge is authorized to develop policies and procedures,consistent
with this title, relating to the hearing procedures,scope of hearings, and subpoena powers.
The City Council may determine other matters relating to the ACE Program.^ However,any
such policies and procedures shall not be inconsistent with this ordinance or state or federal
law.


15.10.030.030: AUTHORITY TO INSPECT


Subject to state and federal law,the department head or any enforcement official is
authorized to enter upon any property or premises to ascertain whether the provisions of the
City Code or applicable state codes are being obeyed and to make any examinations and
surveys as may be necessary in the performance of the enforcement duties. This may include
the taking of photographs,samples,or other physical evidence. All inspections, entries,
examinations, and surveys shall be done in a reasonable manner based upon cause. If the
Responsible Person refuses to allow the enforcement official to enter the property,the
enforcement official shall obtain a search warrant.


15.10.030.040: POWER TO ISSUE NOTICES AND CITATIONS


Subject to other applicable law,each enforcement official is authorized to issue a Notice of
Violation or citation whenever there is reasonable cause to believe that the person has
committed a violation of the City Code or City ordinances.

15.10.030.050: FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED


It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully make a false statement or refuse to give one's
name or address with intent to deceive or interfere with an enforcement official when in the
performance of the enforcement official's duties under the provisions of this Title. A violation
of this Section shall be a class B misdemeanor.


15.10.030.060: FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA


It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an
administrative enforcement hearing. A violation of this Section shall be a class B
misdemeanor.


15.10.030.070: RECORDS RETENTION


The City shall keep all records it creates or receives regarding proceedings under this Title
consistent with the City's records retention policy applicable to City records in general.
                                         CHAPTER!
               15.20: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES


15.20.010:SECTION ONE: GENERAL


15.20.010.010: AUTHORITY


Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted to exist in violation of any provisions of the
City Code or applicable state codes that constitutes a violation may be abated by the City
pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Part. Every violation of any provision of the City
Code, is a separate and distinct offense. Each day's continuance of the violation is a separate
and distinct offense.


15.20.010.020: NOTICE OF VIOLATION;ABATEMENT PROCEDURES

A.     Whenever a department head or enforcement official determines that a violation ofthe
City Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist,the department head or
enforcement official may choose to proceed under the Notice of Violation and administrative
abatement procedures. If this procedure is used, a Notice of Violation shall be issued to a
Responsible Person. The Notice of Violation shall include the following information:
           1. Name of property owner;
          2. Street address of violation;
          3. Date violation observed;
          4. All code sections violated and description of condition of the property that
             violates the applicable codes;
          5. A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently
             correct outstanding violations, which may include corrections, repairs,
             demolition, removal,or other appropriate action;
          6. A specific date by which the violations listed in the Notice of Violation must be
             corrected, which date shall be not less than (7) days from the date of service;
          7. The amount of the civil penalty for each violation, and a statement that civil
             penalties will begin to accrue daily upon expiration of the date to correct
             violations until the property is brought into compliance, up to the maximum
             allowed by state law;
          8. An explanation that only one Notice of Violation is required for any twelve
             month period beginning with the initial Notice of Violation, and that civil
             penalties begin immediately upon any subsequent violations of the notice. The
             Responsible Person may request a hearing on the renewed violations by
             following the same procedure as provided for in the original notice;
          9. An explanation of the consequences should the Responsible Person fail to
             comply with the terms and deadlines as prescribed in the Notice of Violation,
             which may include, but is not limited to, criminal prosecution; civil penalties;
              revocation of permits; recordation of the Notice of Violation; withholding of
             future municipal permits;abatement ofthe violation; costs; administrative fees;
              and any other legal remedies; and,
          10. Procedures to request a hearing as provided in Section 15.20.020.030, and
              consequences for failure to request a hearing.
B.     The Notice of Violation shall be served by one of the methods of service listed in
Section 15.10.020.010.
C.      More than one Notice of Violation may be issued against the same Responsible
Person, if it encompasses different dates,or different violations.
D.      Failure to include all items listed in subsection A herein shall not affect the validity of
the Notice of Violation. Any defect in the notice may be amended fifteen (15)calendar days
prior to any administrative hearing.

15.20.010.030: FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO COMPLIANCE


       A. If a Responsible Person fails to bring a violation into compliance the date specified
           by the enforcement official on the Notice of Violation, civil penalties shall be owed
           to the City per violation per day, and every subsequent day of violation, according
           to the city consolidated fee schedule, up to maximum amounts allowed by state
           law, pursuant to Section 15.20.010.020(A)(7).
        B. Payment of any civil penalty shall not excuse a failure to correct a violation or any
           recurrence ofthe violation, nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the City as
           necessary.
       C. Failure to comply with a Notice of Violation is a class B misdemeanor.

15.20.010.040: INSPECTIONS


It shall be the duty of the Responsible Person served with a Notice of Violation to request an
inspection by the department head or an enforcement official when his or her property has
been brought into compliance. It is prima facie evidence that the violation remains on the
property if no inspection is requested. Civil penalties accumulate daily until the property has
been inspected and a notice of compliance is issued. Reinspection fees shall be assessed if
more than one inspection is necessary.

15.20.010.050: EMERGENCY ABATEMENT


     A. Whenever the department head or any enforcement official determines that an
     Imminent Life-Safety Hazard exists or any safety hazard that exists in accordance with the
     uniform code forthe abatement of dangerous buildings,1979 edition,as may be amended
     from time to time, printed as a code in book form by the International Conference of
     Building Officials,three (3)copies of which have been filed for use and examination by the
     public in the office ofthe City Recorder,is hereby approved and adopted as the abatement
     of dangerous buildings code, the International Fire Code, floodplain-related federal
   regulations and laws, and/or the Utah Health Code that requires immediate correction or
   elimination, the department head or any enforcement official may exercise any or all of
   the following powers without prior notice to the Responsible Person:
          1. Order the immediate vacation of any tenants and prohibit occupancy until all
              repairs and any other necessary remedial actions are completed;
          2. Post the premises as unsafe,substandard, or dangerous;
          3. Board,fence, or secure the building or site;
          4. Raze and grade that portion of the building or site to prevent further collapse,
              and remove any hazard to the general public;
          5. Make any minimal emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any Imminent
              Life Safety Hazard; or
          6. Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the Imminent Life-Safety
              Hazard,including demolition.
   B. An enforcement officer may, based on probable cause, enter or otherwise gain
   necessary access to property without a search warrant or court order to accomplish the
   above-listed acts to abate the Imminent Life-Safety Hazard.
   C. The Responsible Person shall be liable for all costs associated with the abatement of
   the Imminent Life-Safety Hazard. Those costs shall be itemized and provided to the
   Responsible Person in the form of a Notice of Emergency Abatement. Costs may be
   recovered pursuant to this Title.
         1. The Notice of Emergency Abatement shall describe the name of the property
             owner,the address ofthe property,the date the hazard existed,a description of
             the hazard and any applicable code citations,the date(s) on which the City took
             abatement action, a statement explaining the work done to abate the hazard,
             the itemized cost of such work, and the procedures to request a hearing as
             provided in Section 15.20.020.030, and consequences for failure to request a
             hearing.
         2. The Notice of Emergency Abatement shall be served by one of the methods of
              service listed in Section 15.10.020.010 of this Title.
    D. The department head or designated enforcement official shall pursue only the
    minimum level of correction or abatement necessary to eliminate the immediacy of a
    hazard.
   E. Within ten (10) days of completion of an abatement of an Imminent Life Safety Hazard,
   the City shall serve the Responsible person with a Notice of Emergency Abatement.
   F. The department head or enforcement official may also pursue any other administrative
   or judicial remedy to abate any remaining Violation consistent with this Title.

15.20.010.060: ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS


   A. Any person violating any provision of the City Code or City ordinance may be issued an
      administrative citation by an enforcement official.
   B. A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of the of the citation and shall be payable
      directly to the City Treasurer's office.
   C. The amount of the penalty assessed for an administrative citation shall be found in the
      City's consolidated fee schedule.
   D. The enforcement official shall attempt to obtain the signature of that person on the
      administrative citation. If the Responsible Person refuses or fails to sign the
      administrative citation,the failure or refusal shall not affect the validity of the citation
      and subsequent proceedings. If the Code Enforcement Officer is unable to locate the
      Responsible Person for the violation,then the administrative citation shall be served in
      the manner prescribed in Section 15.10.020.010.
   E. An administrative citation shall include the following:

           1. the date and location of the violations and the approximate time the violations
              were observed;
           2. the Code sections violated and the subject matter of those sections;
           3. the amount of the penalty imposed for the violations;
           4. an explanation as to how the penalty shall be paid,the time period by which the
              penalty shall be paid,and the consequences offailure to pay the penalty;
           5. notice ofthe right and the procedures to request a hearing;
           6. the signature of the enforcement official and the signature of the Responsible
              Person, if he or she can be located, as outlined in this Title; and
           7. any other information deemed helpful or necessary by the enforcement official.

   F. Payment of the penalty assessed in a citation shall not excuse failure to correct the
      violation, nor shall it bar further enforcement action by the City if the violation is not
       corrected.
   G. Non-payment of the penalty assessed in a citation by the time period specified in the
      notice may result in additional notices, a small claims court action, referral of the
      matter to a collection agency, or any other remedy in law or equity. The City has the
      authority to collect costs associated with such actions, including administrative fees
      and service costs. Interest on unpaid citations may be assessed at a rate of up to 20
       percent per year.

15.20.020 SECTION 2: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROCEDURES


15.20.020.010: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE


The City Council finds that there is a need to establish uniform procedures for administrative
code enforcement hearings. It is the purpose and intent of the City Council to afford due
process of law to any person who is directly affected by an administrative action. Due process
of law includes notice, an opportunity to participate in the administrative hearing, and an
explanation of the reasons justifying the administrative action. These procedures are also
intended to establish a forum to efficiently,expeditiously,and fairly resolve issues raised in any
administrative code enforcement action.
15.20.020.020: AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF HEARINGS


Enforcement of City Code violations may be conducted through the ACE Program. The
Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures, consistent with this Title, to
regulate the hearing process for any violation of the City Code and applicable state codes that
are handled pursuant to the Notice of Violation and abatement procedures, emergency
abatement procedures,or the administrative citation procedures.

15.20.020.030: REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING

    A. A person served with one ofthe following documents or notices has the right to request
    a hearing to challenge the identified violations if the request is filed within fourteen
    calendar days from the date of service of one of the following notices:
          1. Notice of Violation;
          2. Administrative Citation;
          3. Notice of Itemized Statement for Costs;
          4. Notice of Emergency Abatement
    B. The requestfor hearing shall be made in writingto the Administrative Law Judge or the
    person specified on the Notice of Violation, Citation, Notice of Itemized Statement for
    Costs, or Notice of Emergency Abatement. The request shall contain the case number,the
    address of the violation,the mailing address of the Responsible Person filing the request,
    the residential address of the Responsible Person filing the request, and the signature of
    the Responsible Person filing the request.
    C. The Administrative Law Judge shall schedule a hearing for the next regularly scheduled
    hearing date within sixty (60) calendar days of the written hearing request, and specify a
    date,time,and place for the hearing.
    D. Notice of the hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service set forth in
    Section 15.10.020.010.
    E. Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of the right to a
    hearing and a waiver of the right to challenge the action.
    F. If a Responsible Person fails to request a hearing after being issued a Notice of
    Violation, Administrative Citation, Notice of Itemized Statement for Costs, or Notice of
    Emergency Abatement as provided herein,the corrective action detailed on the Notice of
    Violation. Administrative Citation, Notice of Itemized Statement for Costs, or Notice of
    Emergency Abatement shall be considered the Administrative Enforcement Order
    pursuant to this Title for the default hearing provisions in 15.20.020.040.

15.20.020.040: DEFAULT HEARINGS AND ORDERS
       A. A default hearing may be requested in any case that has outstanding or unpaid civil
          penalties, fines, fees and/or costs due to the City before collection, if a hearing on
          that case has not already been held.
       B. At the default hearing,the Responsible Person shall have the opportunity to
          present relevant evidence to show that good cause exists to waive or reduce the
          fines which have accumulated, postpone an abatement action by the City, or
          excuse the Responsible Person's failure to request a hearing within the period
          specified.
       C. If the Responsible Person falls to establish good cause,the Administrative Law
          Judge shall review the Notice of Violation, Administrative Citation, Notice of
          Itemized Statementfor Costs, or Notice of Emergency Abatement and any other
          evidence presented by the City. If the evidence shows that the violation existed or
          occurred,the Administrative Law Judge shall enter an order consistent with the
          provisions of Section 15.20.020.100. Fines and costs shall accrue until the
          department head provides a notice of compliance detailed In Section
           15.30.010.060.
       D. A case In default shall be considered a judgment on the merits unless otherwise
          specified by the Administrative Law Judge.

15.20.020.050: NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING


       A. Written notice of the day, time, and place of a hearing shall be served to the
          Responsible Person, the enforcement official, and the City Attorney's office by the
          Administrative Law Judge as soon as practicable prior to the date of the hearing,
          but In no event less than seven (7) calendar days before the date ofthe hearing.
       B. The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be In accordance with rules and
          policies promulgated In advance by the Administrative Law Judge, which may
          Include an explanation of the hearing process, the type of evidence that will be
          permitted,the length of the hearing,the Issues to be addressed,and how witnesses
          may be examined.

15.20.020.060: DISQUALIFICATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE

The Administrative Law Judge Is subject to disqualification for bias, prejudice. Interest, or any
other reason for which a judge may be disqualified In a court of law. Rules and procedures for
disqualification and replacement shall be promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

15.20.020.070: POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE


       A. The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to hold hearings, determine If
          violations of city ordinances exist, order compliance with city ordinances, and
          enforce compliance as provided In this Title on any matter subject to the provisions
           of the Title.
       B. The Administrative Law Judge may continue a hearing based on good cause shown
          by a party to the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge must enter on the record
          the good cause on which a continuance Is granted.
     C. The Administrative Law Judge,at the request of any party to the hearing, may sign
        subpoenas for witnesses, documents,and other evidence where the attendance of
        the witness for the admission of evidence is deemed necessary to decide the issues
        atthe hearing.All costs related to the subpoena,including witness and mileage fees,
        shall be borne by the party requesting the subpoena.The Administrative Law Judge
        or the City may develop policies and procedures relating to the issuance of
        subpoenas in administrative code enforcement hearings, including the form of the
        subpoena and related costs.
     D. The Administrative Law Judge has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter
        of an administrative code enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a
        continuance; ordering compliance by issuing an Administrative Code Enforcement
        Order using any remedies available under the law; ensuring compliance of that
        order, which includes the right to authorize the City to enter and abate a violation;
        modifying an Administrative Code Enforcement Order; or, where extraordinary
        circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.
     E. The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to require a Responsible Person to
        post a code enforcement performance bond to ensure compliance with an
        Administrative Code Enforcement Order.


15.20.020.080: PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING


     A. Administrative code enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature.
        Formal rules of evidence and discovery do not apply; however, an informal
        exchange of discovery may be requested from the Administrative Law Judge or
        conducted by stipulation ofthe parties. If the parties cannot reach a stipulation,the
        party seeking discovery shall submit the written discovery requests to the
        Administrative Law Judge with a concise explanation of the reasons why the
        discovery is necessary. The other party may,in that event,submit objections to the
        proposed discovery requests and/or give reasons that the discovery should not be
        approved. The Administrative Law Judge shall then determine whether the
        discovery shall occur. Any discovery request approved under this section must be
        served on the other party in a manner specified in Section 15.10.020.010 no less than
        twenty-eight (28) calendar days before the hearing date. The party receiving the
        discovery request shall have fourteen (14)calendar days to serve their responses in
        a manner specified in Section 15.10.020.010. Failure to request discovery in a timely
        manner shall not be a basis for a continuance. Complainant information is
        protected and shall not be released unless the complainant is a witness at the
        hearing. The procedure and format of the administrative hearing shall follow the
        standard procedures promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge or the City.
     B. The City bears the burden of proof at an administrative code enforcement hearing
        to establish the existence of a violation of the City Code or applicable state codes
        asserted in the Notice of Violation, Administrative Citation, Notice of Itemized
           statementfor Costs,or Notice of Emergency Abatement.The Responsible Person or
           any other party raising an affirmative defense shall bear the burden of proof as to
          that defense.
       C. The standard of proof to be used by the Administrative Law Judge in deciding the
          issues at an administrative hearing is proof by a preponderance of the evidence.
       D. Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present
          evidence in support of his or her case. A written declaration signed under penalty of
          perjury may be accepted in lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony may be given
          by telephone or other electronic means. If a party is not represented and has no
          witnesses,they may testify and present evidence accordingly.
       E. All hearings shall be open to the public. They shall be recorded by audio tape or
          other means. Hearings may be held at the location of the violation if, in the
          determination of the Administrative Law Judge, doing so will help in his
          adjudication of the case.
       F. The Responsible Person has a right to be represented at their expense by an
          attorney. If an attorney will be representing the Responsible Person at the hearing,
          notice ofthe attorney's name,address,and telephone number must be given to the
          City at least one day prior to the hearing, if notice is not given, the hearing may be
          continued at the City's request, and all costs of the continuance assessed to the
           Responsible Person.
       G. No new hearing shall be granted, unless the Administrative Law Judge determines
          that extraordinary circumstances exist which justify a new hearing.

15.20.020.090: FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING


Any party whose property or actions are the subject of any administrative code enforcement
hearing and who fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive the right to a hearing and
shall be responsible for a hearing fee as specified in the City's consolidated fee schedule. Such
waiver shall be entered as a judgment in favor of the City by the Administrative Law Judge,
provided that proper notice of the hearing has been provided,as set forth in this title.

15.20.020.100: ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER


       A. Prior to the issuance of an Administrative Code Enforcement Order by the
          Administrative Law Judge,the parties may enter into a stipulated agreement,which
          must be signed by both parties. This agreement, if approved by the Administrative
          Law Judge,shall be entered by the Administrative Law Judge as the Administrative
          Code Enforcement Order. Entry of this agreement shall constitute a waiver of the
          right to a hearing and the right to appeal.
       B. Once the presentation of evidence and testimony is concluded in the
          administrative code enforcement hearing,the Administrative Law Judge shall issue
          an Administrative Code Enforcement Order that affirms, modifies, or rejects the
         Notice of Violation,Administrative Citation, Notice of Itemized Statementfor Costs,
         or Notice of Emergency Abatement, and the legal and factual basis for his or her
         decision.The Administrative Law Judge may assess an amount of civil penalties and
         costs that are due pursuant to the City's consolidated fee schedule and the
         procedures in this title.
      C. The Administrative Law Judge may order the City to enter the property and abate
         all violations, which may include removing animals kept in violation of the City
         Code. The Administrative Law Judge may order the destruction of a dangerous or
         vicious animal as defined in violation of City Code 05.30.060(B)
      D. The Administrative Law Judge may revoke a kennel permit,an animal license,orthe
         right to possess animals as provided in the City Code.
      E. As part of the Administrative Code Enforcement Order, the Administrative Law
         Judge may condition the total or partial assessment of civil penalties on the
         Responsible Person's ability to complete compliance by specified deadlines.
      F. The Administrative Law Judge may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be
         necessary or as requested by a party to the hearing to ensure compliance with the
         Administrative Code Enforcement Order.
      G. The Administrative Law Judge may order the Responsible Person to post a
         performance bond to ensure compliance with the order.
      H. The Administrative Code Enforcement Order shall become final on the date of the
         signing of the order.
      I. The Administrative Code Enforcement Order shall be served on all parties by any
         one of the methods listed in Section 15.10.020.010 within fourteen (14) calendar
         days of becoming final.

15.20.020.110: FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER


      A. Upon the failure ofthe Responsible Person to comply with the terms and deadlines
         set forth in the Administrative Code Enforcement Order, the City may use all
         appropriate legal means to recover the civil penalties and administrative costs to
         obtain compliance.
      B. After the Administrative Law Judge issues an Administrative Code Enforcement
         Order, the Administrative Law Judge shall monitor the violations and determine
         compliance. If the Administrative Law Judge determines there has been a failure to
         comply with the Administrative Code Enforcement Order, he or she may modify the
         order or issue new orders, including assessing fines and penalties, up to the
         maximum allowed by law,or authorizing the City to abate the violation,as he or she
         determines necessary to achieve compliance.

15.20.030:SECTION 3:ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS


15.20.030.010: APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT HEARING DECISION
A. Any person adversely affected by any decision made in the exercise ofthe provisions
of this Chapter may file a petition for review of the decision or order with the Third
District Court,Salt Lake County, Utah within 30 days after the decision is rendered.
B. No person may challenge in district court an Administrative Law Judge's decision until
that person has exhausted his or her administrative remedies.
C. Within thirty(30) calendar days after submitting the petition,the party petitioning for
appeal shall request a copy ofthe record of the proceedings,including transcripts of
hearings when necessary. The Administrative Law Judge shall not submit copies of files
or transcripts to the reviewing court until the party petitioning for appeal has paid all
required costs. The petitioning party's failure to properly arrange for copies of the
record,or to pay the full costs for the record, within thirty(30) days after the petition for
review was filed shall be grounds for dismissal ofthe petition. If a transcript of a hearing
cannot be prepared because the tape recording is incomplete or unintelligible,the
District Court may,in its discretion, remand the matter to the Administrative Law Judge
for a supplemental proceeding to complete the record. The District Court may limit the
scope ofthe supplemental proceeding to issues that, in the court's opinion, need to be
clarified.
D. The district court's review is limited to the record of the administrative decision that is
being appealed. The court shall not accept nor consider any evidence that is not part of
the record of that decision.
E. The courts shall:
       1. Presume that the Administrative Law Judge's decision and orders are valid;
       2. Review the record to determine whether or not the decision was arbitrary,
          capricious, or illegal; or review the record according to the appropriate
          standard established by State law; and
       3. Affirm the issuance of the Administrative Enforcement Order if it is supported
          by substantial evidence.
F. The filing of a petition for review to the district court does not stay execution of an
   Administrative Enforcement Order. Before filing a petition for review,a Responsible
   Person may request the Administrative Law Judge issue a stay of the Administrative
   Enforcement Order. Upon receipt of a request to stay,the Administrative Law Judge
   may order the Administrative Enforcement Order to be stayed pending Court review if
   the Administrative Law Judge finds such stay to be in the best interest of the City. The
   Administrative Law Judge may require posting of a bond regardless ofwhether a stay
   issues.
                                         CHAPTERS
                     15.30: ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES


15.30.010: RECORDATION OF NOTICES OF VIOLATION


15.30.010.010: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE


The City Council finds that the recordation of Notices of Violation can be an effective method
of enforcement for violations of the City Code.The procedures established in this Part shall be
in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedy established by law that may be pursued to
address the violation of the City Code or applicable state codes.

15.30.010.020: AUTHORITY


Whenever the Department Head determines that a property or violation has not been brought
into compliance as required in this Title,the department head has the authority to record the
Notice of Violation or Administrative Code Enforcement Order with the Recorder's Office ofSalt
Lake County.

15.30.010.030: PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION


       A. Once the enforcement official has issued a Notice of Violation to a Responsible
          Person, and the property remains in violation after the deadline established in the
          Notice of Violation, and no request for an administrative hearing has been filed,the
          department head or enforcement official may record a Notice of Violation with the
          Recorder's Office of Salt Lake County.
       B. If an administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in the City's favor, the
          department head may record the Administrative Code Enforcement Order with the
          Recorder's Office of Salt Lake County.
       C. The recordation shall include the name of the property owner,the parcel number,
          the legal description of the parcel, and a copy of the Notice of Violation or order.
       D. The recordation does not encumber the property, but merely places future
          interested parties on notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.

15.30.010.040:SERVICE OF NOTICE OF RECORDATION


A notice of the recordation shall be served on the Responsible Person and the property owner
pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth in Section 15.10.020.010.

15.30.010.050: FAILURE TO REQUEST HEARING
The failure of any person to file a requestfor an administrative code enforcement hearing when
served with a Notice of Violation, Administrative Citation, Notice of itemized Statement for
Costs, or Notice of Emergency Abatement shall constitute a waiver of the right to an
administrative hearing and shall not affect the validity of the recorded Notice of Violation,
Administrative Citation, Notice of Itemized Statement for Costs, or Notice of Emergency
Abatement.


15.30.010.060: NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE PROCEDURES


    A. When a violation has been corrected, the Responsible Person or property owner may
    request an inspection of the property from the department head or enforcement official
    who issued the Notice of Violation.
    B. Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the department head or enforcement official
    shall reinspect the property as soon as practicable to determine whether the violations
    listed in the Notice of Violation or the order have been corrected,and whether all necessary
    permits have been issued and final inspections have been performed.
    C. The department head or enforcement official shall serve a Notice of Compliance to the
    Responsible Person or property owner in the manner provided in Section 15.10.020.010,if
    the department head or enforcement official determines that:
        1.   All violations listed in the recorded Notice of Violation or order have been
        corrected;
        2. All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;
        3. All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid or satisfied; and
        4. The party requesting the notice ofsatisfaction has paid all administrative fees and
        costs.
     D. If the department head or enforcement official denies a request to issue a Notice of
    Compliance, upon request the department head or enforcement official shall serve the
    Responsible Person with a written explanation setting forth the reasons for the denial.The
    written explanation shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section
    15.10.020.010 of this Title.
    E. No delay or omission on the part of the City to exercise any right or power accruing
    upon any violation shall impair any such right or power or shall be construed to be a waiver
    of any such violation or acquiescence therein and such right and power may be exercised
    as often as may be deemed expedient. The City's issuing of a Notice of Compliance in any
    instance shall not constitute continuing consent to subsequent instances and in all cases
    a Notice of Compliance may be granted or withheld at the sole discretion of the City. No
    prior Notice of Compliance shall affect any subsequent violation or shall impair any of the
    City's rights or remedies on said subsequent violation. Every substantive right and every
    remedy conferred upon the City may be enforced and exercised as often as may be deemed
    expedient.

15.30.010.070: WITHHOLDING ISSUANCE OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS OR LICENSES
Unless prohibited by other applicable law,the City may withhold business licenses; permits for
kennels; or permits for any alteration, repair, or construction pertaining to any existing or new
structures or signs on the property, or any permits pertaining to the use and development of
the real property or the structure until a violation is resolved. The City may withhold permits
until a Notice of Compliance has been issued by the department head or enforcement official.
The City may not withhold permits that are necessary to obtain a Notice of Compliance or that
are necessary to correct serious health and safety violations for failure to obtain a Notice of
Compliance.

15.30.010.080: CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION


If a Notice of Violation or other record of violation has been recorded on a property, after a
Notice of Compliance has been issued, the department head or enforcement official or the
Responsible Person shall record the Notice of Compliance with the County Recorder's Office.
Recordation of the Notice of Compliance shall have the effect of canceling the previously
recorded Notice of Violation or other record of violation.


                 15.30.020:SECTION 2- ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES


15.30.020.010 MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES


    A. Upon completion of the Notice of Violation or Administrative Code Enforcement Order,
    the Administrative Law Judge may modify the civil penalties on a finding of good cause.
    B. Civil penalties may be waived or modified by the Administrative Law Judge if there is a
    finding of good cause based on the Responsible Person's claim of nonconforming use or
    conditional use and:
          1. The City's need to verify the claim; or
          2. The Responsible Person's filing of an application for either use before expiration
          of the date to correct.


15.30.020.020: FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES.


The failure of any person to pay civil penalties assessed within the specified time may result in
the City pursuing any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided in the law.

15.30.030:SECTION 3: COSTS


15.30.030.010: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE


    A. The City Council finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by enforcement
    officials and other City personnel who spend considerable time inspecting and
   reinspecting properties throughout the City to ensure compliance with the City Code or
   applicable state codes.
   B. The City Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an appropriate method to
   recover expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations, reinspection fees, filing
   fees, attorney fees. Administrative Law Judge fees,title search, and any additional actual
   costs incurred by the City for each individual case. The assessment and collection of costs
   shall not preclude the imposition of any administrative or judicial civil penalties or fines
   for violations of the City Code or applicable state codes.

15.30.030.020: AUTHORITY


   A. Whenever actual costs are incurred by the City on a property to abate a violation or
   obtain compliance with provisions of the City Code or applicable state codes, the
   department head or enforcement official may assess costs against the Responsible
   Person. Such costs shall be itemized and provided to the Responsible Person in the form
   of a Notice of Itemized Statement of Costs.


          1. The Notice of Itemized Statement of Costs shall describe the name of the
             property owner, the address of the property, the date the violation was
             observed, the code sections violated and description of condition of the
             property that violates the applicable codes the date(s) on which the City took
             action to obtain compliance, a statement explaining the work done obtain
             compliance, the itemized cost of such work, and the procedures to request a
             hearing as provided in Section 15.20.020.030, and consequences for failure to
             request one.
         2. The Notice of Itemized Statement of Costs shall be served by one ofthe methods
             of service listed in Section 15.10.020.010.


    B. Once a Notice of Violation has been issued,the property may be inspected one time at
    no additional cost. Any additional inspections shall be subject to reinspection fees
    pursuant to the City fee schedule.

15.30.030.030: NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT OF REINSPECTION FEES


   A. Notification of reinspection fees shall be provided on the Notice of Violation served to
   the Responsible Person(s).
   B. Reinspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this Part shall not be included in
   any other costs assessed.
   C.The failure of any Responsible Person to receive notice ofthe reinspection fees shall not
   affect the validity of any other fees imposed under this Part.

15.30.030.040: FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS
The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in an invoice shall
result in a late fee pursuant to City policy.

15.30.040:SECTION 4:ADMINISTRATIVE FEES


15.30.040.010: ADMINISTRATIVE FEES


The department head or enforcement official is authorized to assess administrative fees for
costs incurred in the administration of this program, such as investigation of violations,
preparation for hearings, hearings, and the collection process. The fee assessed shall be the
amount set in the City's consolidated fee schedule.

15.30.050:SECTION 5:INJUNCTIONS


15.30.050.010: CIVIL VIOLATIONS - INJUNCTIONS


In addition to any other remedy provided underthe City Code or state codes,including criminal
prosecution or administrative remedies, any provision of the City Code may be enforced by
injunction issued by a court of appropriate jurisdiction upon a suit brought by the City.

15.30.060:SECTION 6:PERFORMANCE BONDS


15.30.060.010: PERFORMANCE BOND


    A. As part of any notice,order,or action,the Administrative Law Judge has the authority to
    require Responsible Persons to post a performance bond to ensure compliance with the
    City Code,applicable state codes,or any judicial action.
    B. If a Responsible Person fails to comply with the notice,order,or action,the bond will be
    forfeited to the City. The bond will not be used to offset the other outstanding costs and
    fees associated with the case.
                                          CHAPTER4
            15.40: RECOVERY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES AND COSTS


15.40.010:SECTION 1: CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIENS


15.40.010.010: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE


The City Council finds that recordation of code enforcement tax liens will assist in the
collection of civil penalties, administrative costs,and administrative fees assessed by the
administrative code enforcement hearing program or judicial orders. The City Council further
finds that collection of civil penalties, costs, and fees assessed for code enforcement
violations is important in deterring future violations and maintaining the integrity of the
City's code enforcement system.The procedures established in this Part shall be used to
complement existing administrative orjudicial remedies that may be pursued to address
violations ofthe City Code or applicable state codes.

15.40.010.020: PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITHOUT A JUDGMENT
    A. The department head or enforcement official shall prepare three copies ofthe
    Itemized Statement of Costs incurred in the removal and destruction of the violations
    and deliver them to the City Recorder within 10 days after completion ofthe work of
    removing the violations.
    B. The department head or enforcement official shall send, by registered mail to the
    property owner's last known address,a copy of the Itemized Statement of Costs
    informing him or her that a code enforcement tax lien is being recorded for the amount of
    actual costs of abatement. Payment shall be due within 20 calendar days from the date of
    mailing.
    C. Upon receipt of the Itemized Statement of costs,the City Recorder shall record a Code
    Enforcement Tax Lien against the property with the county treasurer's office.
    D.The failure of any person with a financial interest in the property to actually receive the
    notice of the lien shall not affect the validity ofthe lien or any proceedings taken to
    collect the outstanding costs of abatement.

15.40.010.030: PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITH A JUDGMENT


Once a judgment has been obtained from the appropriate court assessing costs against the
Responsible Person(s),the department head or enforcement official may record a code
enforcement tax lien against any real property owned by the Responsible Person(s).

15.40.010.040: CANCELLATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIEN


Once payment in full is received for the outstanding civil penalties and costs,or the amount is
deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent administrative orjudicial order,the department
head or enforcement official shall either record a notice of satisfaction ofjudgment,or
provide the property owner or financial institution with the notice of satisfaction ofjudgment
so that it can record this notice with the county recorder's office. The notice of satisfaction of
judgment shall include the same information as provided for in the original code
enforcement tax lien. Such notice of satisfaction ofjudgment shall cancel the code
enforcement tax lien.


15.40.020:SECTION 2: WRIT OF EXECUTION


15.40.020.010: RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF EXECUTION OR OTHER MEANS


After obtaining a judgment,the department head or enforcement official may collect the
obligation by use of all appropriate legal means.This may include the execution on personal
property owned by the Responsible Person by filing a writ with the applicable court.

15.40.030:SECTION 3: WRIT OF GARNISHMENT


15.40.030.010 RECOVERY OF COSTS BY WRIT OF GARNISHMENT OR OTHER MEANS


After obtaining a judgment,the department head or enforcement official may collect the
obligation by use of all appropriate legal means.This may include the garnishment of
paychecks,financial accounts,and other income or financial assets by filing a writ with the
applicable court.

15.40.040:SECTION 4:ALLOCATION OF FUNDS COLLECTED UNDER ADMINISTRATIVE
CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROGRAM


15.40.040.010: ALLOCATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES AND FUNDS COLLECTED


Civil penalties and funds collected pursuant to this title shall be deposited in the General
Fund of the City. Civil penalties and funds deposited shall be appropriated and allocated
pursuant to the City's budget process.
