                                    ORDINANCE NO.2024-02


AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH, AMENDING
BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TITLE 1.70.010


       WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-102 grants the City of Bluffdale (the "City") authority
to enactordinances that the Bluffdale City Council(the "City Council") considers necessary
or appropriate for the health,safety, and welfare of the City; and

       WHEREAS,the City has enacted Title 1.70.010 and 1.70.020 of the Bluffdale City
Code; and

         WHEREAS, the City Council finds it is in the best interest of the City to enact
amendments to Title 1.70.010 and 1.70.020.


NOW,THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BYTHE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH:

       SECTION 1. Amendment. Bluffdale City Code is hereby amended as shown on Exhibit A.

        SECTION 2. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is held
invalid or unenforceable,such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion
of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance shall be
severable.


       SECTION 3. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon
publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND ADOPTED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH,ON THIS
DAY OF                      .20^,BYTHE F0LL0WIN6V0TE:
                                                      YES     NO     ABSTAIN         ABSENT


                        Councilmember Aston
                        Councilmember Austin
                        Councilmember Crockett          /
                        Councilmember Lord
                        Councilmember Wilding           /      /
                        Mayor Hall (tie only)


Mayor:
                le Q. Ha                                       City Recorder

                                                CORPORATE
Exhibit A
1.70.010 Departments And Divisions

   A. Departments: The City Council mav create any department deemed necessary or
      appropriate for the administration of the City and mav prescribe bv resolution or
      ordinance the organization, powers, and duties of such bodies.




   bo created wi




   temporary changos to the organizational chart as long as the City Manager provides written

   the City Council for vote.

   B. There is created in the City the following departments:

      1. Community and Economic Development.
      2. Engineering.
      3. Public Works.
      4. Fire.
      5. Administrative Services.
      6. Legal, and
      7. Justice Court.


   C. Department Heads and Appointed Officers: The Citv Council shall advise and consent
      to the appointment or removal of department heads and appointed officers of the
      Citv. If desired,the Citv Council mav choose to be involved in the interview process of
      department heads and appointed officers of the City by participating in the interviews,
      appointing a committee of Council members to participate, or designating a
      representative to participate.

   AtD^       Interdepartmental Cooperation: Each department shall cooperate \A/lth other
       departments and furnish, upon the direction of the City Manager, such service, labor
       and materials as may be requisitioned by the head of such other department.
1.70.020 City Manager

      A. Duties: The duties of the City Manager are subject to the policies and programs
      established by the City Council and under the general direction and oversight ofthe City
      Council. The City Manager duties shall include the following:

      1. The City Manager shall manage the day-to-day duties and affairs of the City by
      applying the ordinances, policies and procedures of the City.

      2. Plan, organize and supervise City financial operations and keep the City Council
      informed and advised on the City's current financial situation and needs.

      3. Be responsible for managing the internal affairs ofthe City; develop,recommend and
      implement City policies, practices, rules, regulations and procedures; report to the City
      Council; advise the City Council regarding policy options and implementation
      procedures; carry out legislative directives and decisions; and be responsible for
      contracts administration.


      4. Be responsible for the full and effective use of City personnel by establishing, in
      consultation with department directors, or other management employees, overall
      department objectives, priorities and standards consistent with the goals and
      objectives ofthe City Council;serve as facilitator in the achievement of the City Council
      goals and in coordinating with management employeesfor effective implementation of
      City service levels, ordinances, resolutions, rules, regulations and directives; exercise
      managerial control to ensure that the City government and its respective departments
      function in the most efficient and effective manner.


      5. Represent the City at various meetings or other functions and respond to requests or
      inquiries about City policies, rules, ordinances, regulations, resolutions or services
      rendered by the City government.

      6. Recommend, prepare or cause to be prepared, for consideration by the Governing
      Body and advisory committees,long range strategic plans and programs to provide for
      the health, safety and welfare of the current and future inhabitants of the City; and
      furnish reports to the City Council as requested.

      7. Be responsible for the overall personnel management; implement City personnel
      ordinances and rules and regulations adopted by the City Council; coordinate
      personnel ordinances and rules and regulations adopted by the City Council;
      coordinate personnel functions with management employees, such as recruitment,
      selection and appointment; have authority to hire and fire all employees of the City,
except department heads and appointed officers as described in paragraph 8. the City

diGmiGGoi of the appointed officorG of the City (including the City Rocordor, City


 □GGiGtant; occupy a step in the appeals process available to employees with grievances;
 monitor personnel actions, promotion, discipline, demotion, separation and
 reclassification; coordinate personnel decisions with division heads; and coordinate
 activities of individuals rendering professional services under contract with the City^r
.Aappol )int and remove
                 remove w...
                          all dopartmont hoadG with    .... advice and consent of the -Gity
                                                ...... the                                ^
 Council. The City Council may be involved in the interview process of all deportment
 heads, or may appoint a committee of two (2) Council members to participate in the
 process, involvement by participation or committee will bo at the City Council's
discretion.


8. Consistent with Section IJO.OlOfCl. tThe Citv Manager shall interview and
recommend to the Citv Council the appointment or dismissal of the department heads
and appointed officers of the Citv including the Community and Economic
Development Director. Citv Engineer. Public Works Director. Fire Chief. Administrative
Services Director. City Attorney. Justice Court Judge. Citv Recorder, and City Treasurer.

98. Attend and participate in meetings of the City Council, but shall not have the right
to vote in said meetings.

109. Enforce all applicable laws, ordinances, rules and regulations of the City. Assure
that all franchises, leases, permits, licenses, contracts and privileges granted by the City
are fully performed and observed.

110. Act as the Appeal Authority for the appeal of fees pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-
701(l)(c).

1214. Perform all other duties, obligations and exercise the powers set forth by
ordinance, resolution, regulation or directive imposed by the City Council.

B. Relationship To City Council: In order to establish clear administrative roles, the
Mayor and City Council shall deal with all administrative duties of the City through the
City Manager. The City Manager shall report directly to the Mayor concerning personnel
matters. Neither the Mayor nor the City Council shall give orders to subordinates of the
City Manager, or other City staff, except the Mayor's Dssistant, either in public or in
private except that the Mayor may give orders to the Mayor's assistant. This does not
prevent City staff and members of the City Council from fraternizing, discussing ongoing
projects, discussing budgetary issues and discussing day to day problems that arise
within the City; however, all direction shall come through the City Council to the City
Manager, who shall direct City staff.

            K The City Manogcr need not be a rosidont of the City at the time of

to become a resident of the City within twelve (12) months after appointment.
