CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-26

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 11.80.060 OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TO
ALLOW BASEMENTS AND MODIFIED PERIMETER WALL REQUIREMENTS WITHIN THE R-
SL SENIOR LIVING ZONE.

WHEREAS the Bluffdale City Council approved Ordinance 2021-01 on February 24, 2021,
enacting the R-SL Senior Living Zone;

WHEREAS basements were prohibited in the R-SL Zone by Ordinance 2021-01;

WHEREAS the Bluffdale Planning Commission approved a Site Plan and Plat for the Reagan
Cove project, entitling twenty-eight dwelling units within the R-SL Zone, on September 29,
2021;

WHEREAS the Applicant, Howland Partners, desires to construct basements in the twenty-
eight entitled dwelling units and to reduce the maximum height of the perimeter wall from
eight feet to six feet;

WHEREAS the Applicant proposes an amendment to Section 11.80.060 (“R-SL Senior
Living”) to permit basements and to reduce the maximum height of the perimeter retaining
wall from eight feet to six feet;

WHEREAS a notice of public hearing for the proposed amendments was provided in
accordance with the Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code;

WHEREAS on October 15, 2025, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing and
forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposed Text Amendment to the City
Council.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

Section1. Adoption. Ordinance 2025-26 is hereby adopted, amending Section
11.80.060 of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

Section2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: November 12, 2025
CITY OF BLUFFDALE

May, r Natalie C. Hall

ATTEST: [seal]

City Recorder

Voting by the City Council: No Absent
Councilmember Aston
Councilmember Austin
Councilmember Crockett
Councilmember Lord
Councilmember Wilding

i
i
11.80.060 R-SL SENIOR LIVING ZONE
11.80.060.010 Purpose

The R-SL Senior Independent Living Zone is established to provide areas within the City for
housing for residents aged 55 years and older who prefer to reside in independently owned
dwelling units within a larger community of common area, open space, and amenities.
Rezoning to the R-SL Zone should be carefully reviewed to ensure compatibility with
existing development and adjacent neighborhoods.

11.80.060.020 Qualifications

1. Each proposed R-SL Senior Independent Living Zone shall have primary access from a
City designated major collector street within fifteen hundred feet (1500’) of Utah State
Route 154 (Bangerter Highway).

2. Each development project in the R-SL Zone shall be located on a parcel containing not
less than four (4) acres.

3. The density for any senior living project shall not exceed 6.50 units per acre for any R-SL
zone.

4. Each proposed R-SL Zone shall share a common boundary with a commercial
designated property.

11.80.060.030 Permitted And Accessory Uses
A. Permitted uses allowed within the R-SL Zone are provided as follows:
1. Single-family residential dwellings.
2. Multi-family residential dwellings not to exceed four (4) attached units.

B. Accessory uses allowed within the R-SL Zone are provided as follows: Minor home
occupations in compliance with BCC 3.80 with no employees.

11.80.060.040 Occupancy Qualifications And Restrictions

A. Dwelling units are restricted to a maximum unit size of two (2) bedrooms on the
main floor. A bonus room or loft is-attewed with a second-floor option over a garage
me re all

B. Dwelling units are intended for, and to be owned and occupied by, at least one (1)
person fifty-five (55) years of age or older per unit.
L.

A dwelling unit may be occupied by the surviving member(s) of a household,
regardless of age, if the qualifying person has passed away, provided the
surviving member(s) was a resident of the unit at the time of the qualifying
person’s death.

A dwelling unit may be occupied by the management, medical, or custodial
personnel of a qualifying resident.

A homeowners’ association (HOA) shall be established for each
development to ensure compliance with resident restrictions and provide
maintenance of buildings, open space, recreation facilities, and other
common areas.

11.80.060.050 Project Frontage

Any development in the R-SL Zone shall promote an active street frontage on all public
streets. The creation of a second frontage road or courtyard area on the street frontage, in
which units may be oriented toward, can also be an acceptable option for projects located

on collector roads.

11.80.060.060 Setbacks And Driveway Requirements

The following minimum setback requirements shall apply in the R-SL Zone. Each setback is
measured is-from the property line of the lot or parcel.

A. Front Setback; Unit and Driveway Access:

1.

Each building or structure in the R-SL Zone adjacent to a public or private
street shall have a minimum front setback of fifteen feet (15’) measured from
the right-of-way, otherwise, the front setback shall be a minimum of ten feet
(10’).

Driveways to each unit shall be required and driveway areas shall be a
minimum of twenty feet (20’) in length, exclusive of any sidewalk or
walkways. If units are accessed by an alley, the width of the alley shall be a
minimum of twenty-five feet (25’) and shall comply with all emergency
vehicle access requirements. Parking in the alley is not permitted.

B. Side Setback; Corner Lot:

1.

Each building or structure in the R-SL Zone shall have a minimum side
setback of ten feet (10').
2. Each corner lot or parcel in the R-SL Zone shall have a minimum setback of
twenty feet (20') along the street on the side of the lot not being used as the
front setback.

C. Rear Setback:

1. Each building or structure in the R-SL Zone adjacent to a public or private
street shall have a rear setback of fifteen feet (15’) measured from the right-
of-way, otherwise, the rear setback shall be a minimum of ten feet (10’).

11.80.060.070 Projections Into Setbacks

A. Permitted: The following structures may be erected on or projected into any required
setback:

1. Necessary appurtenances for utility service.

B. Setback Areas: The following structures may be erected on or projected into any
required front, side, or rear setback not more than two feet (2'):

1. Cornices, eaves, sills, buttresses, or other similar architectural features.
2. Awnings, decks, and planter boxes.
11.80.060.0680 Building Height Requirements

A. Aprimary building or structure may not exceed thirty-five feet (35') in height, nor be

lower than ten feet (10') in height.

B. Aprimary building or structure shall be built of slab-on-grade construction or; with
ne basements attowed.

11.80.060.090 Distance Between Buildings

The distance between any residential building or structure and any other residential
building or structure shall not be less than ten feet (10’).

11.80.060.100 Parking, Loading, And Access

Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with BCC 11.120. All senior living
projects are required to provide an off-street parking plan with the site plan application
which includes areas for snow storage.

11.80.060.110 Site Plan Approval

An applicant for approval in the R-SL Zone shall submit a site plan application in
accordance with all requirements of this Chapter and all other applicable City ordinances.
The Planning Commission is the land use authority to review and approve all site plans in
the R-SL Zone. An applicant may submit an application for site plan and preliminary and
final subdivision plat approval simultaneously, if desired. Each application will be approved
by the land use authority provided by BCC 11.30.090.

11.80.060.120 Development And Design Requirements

A. Purpose: To establish minimum development standards for independent living
multi-dwelling units within a structure. These standards are intended to ensure that
such development is well buffered from and compatible with adjacent property,
serves the needs of occupants thereof, and retains long-term viability and quality of
the project.

B. Unit Differentiation: Multi-dwelling unit buildings or structures (buildings) shall
. include design features that differentiate adjoining units and create identity for each
unit. This goal shall be achieved through the following requirements:

1.

Buildings shall include a variety of heights. However, long, continuous
rooflines greater than fifty feet (50’) shall not be permitted.

The front facade of the building shall exhibit visual relief through an array of
architectural features and varied individual unit setbacks. Articulation such
as roof dormers, hips, gables, balconies, porches, wall projections, and
fenestration shall be used to break up the visual massing of building facades.

Buildings shall include a variety of building colors and materials. A minimum
of three (3) colors per elevation is preferred.

Buildings shall incorporate variations of the following architectural elements:
Accent building materials, Door frames, Garage doors, Rooflines, Window
frames, and Window types.

Design: Buildings shall exhibit exceptional design qualities that enhance the
residential aesthetics of the surrounding properties. This shall be achieved
by the following requirements:

a) All exposed sides of the building shall have framed windows.

b) Side and rear elevations that are visible from public and private
streets shall equal the architectural detailing of the front facade.

c) Building materials shall consist of at least fifty percent (50%) brick,
stone, fiber cement board, or synthetic stone on all sides of the
8)

building. Windows are excluded from the gross calculation of exterior
building materials.

Shared entrances units shall be accentuated with architectural
detailing and well lit.

Utility and mechanical equipment extending from the building shall
be clustered and screened by compatible architectural materials or
appropriate vegetation. When the project architecture contains
pitched roofs, the roof mounted utility equipment shall be situated on
the back side of the roof pitch.

All units shall have a minimum of two-car garages which complement
the project architecture in terms of design, materials, and colors.
Driveways shall be required for each unit that are capable to park two
cars for off street parking and a minimum of twenty feet (20’) in length.

Garage doors shall exhibit quality design and color variation
throughout the project.

Allhomes shall be designed with senior living as the predominant
theme with the following elements:

1. Ne Optional basements;stab-on-grade-constrtetion.
3. Main floor master bedroom and laundry.
4. No more than two (2) bedrooms on the main floor.

5. Optional second story bonus room or loft.

Fencing within the project shall be limited to encotirage-sharec-open

space; pedestrian access, and project integration into the
surrounding neighborhood. Perimeter fencing around the project is
required and shall be a maximum of six eight feet (68’) in height and
be constructed of masonry or wrought iron. Perimeter fencing along
the southern boundary of the project shall be a maximum of eight feet
(8’) in height. Fencing within the subdivision shall be determined by
the HOA.

Required guest parking shall be evenly distributed throughout the
project and easily accessible in compliance with BCC 11.120.030.
6. Site Plan, Mobility, And Street Treatment: Pedestrian and automobile
circulation shall flow in a logical manner and integrate neighborhood street
connectivity.

a) Pedestrian pathways shall be provided between access points,
entryways, public gathering nodes, and parking areas. Pedestrian
access points should be installed between the project and the
external neighborhood.

b) To encourage pedestrian connectivity, senior living projects shall
connect sidewalks and walkways to public streets and adjacent
private streets at all logical points.

c) Senior living projects shall install sidewalks on both sides of all private
streets. Sidewalks shall be a width of no less than five feet (5').

7. All projects shall submit a lighting plan that illustrates lighting
accommodation for automobile and pedestrian users.

a) Low level bollard lighting is encouraged for illumination of internal
pedestrian pathways.

b) Exterior lighting along all streets shall be pedestrian in scale with a
maximum height of fourteen feet (14').

8. All projects shall submit a landscaping plan in accordance with site plan
requirements in accordance with BCC 11.150.

a) Landscaping shall be used as a land use buffer where appropriate.

b) Detention basins shall be adequately landscaped and maintained.
Drought tolerant landscaping for detention basins is highly
encouraged.

c) Allsloped areas shall be landscaped in accordance with adopted
standards.

9. Common Open Space: No less than thirty percent (30%) of the gross project
area, shall be designated for open space uses. Applicants for projects shall
submit an open space plan for the type of quality open space that the project
will provide. The open space plans shall be consistent with the following:
a) Be available to everyone residing in the boundaries of a development.
b) May include pathways and outdoor amenities.

c) Excludes private balconies, decks, patio areas, recreation buildings,
indoor amenities, vehicle parking, streets and streetscape sidewalks.
Open space should be centrally located and based on existing natural
features.

d) Be clustered to create the most beneficial and efficient use of space.

10. Amenities: Centrally located amenities shall be provided for projects such
as; but not limited to:
Community garden. Courtyard with benches. Picnic tables and barbecue
area with shade structures. Swimming pool (indoor or outdoor). Sports
courts (i.e., tennis, pickleball, etc). Natural open space area with
benches/viewing areas and/or trails.

11.80.060.130 Other Requirements
A. Signs: The following signs, and no others, are allowed in the R-SL Zone:

1. Development entrance monument signs not exceeding thirty-six (36) square
feet in the area to identify the project. The entrance signs are limited in height
to four feet (4') and must be approved at the time of development approval.
No electronic message boards are allowed.

B. Entry Gates: If a senior living project desires entry gates to be placed on ingress and
egress points, all gates and mechanisms shall be approved by the City Fire Chief in
accordance with all fire codes. Gates shall only be allowed for private streets.
