CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-25

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 7.10.070
RELATED TO LIABILITY PROTECTION FOR ENCROACHMENT PERMITS

WHEREAS, the City Council has adopted Chapter 7.10.070 regarding liability
protection issues related to encroachment permits; and

WHEREAS, the City desires to clarify some provisions in Chapter 7.10.070; and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the amendments in Exhibit A to Chapter 7 are
in the best interests of the health, safety, and welfare of the City.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

Section1. Adoption. Ordinance 2025-25 is hereby adopted amending Chapter
7.10.070 of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

Section2. | Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances,
resolutions, policies, or zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent
herewith they are hereby amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be
amended to comply with the provisions hereof, they are hereby repealed.

Section3. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
portion of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance
shall be severable.

Section4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: October 8, 2025
CITY-OF BLUFFDALE

ATTEST:
City Recorder

Voting by the City Council:

Councilmember Aston
Councilmember Austin
Councilmember Crockett
Councilmember Lord
Councilmember Wilding
Mayor Hall (tie only)

<

es

LRA

Saeen
EXHIBIT A
7.10.070 Liability Protection

A. Nonliability Of City For Damages: The permittee shall indemnify, defend and hold
the City harmless from any claims or judgments for damages or other relief against the City
as a result of acts or omissions of the permittee or its contractor, or arising out of or related
to the encroachment or other operations under the permit, whether the condition giving
rise to the claim or judgment was created in whole or in part by the permittee or its
contractor.

B. Liability Insurance: The permittee shall maintain liability insurance, including, but
not limited to, general liability insurance and automotive liability insurance, sufficient to
cover any claims for damages for personal injury, including death, and for damage to
property which may arise from the encroachment or other operations under the permit,
whether such encroachment or other operations are by the permittee, or by any agent, or
by anyone directly or indirectly employed by the permittee or permittee's agents.

Certificates of insurance shall be filed with the City Engineer and shall be subject to
approval for adequacy of protection. No permit shall be issued under this chapter unless
the applicant has submitted copies of insurance policies or certificates of insurance from a
company authorized to issue insurance in the State, evidencing that the applicant has, ata
minimum the following:

1. Commercial General Liability (including Umbrella Liability) coverage;thatinetudes
Gontracttiattiabitity coverage; with a minimum limit of two million dollars
($2,000,000.00) per occurrence; and

2. Automotive Liability coverage (Any Auto) in an amount not less than two million
dollars ($2,000,000.00) combined single limit (each accident) and property damage
insurance in an amount not less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)
per accident.

3. Workers Compensation and Employers' Liability coverage (statutory) or a waiver of
the same.

3:4. For minor residential projects including curb cutting, sidewalk replacement,
driveway repair or installation, or other similar level encroachments, homeowner’s
insurance with personal liability coverage of at least $3400,000. A copy of the
insurance policy or a certificate of insurance showing the coverage must be
provided by the homeowner.

Cc. Responsibility Of Subsequent Owners: All obligations, responsibilities and other
requirements of the permittee, as set forth in this chapter, shall be binding on subsequent
owners of the encroachment. Each subsequent owner shall be required to apply for and
receive an encroachment permit modification, including the new owner's information.
