CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-27
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 9.10.030, 11.30.060, 11.190, AND 12.90 OF THE
BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TO COMPLY WITH REQUIREMENTS ENACTED BY THE 2025 UTAH
STATE LEGISLATURE THROUGH HB 368.

WHEREAS the Utah State Legislature passed House Bill 368 during the 2025 General
Session;

WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale has reviewed its ordinances and proposes amendments to
multiple sections to comply with requirements enacted by House Bill 368;

WHEREAS a notice of public hearing for the proposed amendments was provided in
accordance with the Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code;

WHEREAS on October 15, 2025, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing and
forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposed amendments to the City Council.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

Section1. Adoption. Ordinance 2025-27 is hereby adopted, amending Sections
9.10.030, 11.30.060, 11.190, and 12.90 of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

Section2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: November 12, 2025

CITY OF BLUFFDALE

1 bilan lol

Maydr NA dra talie C. Hall

ATTEST: [seal]

Aidit

City Recorder

Voting by the City Council:

Councilmember Aston
Councilmember Austin
Councilmember Crockett
Councilmember Lord
Councilmember Wilding

<

es

Absent
8.60.050 Land Disturbance Permits

D. Building Permit: No building shall commence pursuant to an approved building permit
shattbeissted until the applicant has obtained a land disturbance permit or a waiver of the

same from the City where the sameis+reqtired by this chapter.
9.10.030 Permits

Ts

Permit Required: Except as otherwise specifically provided in the building codes, no
building, structure or building service equipment shall be erected, constructed,
enlarged, altered, repaired, moved, improved, removed, converted or demolished
unless a separate and appropriate permit for each building, structure or building
service equipment is first obtained from the building official as set forth in chapter 3
of the uniform administrative code.

Application For Permit: Application for a permit shall be made by filing an
application for permit and supporting documents required by the building codes

with the building official. Applicants may submit identical plans as defined in Utah
-9a- nd

Issuance Of Permit: The allo for permit and SupPanINE documents shall be
reviewed by putding-offietatanctany othe ate-e
ensure compliance with pertinent laws. If the building official finds that the work
described in the application for permit and supporting documents conform to the
requirements of the building codes and other pertinent laws, and that the fees
required herein have been paid, the building official shall issue a permit to the
applicant.

Approved Plans: Upon issuing a permit, the building official shall endorse in writing
or stamp any plans and/or specifications filed therewith as "approved". Such
approved plans and/or specifications shall not be changed, modified or altered
without authorization from the building official.

11.30.060 Notice Requirements and Public Hearings

B.

Annexation
policy plan

A. 14 calendar days prior to
first public meeting (1) Class B Notice; AND

B. 14 calendar days prior to | (2) Notice mailed to all record owner(s) of
first public hearing property within the proposed annexation
area; AND

(3) Any additional notice required by Utah

C. Within 30 calendar days
Code Part 10-2-48, as amended.

after adopting plan

(1) Class B Notice, and

10 calendar days before (2) In the case of Agreement provisions
first meeting or hearing and differing from current City Code,
Development . . . ; .
— finateetion on agreement, notice shall also be provided in
unless excepted by Utah accordance with Adoption of
Code §10-9a-532. Amendments of Land Use
Ordinances.

11.190 ANNEXATION

11.190.010 Purpose And Intent; Statute Applicability

i.

The purpose of this chapter is to provide a process for extension of the City
corporate limits through annexation. The process will allow the City Council, staff
and citizens of the community to carefully consider the affeet effect of any
proposed annexation and provide a method to mitigate potential negative impacts.

It is the intent of this chapter to conduct annexation proceedings in accordance with
State law and, in particular, Utah Code 10-2 Part 48, and any other applicable
Federal, State or local laws governing Municipal extension. If there is any conflict
between this chapter and the provisions of Utah Code, the provisions of Utah Code
shall dictate. When amendments are made to Utah Code, they shall cause like
amendments to this chapter. The requirements of this chapter are supplementary
and in addition to those found in the Utah Code.

Annexations are legislative matters and applicants should be aware that the City is
not required to accept any petition for annexation, regardless of location, even if the
proponent of an annexation is prepared to comply with all provisions required for
annexation. The proponent of an annexation is not eligible for any refund of the fees
required by the City if the petition is denied. If a petition for annexation is denied by
the City Council, the proponent of the annexation shall be required to submit a new
application and pay all associated fees in order to have the petition reviewed again
by the Council and staff.

Once an applicant has completed the requirements of this chapter and has
received final approval from the City Council, the staff shall prepare an annexation
agreement that will describe the annexation in detail. Once the Mayor and applicant
have signed the annexation agreement and annexation plat, and the agreement and
plat have been recorded in the Office of the County Recorder, the annexation shall
be considered complete. The annexation agreement runs in perpetuity with the area
being annexed and all future owners of the land are subject to the agreement. Any
violation of the agreement may result in disconnection from the City, denial of land
use applications, or appropriate legal action.

For the purposes of this chapter, the proponent, petitioner, applicant or developer
shall be defined as those persons who have signed the annexation petition in favor
of annexing their real property into the City. Reference to the singular shall include
plural when appropriate.

11.190.030 Application Procedure

The proponent for annexation shall make application on a form provided by the city and pay
all applicable fees prior to any review by staff, the stanning- commission Planning
Commission or the eity-eetineit City Council. The application shall include, at a minimum,
the following information:

1.

Ownership Plat Map: An ownership plat map from Salt Lake County showing all
property owners in the city within one thousand feet (1,000') of the proposed
annexation and one-half (1/2) mile of the annexation in the incorporated area of the
county. If the petition is accepted for further review, the applicant shall provide
preaddressed stamped envelopes with the names of all property owners in the city
within one thousand feet (1,000') of the proposed annexation and property owners
within one-half (1/2) mile of the annexation in the unincorporated area of the county.

Signatures: Signatures from the owners of real property located in the area
proposed for annexation that covers a majority of the private land and is equalin
value to at least one-third (1/3) of the value of all private property, as shown by the
latest tax assessment rolls of Salt Lake County, in the proposed annexation.

Map: An accurate map prepared by a licensed surveyor of the area proposed for
annexation suitable for recordation in the office of the county recorder.
4. Dedications: Documentation for provisions of adequate water, public rights of way,
streets, and other dedications required by this chapter or other federal, state or

local laws or ordinances.

Agreement: An agreement to observe and obey all applicable laws, ordinances and
resolutions recognized by the city.

Zoning Designation: The applicant shall indicate the proposed zoning designation of
the area to be annexed.

11.190.040 Acceptance Or Denial Of Annexation Petition

i:

Review Of Application: Once an applicant has completed the application procedure
in accordance with section +4-+9-3 11.190.030 of this chapter, the application will
be reviewed by the ptanning- commission Planning Commission and eityeouneit City
Council. The review of the annexation petition shall be completed in the following
manner:

iis

The ptanning commission Planning Commission shall review the annexation

petition to determine if the applicant has satisfied the requirements of
section +4+-+9-3 11.190.030 of this chapter and to ensure that all review fees
have been paid. The ptanning- commission Planning Commission shall also
determine whether the proposed application is consistent with the general
plan, and review the proposed zoning designation, and prepare and
recommend an annexation policy plan conistent with the requirements listed
in Utah Code 10-2-803, as amended. Following the review of the application,
the ptanning- commission Planning Commission will forward a
recommendation to the eity cotmeit City Council indicating items that need

to be completed prior to acceptance of the petition for further review by the
staff.

The eity cetineit City Council shall review the recommendation of the
ptanning- commission Planning Commission, along with the application for
annexation and any other relevant information, and adopt a recommended
annexation policy plan as required by Utah Code 10-2-803, as amended. The
eity-eouneit City Council shall determine if the application satisfies the
requirements of section ++-+9-3_11.190.030 of this chapter, and ensure that
all review fees have been paid. The eity eotreit City Council shall also
determine whether the proposed application is consistent with the city
general plan. Following the review of the application, the city cotuneitCity
Council shall accept the annexation petition for further review, accept the
petition for further review based on the satisfaction of certain conditions,

remand the petition back to the ptanning commission Planning Commission

for further review, or deny the petition for annexation.

3. Acceptance of the annexation petition is only an action to further study the
proposed annexation. The eity-cetneit City Council is under no obligation to
annex the area following a staff analysis of the proposed annexation. If the
petition is accepted for further review, the applicant is eligible to satisfy the
requirements of this chapter in order to complete the annexation process. At
any point in the approval process, the eity-ecotneit City Council may deny the
petition for annexation by notifying the applicant in writing.

2. Acceptance For Further Review: If accepted for further review, the application will
be reviewed by the staff, who will generate a list of items needed to complete the
review of the proposed annexation. Staff will inform the applicant of the items
needed to complete the review within thirty (30) days of the ety eottret+City Council
action to accept the petition for further review. An applicant may appeal to the eity
eotineit City Council the need for particular information at a regular meeting of the
eity- cote: City Council.

3. Staff Recommendation: Once the staff has received all of the information
requested, the staff shall prepare a recommendation to present to the city cotreit
City Council within forty five (45) days. Staff shall not begin review of the annexation
until all of the information requested has been received. Staff shall prepare a
recommendation based on the requirements of this chapter and any other
information that would mitigate negative impacts of the annexation.

4. Denial; Resubmission: Denial of a petition for annexation will have the affect of
ending any further review of the proposed annexation. In order to have the land
annexed into the city, the applicant will need to resubmit the proposed annexation
as anew petition and satisfy each of the requirements of this chapter, including the
payment of all review fees.

Appeals of annexation approval or denial shall be provided pursuant to Utah Code

11.190.050 Approval Process For Accepted Petitions

1. Public Hearing: After the eity-eotnmeit City Council has accepted an annexation
petition for further review and the staff has prepared a recommendation (within 45
days of receiving all of the required information), the city recorder City Recorder
shall schedule a public hearing before the city eotneit City Council.

2. Notice Of Hearing; Hearing: The city eetineit City Council shall schedule a public
hearing before the eity cotneit City Council with at least fourteen (14) days' notice.
The notice requirements of section +4+-+9-6 11.30.060 of this chapter shall be
satisfied prior to holding the public hearing. The ety eetnmeit City Council shall
review the recommendation of the staff, allow the applicant to make a presentation
or respond to the staff recommendation, and shall receive public input concerning
the annexation. Following the public hearing, the city eotneit City Council may
approve the proposed annexation, approve the proposed annexation along with the
recommendation of staff, approve the proposed annexation based on the
satisfaction of certain conditions, or deny the proposed annexation. The eity couneit
City Council will base their decision on the information contained in this chapter,

specificatty sections 44+-19-6 thresh 44-19-42 ofthis chapter, and the annexation
agreement between the city and the applicant. (Ord. 10-24-00-1, 10-24-2000)

11.190.060 Notification Requirements For Accepted Petitions

1. Notice According To State Law: The city, at the expense of the applicant, shall
provide notice, in accordance with state law, specifically Utah Code $+0-2-486 Part
10-2-8 and as amended, prior to the public hearing on the proposed annexation. Fre

3. Contents Of Notice: The notice shall contain the place, time and date of the public
hearing on the proposed annexation, along with a general description of the area to
be annexed. The notice shall state that public input will be accepted at the hearing
and how to contact the city to obtain additional information.

11.190.070 Recordation Of Annexation

If the proposed annexation is approved by the eity-eotmeit City Council, a copy of the plat of
the proposed annexation and the annexation agreement shall be recorded in the office of
the Satttake County recorder Recorder. All recording fees shall be the responsibility of the
proponent of the annexation.

11.190.080 General Annexation Guidelines

There are several annexation guidelines that applicants should be aware of prior to
submission of a petition of annexation. Some of these guidelines are dictated by state
statute and others are policy of the city. In any instance, the following guidelines shall be
reviewed upon submission of each annexation petition.

1. Unincorporated Island Or Peninsula: An annexation that would create, or have the
affect of creating, an unincorporated island or peninsula will not be approved. An
"island" shall be defined as an area of unincorporated land completely surrounded
by land located in the city. A "peninsula" shall be defined as an area surrounded on
more than one-half (1/2) of its boundary distance, but not completely, by the city.

2. Existing Uses: Existing uses may or may not be allowed in the annexation process.
Animal rights, agricultural uses and other uses, if inappropriate, may not be allowed
following annexation.

11.190.090 Financial Review

Each applicant for annexation to the city will be required to enter into an annexation
agreement with the city. The agreement will specify site specific requirements for each
annexation which are appropriate as reviewed on a case by case basis. The following list
includes several items that may be reviewed at the time of annexation; however, these are
in no way intended to be the only items which will be reviewed at annexation and the eity
eotineit City Council may include any conditions or requirements which, in their judgment,
are necessary or desirous prior to approving the proposed annexation:

1. Analysis Of Tax Consequences: Each proponent of an annexation shall complete an
analysis of the tax consequences to residents of the area proposed for annexation,
current residents of the city and Satttake-Geunty subject county. The analysis shall
include sufficient information to determine the fiscal impact on the proposed
annexation, taking into consideration city service provisions.

2. Demand On City Provided Facilities And Services: Each proponent of an annexation
shall identify the anticipated demand on city provided facilities and services for the
area to be annexed. These services include, bttare nettimitedte,; culinary water,
irrigation, wastewater, transportation facilities, drainage, emergency services
provision, setic+waste dispesat potentiat students and distances to ptubtie se

and parks and recreation.
3. Impact On Capital Improvements Program: Each proponent of an annexation will
need to provide information about the impact the annexation will have on the capital
improvements program (CIP). The information should indicate whether the
proposed annexation will advance or inhibit the completion of the CIP. The
proponent shall also indicate the proposed timing of capital improvements and how
the services will be financed.

11.190.100 Water Requirements For Annexations

Each proponent of an annexation shall mitigate the water concerns prior to approval of the
proposed annexation. The eity-cetneit City Council reserves the right to evaluate any
provision of water proposed for use by the city, and refuse to accept any arrangement, if it
is determined that the quantity, quality or ability to use the water is in question.

1. Adequate Water: Each proponent of an annexation will be required to provide
adequate water for current and future use by the city prior to recordation of the
annexation. The amount of water shall be determined by zoning district. If future
development on the land being annexed increases in density through a zone change
or amendment to city ordinance that would allow a higher density, the city shall
require additional water prior to development approval. If a future applicant desires
a zone change to a less intense zone, the city is under no obligation to refund the
cost of providing water to the proponent of an annexation. The water required in
each zone as directed in accordance with the water ordinance.

2. Annexation Without Owner Consent: When land is annexed without the consent of
the owner, the proponent of the annexation shall be responsible to provide the water
required in this section. If a future applicant seeks a zone change that would allow a
higher density, the applicant shall be required to provide any additional required
water shares.

3. Waiver Or Modification By City Council: The eityeotneit City Council may waive or
modify the water requirement, dependent upon proposed usage, for any land owned
by federal, state, county or local municipal governments.

11.190.110 Zoning Designation

When land is annexed into the city, it shall be given a zoning designation and future land
use designation. In general, zoning should be consistent with surrounding zoning that
would allow uses similar to those already in existence prior to the annexation. trratteases;
zoning shatt be consistentwiththe generat ptan. Annexations may include more than one

zoning district if appropriate. The city counet City Council may assign zoning to the
proposed annexation or accept the applicant's zoning proposal.
11.190.120 Staff Report And Recommendation

1,

Staff Report: Upon receipt of all information required by this chapter and any
additional information requested by the staff or eity-eettmeit City Council, staff will
complete a review of the proposed annexation and render a report to the eity
eotineit City Council. The report will include the findings of the staff in regard to the
accuracy of the information provided by the applicant, consistency with the general
plan and other city ordinances, and provide recommendations which would be
beneficial in the formation of the annexation agreement between the city and
applicant. Staff analysis would include a determination of how city services would
be affected by the proposed annexation.

Annexation Agreement: The staff shall also prepare the annexation agreement for
review by the eity eetneit City Council. The eity eotrneit City Council may request
changes in the annexation agreement prior to the public hearing. If a change is
proposed, the applicant will be contacted in regard to the proposed changes.

11.190.130 Annexation Agreement

1.

Required: Prior to final approval of any annexation, the proponent of an annexation
and the city shall enter into an annexation agreement specifying the terms and
conditions of the annexation. Each annexation agreement will be based ona site
specific basis and the elements of the agreement may, and probably will, differ on
each annexation. Because each annexation agreement may differ, each annexation
will be processed on a case by case basis with no precedent set by previous
annexation agreements.

Signatures: Each annexation agreement shall be signed by both the mayer Mayor,
upon ratification by the eityeetmett City Council, and the proponent of the
annexation. By signing the annexation agreement, both parties are agreeing to
uphold the provisions of the agreement as written. Amendments to the annexation
agreement may be completed only if agreed to in writing by the eitycotrneit City
Counciland the applicant.

Default: Should the proponent of an annexation default on any provisions of the
agreement, the city may pursue appropriate legal action to enforce the provisions of
the agreement, including revocation of the annexation and disconnection from the
city.
4. Issues Addressed In Agreement: The items listed below are issues that may be
addressed in the annexation agreement, but is not necessarily a complete list of

items that may be addressed by the eity cote City Councilor staff:

1. Each annexation agreement shall include a description of the property,
complete with a legal description and amount of acreage, which shall be
depicted on a plat drawn to scale in a manner and on a medium that can be
recorded in the office of the Satttake-County reeerderRecorder.

2. Each annexation agreement shall include the designated zoning district and
the proposed project density. The city eouneit City Council may require
actual density to be indicated in the annexation agreement as well as
proposed development layout and proposed provision of services. The
circulation pattern for the area and alignment of other city services will be
indicated prior to the approval of the eityeetneit City Council; however,
approval of an annexation shall not be considered development approval.
Following annexation approval, each applicant shall be required to complete
the development approval process.

3. Each annexation agreement will indicate areas proposed for trails, open
space and recreational areas. The agreement will specify ownership of these
areas and proposed maintenance arrangements. If the annexation area
includes an area that requires unusual fire prevention measures as an open
space area, the agreement will indicate specific measures that will be taken
to minimize potential fire hazard.

4. Each annexation agreement shall indicate the provision of water in
accordance with section +4-+9-+6 11.190.100 of this chapter.

5. The eityeotreit City Council may require proposed building pads to be

shown on the annexation plat and indicated in the annexation agreement.

The eity-eetneit City Council may also require limits of disturbance plans to
be indicated along watercourses and bodies, steep slopes, wetlands,
viewsheds and other environmentally sensitive areas.

6. The eity-cotneit City Council may impose any other appropriate

requirements in the annexation agreement that will mitigate potential
impacts to the city.

11.190.140 Appeals And Other Costs Of Annexation
The proponent of an annexation shall agree to pay any and all city costs related to the
annexation proceedings, including appeals, reimbursement, special studies, recordation
and other annexation related expenses. Because each annexation is different, the costs
associated with each particular annexation may vary.

11.190.150 Review Fees

The proponent of an annexation shall pay an annexation review fee as set forth in the city
fee schedule. Annexation review fees do not include other review fees, including, but not
limited to, development review fees, impact fees, building permit fees and connection fees.

11.210 Nonconformities
11.210.010 Definitions; Burden Of Establishing Legal Existence

1. Definitions:

NONCOMPLYING STRUCTURE: A-strteture thattegatty existed before tts current

nd: A structure that:

ause 0 rmor ntl in hanges, di
conform to the setback, height restrictions, or other regulations, excluding those
lati i e f land.

NONCONFORMING LOT: A lot that:
1. Legally existed before its current land use (zoning) designation;

2. Has been shown continuously on the records of the Salt Lake County
Recorder as an independently existing piece of property; and

3. Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance changes does not
conform with the minimum size, width, frontage, depth or other applicable
dimensional requirements of the zone where the Lot is located.

NONCONFORMING USE:

ceo tet e ap

(a) Legally existed before its current land use designation;

(b) Has been maintained continuously since the time the land use

(c) Because of one or more subsequent land use ordinance
changes does not conform to the regulations that now govern
the use of the land.

12.90.010 Assurance For Completion And Maintenance Of Improvements

1.

2.

Completion Of Improvements: Before the final plat is signed by the city engineer, all
applicants shall be required to complete any and all improvements required for
development or provide an improvement completion assurance according to
subsection B of this section. The applicant shall dedicate all applicable land and
public improvements to the city, including any water right transfers, conservation
easements or dedications of public lands to land trusts, free and clear of all liens
and encumbrances on the property and public improvements thus dedicated.

Improvement Completion Assurance:

A

2.

The applicant shall post an acceptable improvement completion assurance
("completion assurance") prior to the recording of the final plat, in an amount
estimated by the city engineer sufficient to secure to the city the satisfactory
construction, installation, dedication of all required landscaping and
infrastructure improvements. The amount of the completion assurance shall
be in an amount or value equal to one hundred percent (100%) of the
estimated cost of the required improvements and amenities as determined
by the city engineer.

The completion assurance shall comply with all statutory requirements and
shall be satisfactory to the city attorney as to form, sufficiency and manner of
execution as set forth by the city attorney. The completion assurance may
not be used to pay any contractual obligations of the applicant.
1. The completion assurance agreement shall be completed on the city
supplied bond agreement form for the full subdivision improvements
cost and be in one of the following forms:

1. An escrow agreement and deposit account with a federally
insured bank or credit union making proceeds available to the
city in the case of the developer's default upon the city
presenting a sight draft at an office located within fifty (50)
miles of the city. (Three party bond agreement.)

2. Cash or a cashier's check, for deposit with the city in its bank
accounts. (Two party bond agreement.)

2. The completion assurance shall be approved by the city engineer with
surety and conditions satisfactory to protect the public's interest and
ensure construction of required improvements.

3. Interest, if any, earned by the-city on the deposited sum shall be

y y s) carro )

i returned to the applicant
upon completion and refund of the bond.

4. Allrequired subdivision improvements shall be completed within two (2)
years of final plat approval. At such time, if the improvements have not been

completed, the eityeetreit City Council may direct the city engineer to
complete the remaining improvements using the completion assurance.

3. Temporary Improvements: The applicant shall build and pay for all costs of
temporary improvements required by the city, and shall maintain them for the
period specified. Prior to construction of any temporary facility or improvement, the
developer shall file with the city engineer a separate suitable completion assurance,
in accordance with this title, for temporary facilities, which ensures that the
temporary facilities will be properly constructed, maintained and removed.

4. Costs Of Improvements: All required improvements shall be completed by the
applicant, at their expense, without reimbursement by the city or any improvement
district therein, and in accordance with adopted codes, standards, fee schedules
and ordinances.

5. Acceptance Of Dedication Offers: Acceptance of formal offers of dedications of
streets, public areas, easements and parks shall be by ordinance of the city council
when a final plat is not prepared.
12.90.030 Inspection Of Improvements And Release Of Improvement Completion
Assurance

1. General Procedure And Fees: The city engineer or designee shall inspect the
required improvements and amenities during construction and ensure their
satisfactory completion. The applicant shall, in accordance with the city fee
schedule, pay to the city inspection fees. These fees shall be due and payable upon
demand of the city. Completion assurance and/or improvement warranty monies
may not be released until all outstanding inspection fees are paid. If the city
engineer finds, upon inspection, that any of the required improvements have not
been constructed in accordance with the adopted design guidelines and standard
specifications and plans, the applicant shall be responsible for completing the
improvements. The city shall use any and/or all completion assurance monies to
complete any improvements that are not according to design guidelines and
standard specifications and have not been rectified by the applicant.

2. Reduction Of Improvement Completion Assurance: At the written request of the
applicant, the city engineer shall reduce the completion assurance after the city has
inspected and accepted any portion of the landscaping or infrastructure
improvements that have been built by the amount relative to the completed work up
to seventy five percent (75%) of the total cost of all improvements.

3. Acceptance Of Public Improvements: The applicant, upon completion of a portion
or all of the improvements shall request in writing that the city perform a final
inspection to verify that the construction of the improvements meets all city

requirements. The-eity engineer-shattinform-the city cotineit ofthe acceptance e

4. Release Of Improvement Completion Assurance: Subject to the maintenance
provisions contained in this title, the city may not accept dedication of required
improvements or amenities, or release a completion assurance, until the city
engineer has verified that all required improvements and amenities have been
satisfactorily completed and until the applicant's engineer or surveyor has certified
to the city engineer, through submission of detailed "as-built" drawings of the
subdivision indicating location, dimensions, materials, improvements and other
information required by the city engineer, that the layout of the line and grade of all
public improvements is in accordance with the approved construction plans for the
subdivision. The "as-built" plans must comply with subsection D, "As-Built
Drawings", of this section. Any or all remaining portion of the completion assurance
will be released after the city has ascertained that "as-built" plans have been
submitted in accordance with section D. Further, a title insurance policy shall be
furnished to the city attorney and city engineer indicating that the improvements
have been completed, are ready for dedication to the local government, and are free
and clear of any and all liens and encumbrances. Upon such approval and
recommendation, the city manager shall thereafter accept the improvements for
dedication in accordance with the established policy and procedure.

5. As-Built Drawings:

1. "As-builts" shall be submitted electronically. Electronic files shall include
one (1) AutoCAD drawing compatible with AutoCAD version 2004 or newer.
SHAPE files shall include separate SHAPE files for each utility, including
drinking water, secondary water, storm drain, sewer, roads and parks that are
compatible with the latest version of ArcView. AutoCAD drawings and SHAPE
files shall be in State Plane Coordinates (Utah Central Zone - NAD 1983).
Survey points of as-builts need to also be included in the AutoCAD drawing.
A PDF of the final "Record Drawing" also needs to be included. All rim and
invert elevations need to be shown on this drawing, as well as all pipe types
and sizes.

2. "As-built" drawings shall be based on survey information provided by the
developer's engineer or surveyor. The SHAPE files shall include detailed
information based upon survey points for:

1. Fire hydrants;

Water lines (size and type);

Water valves;

Water meter boxes;

Pressurized irrigation lines (size and type);
Pl valves;

Pump house corners;

Water blowoffs/drain structures;

oe N 2 A PF WO N

Air release structures;
10. Pipe corners;

11. Roadway centerline;

12. Structure centerline;

13. Storm drain lines (size and type);

14. Storm drain manholes (rim and fl elevations);

15. Storm drain inlets (rim and fl elevations) with any permanent BMPs
(flex-storm, dandi bags, and the like) identified;

16. Storm drain detention/retention structures;

17. Sewer lines (size and type);

18. Sewer manholes (rim and fl elevations);

19. Sewer structures;

20. Park boundaries; and

21. Recreational facilities general locations.
12.90.040 Escrow Deposits For Lot Improvements

Temporary Certificate Of Occupancy Limited: When, by reason of the season of the year,
any lot improvements required by the subdivision regulations cannot be performed due to
valid weather related delays, the eity eetne Building Official may, nevertheless, approve
the issuance of temporary certificates of occupancy, provided there is no danger to health,
safety or general welfare, all streets have been paved, and all fire safety provisions are in
place. Any deferred improvements shall post a cash escrow deposit in an amount
determined by the city engineer for the cost of improvements, and shall be installed within
six (6) months from the date of city este approval. The completion assurance covering
such lot improvements shall remain in full force and effect.
