CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-24

AN ORDINANCE APPROVING AND ADOPTING AN INTEGRATED WATER AND LAND USE
ELEMENT OF THE BLUFFDALE GENERAL PLAN AS REQUIRED BY STATE LAW.

WHEREAS the Utah State Legislature passed Senate Bill 110 in 2022 and Senate Bill 76 in
2023, requiring all counties and most municipalities to develop an Integrated Water and
Land Use Element to be adopted into the General Plan;

WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale is required by State Law to approve and adopt an Integrated
Water and Land Use Element of its General Plan on or before December 31, 2025;

WHEREAS the City of Bluffdale has drafted an Integrated Water and Land Use Element of
the General Plan to satisfy the requirements of State Law;

WHEREAS a notice of public hearing for the proposed amendments was provided in
accordance with the Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code;

WHEREAS on December 3, 2025, the Planning Commission conducted a duly noticed public
hearing and forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposed Element to the City
Council.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

Section1. Adoption. Ordinance 2025-24 is hereby adopted, approving and
adopting an Integrated Water and Land Use Element of the Bluffdale General Plan as shown
in Exhibit A.

Section2. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: December 10, 2025
CITY OF BLUFFDALE

CT atiRellasd

Mayor Natalie C. Hall

ATTEST: [seal]

City Recorder

Voting by the City Council: Yes No Absent

Councilmember Aston A
Councilmember Austin ral
Councilmember Crockett o

Councilmember Lord
Councilmember Wilding
Integrated Land Use and Water Element

Introduction

In 2022 and 2023, the Utah State Legislature passed Senate Bill 110 and Senate Bill 76
respectively, requiring most municipalities and all counties to develop an integrated land use
and water conservation element of the General Plan. This document is intended to serve as
the City of Bluffdale’s required Integrated Land Use and Water Preservation Element. Water
conservation and source protection are paramount as the City of Bluffdale continues to grow.
This Element outlines the City’s existing and projected water needs, conservation goals for

the community, and their impacts on future land uses.

The City of Bluffdale has experienced rapid population growth in the past 20 years, going
from a population of 4,700 people in 2000 to approximately 20,000 people today.
Development has slowed in recent years due to the lack of developable land. Municipal
general plans typically have a lifespan of five to ten years; Bluffdale’s General Plan was most
recently amended in 2022 and is midway through its lifespan. Updating the Plan regularly will
allow the City to respond to changing needs by informing any necessary amendments to
policies and ordinances. The next large-scale development will be when the Geneva Rock
Mining Pit begins redevelopment, but that is not expected for at least 20-40 years after
Geneva has completed all mining operations. The City will continue to see infill development
in other areas over the next several years.

Existing Land Use and Water Demand

Existing Water Conservation Element and Land Use Element

Bluffdale has been recognized for its very low-density residential development pattern with
large estate lots and horse properties to the west of Redwood Road and agricultural
properties near the southern end of the city. Higher-density residential and commercial
developments have been built within the last 15 years, particularly east of the Union Pacific
railroad tracks, along Redwood Road, along Porter Rockwell Boulevard, and in the Bringhurst
Station area.

The City anticipates the majority of its future growth will be within the gravel pit areas and
along the 14600 South/Bluffdale Boulevard corridor, along with infill along Redwood Road
through the Bringhurst Station development. These growth areas will include a mix of
_ residential and commercial uses. Under
the existing Future Land Use Map,
Bluffdale’s anticipated population at 2050
_ buildout is 32,000 people, an increase of
205% over the 2020 decennial Census
count. The City of Bluffdale adopted the
existing Water Conservation Element of

: the General Plan! on February 10, 2016,

~ through Resolution 2016-147. The Element
was most recently updated on January 26,
2022, through Resolution 2022-08°. City
Staff utilized the Water Conservation Plan
to inform the creation of this Element.

Figure 1: Excerpt of WFRC's Wasatch Choice
Vision map, showing urban (red) and city (orange)
centers where Bluffdale anticipates the majority
of its future development.

Bluffdale’s Water System

As noted in the Water Conservation Element, most drinking water in the City is provided by
the City of Bluffdale, with water sourced from the Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District
(“District”). There are two private water systems within the city, each with about 20-30
customers and numerous residences with private wells. They have been excluded from this
plan due to being outside the city’s control and jurisdiction. Bluffdale owns and operates a
public water system serving around 5,400 connections, including 5,249 residential and 268
commercial, industrial, and institutional users with indoor and outdoor water needs‘. The
City does not own or operate any of its own drinking water sources but instead contracts with
the District to provide water through a formal Water Purchase Agreement. The agreement
establishes a fixed annual volume and unit price and is renewed every three years. The City

’ City of Bluffdale General Plan, Water Conservation Element (p. 287)

? February 10, 2026 City Council Meeting (Agenda; Minutes, pg. 6)

3 January 26, 2022 City Council Meeting (Packet, pg. 41; Minutes, pg. 10)

4 Exhibit 4. Total Service Connections by Type (JVWCD Draft Conservation Plan (Nov 2024))
pays for 100% of the contracted volume, whether it is used or not. As a contingency, the
agreement also allows the City to use up to 120% of the contract volume (i.e. 20% more) at
the same unit price. Beyond 120%, the unit price doubles. For 2025, the City is projected to
use 110% of our contracted water amount. The District has the capacity to meet the City’s
current and buildout drinking water needs.

The District will always be the primary water supplier to the City, but the City is also looking at
developing a back-up drinking water well to augment District’s supply and serve as a back up
in case of any interruptions in supply from the District due to natural disaster, equipment
failure, or acts of sabotage. The City already owns and operates a secondary water well and is
currently investigating getting the well certified to produce drinking water as well. We are
always looking to acquire additional water rights to be used for a future well. If rights can be
secured, the City may move forward with construction of another drinking water well.

Due to differences in elevation, the City’s water system is divided into four pressure zones
that are fed by their own respective water tanks. The City currently operates or has
agreements in place for three drinking water tanks, with a fourth being constructed in 2026.
This will bring the City’s water system to full build-out capacity except for the Geneva Pit
parcel in eastern Bluffdale, adjacent to I-15.

Geneva Rock has shared very preliminary development plans showing a mix of high density
residential and commercial properties similar to The Point project in Draper, but this plan is
subject to change and is not expected to be acted upon for 20-40 years (according to Geneva
Rock). The City is estimating the water needs of the current plan to be 750 Acre-ft to 1500
Acre-ft annually, but this is very broad due to their development plans being largely
undecided. When the Geneva pit develops, additional water sources, storage tanks, and
distribution systems will need to be constructed by them and dedicated to the City. Their
project will need to meet all currently adopted Water Efficient Landscaping Ordinances. The
City will also require the installation of secondary waterlines for large landscaping areas to
reduce the demand on the drinking water system.

There is a city pressurized irrigation system throughout portions of Bluffdale with water
supplied from the Welby Jacob Canal, groundwater sources, and return effluent from the
Utah Data Center (UDC). There are five other canals (WaterPro, East Jordan Canal, South
Jordan Canal, Utah Lake Distributing Canal, and Utah & Salt Lake Canal) throughout the city
that feed dozens of private irrigation systems not under the City’s control. New
developments are required to provide secondary water infrastructure and canal shares (ora

5 See Bluffdale City Code Chapter 8.50
fee in lieu) in the amount of 5.0 Acre-ft per irrigable acre to provide non-culinary water for
outdoor irrigation. The City is adding additional irrigation infrastructure during road projects
to make city irrigation available to new neighborhoods, thereby alleviating pressure on the

drinking water system. This is not expected to be a city-wide system but will be constructed
as funds allow.

ee

mv.

4 \Zone 1E

Water Demand

City of Bluffdale Drinking Water Usage
(Thousand Gallons)
1,400,000
1,200,000
1,000,000
800,000
600,000
400,000

200,000
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024

The City’s water demand has grown an average of 5% per year (about 60,000 Gallons) and we
expect this trend to continue until the City reaches full buildout, sometime around 2035.
2022 and 2023 saw significant reductions due to conservation efforts by Bluffdale residents,
but 2024 was particularly hot, which increased drinking water demand for irrigation. 2025
has also been a very warm year, and we are projecting another increase in water usage over
2024.

As required by State Code § 10-9a-403, the City met with representatives from the District on
February 24, 2025, to discuss Bluffdale’s future development and water demands. The District
has created a long-term water supply plan for the buildout of Bluffdale City. They have
available water to supply all undeveloped areas within the City boundary as long as the
adopted Water Conservation practices are followed. Any annexations into the City or large
water users may need to bring additional water supplies to the District. It is also anticipated
that the Geneva property will dedicate water rights and sources to the City when they
redevelop the existing mine. The District noted their water conservation standards have been
updated. Cities are not required to adopt the updated standards, however, a water contract
cost incentive may be available for those who do. If the District indicates it is no longer able to
provide water for future development, the City could consider requiring developers to supply
their own drinking water sources or rights.
High-Demand Users

The largest water users within the City are the Utah Data Center (UDC), which uses drinking
water for computer cooling, and users with large amounts of landscaping such as parks,
schools, churches, and HOA communities. Of the 5,400 water customers, these 40 highest
water users used 30% of all water within the city in August 2025.

This table shows the amount of connections per type and the amount of water used by each
type. Following the State Division of Water Rights reporting guidelines, apartments are listed
in the Commercial category. Parks, schools, the Utah Data Center, and all other government

facilities are included in the Institutional category.

Connection | No. of Total Water Used Percent of Water | Avg. Annual Water

Type Connections | by Connection Used by Used per Connection
Type (Gallons) Connection Type (Gallons)

Residential | 5,262 734,481,000 72.7% 110,800

Institutional | 87 243,085,000 20.8% 1,916,700

Commercial | 179 65,952,000 6.5% 9,900

Industrial 2 904,000 0% 0

Most of the total water used in the city is by residential connections because there are so

many relative to Institutional, Industrial, and Commercial. However, looking at the water use
per connection shows that Institutional connections are by far the largest water user per
connection. This is expected as this category includes parks, schools, churches, and the UDC.

This data is useful for determining where to target conservation efforts.

7000
6000
5000
4000
3000
2000
1000

Residential Water Use per Customer
(Thousand Gallons)

This graph shows the total annual water user of each Residential connection in descending
order. It shows that 95% of users are within the same amount, but there are several
extremely high users that use many times more water than is expected. These users are HOA
communities with lots of communal landscaping. Conservation efforts to remove turf grass,
install drip irrigation systems, and install WaterSense controllers for these customers can
help reduce this usage.

Even small reductions in water use per residential connection could add up to significant
water savings due to the large amount of connections. Conservation efforts for institutional
connections would need to focus on water wise landscape conversions to have a meaningful
effect on usage.

The UDC has recently expanded operations and is using more water but is within the original
Water Purchase Contract amount. This amount is included in our Water Purchase Contract
with JVWCD as well.

Water use for landscaping is heavily dependent on the weather, with fluctuations from year to
year depending on temperature and precipitation. However, the City can control the amount
of landscaping that will be installed on future projects. We have adopted Water Efficiency
standards from the District which limit the amount of high-water demand landscaping. Many
of the high water use institutional connections were constructed prior to the standards being
adopted. To reduce water demand from these existing areas, the city utilizes the Grant
Assistance Program through the District to convert turf grass at city properties to water-wise
landscaping. Any property owners within the city can take advantage of the Program.

The City requires secondary water to be provided to large landscaping areas whenever
possible to reduce demand on the city’s drinking water system, however secondary water is
not always available. In these cases, drinking water is used for irrigation.

On September 10, 2025, the City adopted the 2025 Parks, Open Space, Recreation, and Trails
Master Plan. The City currently has 92 acres of City-maintained parks and will need to develop
an additional 12 acres of parks by 2050 to maintain a Level of Service of 4.0 acres per 1,000
residents. The Plan recommends implementing non-traditional parks and park features to
maximize use of the facility but will likely also include less irrigable area.
Figure 2: Day Ranch Park utilizes a node of water-wise landscaping bordered by a walking path.

Conservation Goals

Bluffdale’s Local Goals

Table 4-2 of the existing Water Conservation Element® outlines the City’s proposed water
conservation measures as well as an implementation strategy. These goals, and the City’s
progress, are outlined in the table below:

reconstruction).

requirements with new
construction.

2021 by Ordinance
2021-06’

Conservation Implementation Plan Current Status Next Steps
Measure

Establish Adopt the JVWCD Water Complete - The City Continued
standards for Efficiency Standards and adopted the JVWCD Enforcement of
new landscape | enforce the corresponding | Water Efficiency Standards
construction (or | water-efficient landscaping | Standards on May 26,

5 Element, pg. 306
Opens
Ordinance 2021-06

Create a Water
Efficient
Landscape
Ordinance.

As acomplement to the
JVWCD Water Efficiency
Standards (which focus on
new construction), the
Water-Efficient
Landscaping Ordinance
would recommend water
users to incorporate some
sort of xeriscaping in their
landscaping to be more
water efficient.

Complete - The City
adopted Ordinance
2020-13 on July 14,
2021° and enacted a
Water Efficient
Landscaping
ordinance.

None

Discourage over

Educate residents about

Ongoing - Outreach

Continue public

usage to search

users are and where high

identify patterns of

watering resources available to occurs at City Events | education
through determine proper irrigation | and through bill campaign.
outreach amounts needed for stuffers.
campaigns. landscaping
Improve Continue to compare Ongoing - City is Continue
accuracy ofthe | customer end use with working on identifying | identifying
City’s water use | incoming JVWCD source water leaks and unmetered
reporting. flows and intra-system unmetered connections and
flows (plump stations and | connections which leaks and
PRVs) to close the mass would account for this | conducting
balance. “lost” water. repairs and
meter
installations.
Regularly Prepare a map to view Ongoing - Analyze Provide
analyze water where the highest water monthly billing to educational

materials to high

consumption

integrate data streams

metered.

for regular usage occurs. Analyzethe | high water usage. water users with
extreme water | data regularly, such as on ways to reduce
users in an annual basis (e.g., July usage. Identify if
Bluffdale. for peak water use). any leaks are
Update the database with present.
information such as usage
per customer, etc.
Meter all City Budget for and install Completed - All water | Monitor meters
connections to | meters at remaining services for City to ensure no
analyze unmetered parks and properties are leaks.

8 July 14, 2021 City Council Meeting (Packet, pg. 81; Minutes, pg. 11)

and control
water waste.

with other water use
analysis.

Install instant Install new water meters Ongoing - 90% of Finish
read metersto | that provide continuous meters have been installation of
alert Public monitoring and can alert upgraded. instant read
Works of leaks. | the city if unusual water meters.
usage is detected, which
may indicate a leak.
Encourage The City’s new instant read | Ongoing - Only about | Continue public
residents to sign | meters can also alert 1% of customers have | outreachand *
up for leak residents to unusual usage | signed up for this encourage
detection patterns indicating aleak. | service. Further public | residents to sign
notifications. Residents do need to outreach is needed. up.
create an account to use
this feature.
Encourage Install meters on all private | Ongoing Encourage
Metering of secondary water private
Private connections secondary water
Secondary users to meter
Water their water to
Connections report usage.
Reduce turf Replace areas of turf in Ongoing - The City has | Continue to
grass areas at non-recreation areas (e.g., | utilized lessturfin the | apply for
City parks. between parking lotsand | construction of new Landscape
sidewalks), especially small | parks (e.g. utilization | Conversion
areas that are difficult to of turf alternativesin | Grants to convert
irrigate efficiently, with Day Ranch Park) and | turf grass at
rock mulch or xeriscaping. | continues to install older facilities to
Refer to JVWCD Water landscaping on city water-wise
Efficiency Standards. properties compliant | landscaping.
with JVWCD
standards.
Optimize Optimize water use at Ongoing - Additional | Continue
irrigation of City | existing parks. Consider areas are being applying for
parks. new timing, soil moisture | converted each year grants to convert
sensors, fertilizers, wind to water-wise
resistant spray heads, etc. irrigation
practices.
Create an Budget each year to Ongoing - Waterline | Continue
ongoing pipe replace older pipesinthe | replacement is analyzing water
replacement distribution system. conducted yearly as pipe age and
program. budgets allow. condition and

programming

future

replacement.
Enforcement Adopt resolution making Ongoing - Continued
Action Against | un-metered water use Enforcement is Enforcement
Using Un- unlawful conducted whenever | Action as water
Metered Water un-metered users are | thefts are

identified. identified.

Regional Water Conservation Goals (Division of Water Resources)

The Utah Division of Water Resources adopted the Regional Water Conservation Goals? in
November 2019. The City of Bluffdale is located in the Salt Lake and Provo River regions.

Table 7-1: Regional M&l 2030 Water Conservation Goals and Future Goal Projections

2030 Goal 2040 Projection 2065 Projection
al Reduction | Projection | Reduction | Projection | Reduction
from 2015 (gped) from 2015 (gped) from 2015
24% 19

Bear River 232 2 28%

Green River 284 225 21% 225 21%

Lower Colorado River North 284 216 24% 205 28%
Lower Colorado River South 305 247 19% 237 22%
Provo River 222 162 27% 152 32%

Salt Lake 210 178 15% 169 19%

Sevier River 400 301 25% 302 24%

Upper Colorado River 333 251 25% 248 25%

(67) | 20%)
Weber River 250 | 200 | 184 26% 175 30%
Statewide 240 B02 SR) 188 22% 179 26%

Note M&l = municipal and industrial; gpcd = gallons per capita per day based on permanent population. Reported per capita use
includes all residential, commercial, institutional, and industrial uses averaged over the permanent population in each region.

Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District Goals

The Jordan Valley Water Conservancy District has updated the District’s water conservation
goals?’ in the 2024 Conservation Plan, including a usage goal of 178 GPCD by 2030 and 174
GPCD by 2035.

The majority of Bluffdale’s landmass is located within the Salt Lake region, however, federal
uses (UDC) within Bluffdale’s boundary are also located in the Provo River region. The Salt

° DWR Water Conservation Goals, November 2019
1° Report - Page 43
Lake region entails an 11% reduction goal while the Provo River region’s goal is higher at an
anticipated 20% reduction.

According to the JVWCD’s 2024 Annual Report, the City of Bluffdale utilized 365 more acre-
feet of water in 2024 than in 2023. Our calculations show current drinking water demand of
167 GPCD, well below the State’s 2030 goal of 187 GPCD and below the Jordan Valley Water
Conservancy District’s 2030 goal of 178 GPCD, demonstrating the City’s commitment to local
and regional efforts to conserve water.

Consultation with UDWR

Staff met with representatives from the Utah Division of Water Resources (UDWR) on
February 10, 2025 to discuss the City’s land use element and technical resources
regarding regional conservation goals, and any potential impacts it may have on the Great
Salt Lake. UDWR provided information and technical resources available for municipalities
to meet regional conservation goals.

The City discussed its existing stormwater and drainage standards and processes with
UDWR to determine any potential effects on the Great Salt Lake (GSL). The UDWR did not
indicate any concerns with the City’s LID, stormwater, or drainage standards that would
impede water flow to the GSL.

Further, representatives from UDWR have reviewed this Element and provided comments
and suggestions. Additional information has been provided herein in response to these
comments.
