CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-28

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 7.40.030, 11.150.050, 11.160.290 AND 12.80.060,
OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TO ADOPT A LIST OF STREET TREES PERMITTED WITHIN

OR ABUTTING POWER CORRIDORS AND ADDRESS TREES NEAR POWER LINES OR OTHER
UTILITIES’ CORRIDORS/EQUIPMENT

WHEREAS, the City proposes amendments to Sections 7.40.030, 11.150.050,
11.160.290 and 12.80.060, of the Bluffdale City Code to adopt a list of street trees permitted
within or abutting power corridors and address trees near power lines or other utilities’
corridors/equipment;

WHEREAS, a notice of public hearing for the proposed amendments was provided
pursuant to the Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code;

WHEREAS, on November 5, 2025, the Planning Commission conducted a public
hearing and unanimously forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposed Text
Amendment to the City Council.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

Section1. Adoption. Ordinance 2025-28 is hereby adopted, amending Sections
7.40.030, 11.150.050, 11.160.290 and 12.80.060 of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit
A.

Section2. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances,
resolutions, policies, or zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent
herewith they are hereby amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be
amended to comply with the provisions hereof, they are hereby repealed.

Section3. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
portion of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance
shall be severable.

Section4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: December 10, 2025
CITY OF BLUFFDALE

ATTEST:

CityRecorder

Voting by the City Council: Yes No Absent

Councilmember Aston a
Councilmember Austin WA
Councilmember Crockett rs
Councilmember Lord Fal
Councilmember Wilding = _/
Mayor Hall (tie only) _
EXHIBITA

7.40.030 Street Tree Species

C. Trees Not Listed Require Approval: Trees not listed must be approved by the-eity tree

beard Public Works Director, or their designee, before being planted. (Ord. 2010-03, 4-
27-2010)

7.40.50 Distance Requirements

1. Curbs And Sidewalks: No trees may be planted closer to any curb or sidewalk than the
following: small trees, two feet (2'); medium trees, three feet (3'); and large trees, four
feet (4').

7.40.060 Utilities

No street trees may be planted under or within ten (10) lateral feet of any overhead utility
wire, or over or within five (5) lateral feet of any underground water line, sewer line,
transmission line or other utility

11.150.050.A

5. Tree Diameter and Height:

Ts

For the purpose of this subsection, "caliper" means a trunk diameter measurement for
nursery grown trees taken six inches (6") above the ground up to and including four inch
(4") caliper size. If the caliper at six inches (6") above the ground exceeds four inches
(4"), the caliper shall be measured at twelve inches (12") above the ground.

Shade and deciduous trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall have a
minimum caliper of two inches (2").

Ornamental trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall have a minimum
height of six feet (6'). Ornamental trees shall be a species that has flowers, colored
foliage, or a unique growth habit or other distinguishing characteristic that adds variety
to the overall landscape plan.

Evergreen trees planted to satisfy the standards of this chapter shall have a minimum
height of eight feet (8').

. Installation, Irrigation, Maintenance, and Replacement.

Any required landscaping shall be installed, maintained, irrigated and replaced in
accordance with the following standards:

Installation: All landscaping and buffering shall be installed according to sound nursery
practices and water efficiency standards in a manner designed to encourage vigorous
growth.
c. Irrigation: Landscape areas shall be irrigated as necessary to maintain required plant
materials in good and healthy condition, in accordance with water efficiency standards.

d. Maintenance: Landowners and their successors in interest shall be jointly and severally
responsible for all of the following:

11.160.290 Landscaping

A. Each single family dwelling unit shall landscape the lot or parcel from the front of the
unit to the street. Required landscaping shall be completed within one (1) year from the
date of the certificate of occupancy.

B. Alllandscaping shall adhere to the City's adopted water efficiency and other applicable

standards.
7.40.50. Trees adjacent to other utilities shall be subject to those utilities”
requirements.

12.80.060 Landscaping And Trees

B. Street Trees:

1. Street Trees Required: All developers of residential subdivisions in the city
shall provide street trees as part of the landscaping plan in order to reduce
heat, dust, glare and the need for cooling and heating; to help clean and
oxygenate the air; to reduce road noise; to prevent erosion and promote soil
health; to mask undesirable views and enhance pleasing views; to develop
continuity among developments; and to generally enhance the appearance
of the city streets and promote a sense of civic pride and vitality. A street
tree plan, which is in accordance with city standards and chapter 7.40 of
this code, as well as the landscaping specifications of public utility
providers, and approval by the Public Works Director, or designee, shall be

submitted with the final plat application for all subdivisions. The applicant
and homeowner are responsible for ensuring the installation of the required
number, species, and caliper of street trees, per the approved street tree
plan, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for any dwelling.
Small trees
for small places

100 tree species for use
adjacent to power lines

ROCKY MOUNTAIN
Ne POWER

Let’s turn the answers on.

Table of contents

How to plant a tree.

Planting the right tree in the right place.

Pruning trees in proximity to distribution lines.

Choosing a tree — hardiness and other considerations

100 tree species to use adjacent to power lines a &

Tree maintenance

Safety matters

UTAH JUNIPER
Juniperus osteosperma

Selecting and planting trees

Environmental benefits

Index of common tree species

Planting trees for energy efficiency

Resources for more information

‘Trees beautify and improve our environment. The trees featured in this booklet were chosen to simplify the process of selecting

trees to plant near power lines and enhance the landscape. There also are tips on planting trees for energy efficiency, and

reminders for staying safe around electricity. For additional help with planting decisions, pruning questions and safety concerns,

please call toll free at 1-888-221-7070 or visit rockymountainpower.net/trees.

Author:

Randall H. Miller

Director of Vegetation Management
Rocky Mountain Power

Acknowledgements:

Dr Richard Hildreth, Education Director, Red Butte Garden and Arboretum, University of Utah (retired); Dr Michael R. Kuhns,
Cooperative Extension Forestry Specialist, Utah State University and Dennis Lueck Consulting Urban Forester and Horticulturist,

Eugene, Oregon for technical review of the manuscript. Dr Gene Milbrath, Plant Pathologist, Oregon Department of Agriculture

(retired) reviewed the species list for possible disease problems.

100 TREE SPECIES FOR USE ADJACENT TO POWER LINES i
Planting the

PAPERBARK MAPLE
Acer griseum

right tree in the right place

With care and good stewardship, trees provide both
aesthetic and economic benefits. Trees are incredibly
diverse and beautiful. Alll sizes. All colors. And, as a drive
through any neighborhood reveals, trees are familiar and

often dominant elements in landscaping plans.

Trees are engines that convert carbon dioxide into
oxygen, thereby helping contribute to efforts that offset
the production of carbon dioxide from coal-fired power
plants, automobiles and other industrial processes. They
control erosion and can dampen wind or sound. And,
trees can play a significant role in controlling energy use

if used as part of an energy conservation strategy.

Trees are of extreme interest to electric utilities for a
number of reasons. For all the good they do, it’s not
all greenery and scenery. Trees whipped by winds

or weighed down by snow will often cause power
interruptions that disrupt business or home life, as well
as compromise critical services such as hospitals and
police. They are a common cause of electric service
interruptions. Furthermore, improper or careless
pruning or falling of trees is a leading cause of serious

and fatal accidents involving contact with power lines.

But the good far outweighs the bad. That's why we've
put together important information on how to make
sure trees and power lines can peacefully coexist,

without compromising safety or reliability.

First, there are different types of high-voltage lines,
and utilities have to manage each differently based on

their importance.

100 TREE SPECIES
Planting near distribution lines

Distribution lines are those commonly running through trees (those that will be taller than 35 feet at maturity)
neighborhoods. An outage to a distribution line could ought not to be planted any closer than 50 feet from
affect hundreds or even thousands of electric customers. the center distribution line. The middle wire on the
That's why utilities and cities across the country are power pole is considered the center line. The center line
asking homeowners to plant adjacent to these power is the measuring point used to determine the distance
lines only those species of trees that will grow to 25 feet for tree-height planting zones around power lines. The
or less at maturity. Medium-statured trees (those 25 zones apply to an equal distance on both sides of the

to 35 feet tall at maturity) should be planted no closer center line. See the figure below.

than 25 feet away from the center line, and tall-growing

10 I
1
Low-growing trees 1 Plant medium trees : Plant large trees i Trees and shrubs
(under 25 feet when i (25 to 35 feet when " (over 35 feet when ' should be planted
mature) may be planted 1 mature) at least 25 feet 4 mature) atleast 50 —1 at least 10 feet away
adjacent to overhead ‘ away from overhead : feet away from over- ; from ground-mounted
power lines. power lines. head power lines. transformers.

FOR USE ADJACENT TO POWER LINES 2
Planting near transmission lines

Transmission lines are high-voltage lines that carry far more
energy than distribution lines, between 46,000 and 500,000
volts on our system. These lines are on the tallest, often
multi-poled wooden or steel structures. They are the arteries
of the electric grid, and outages on these lines could affect
many thousands of customers. There have been extreme
cases where trees contacting transmission lines have initiated
blackouts that have left millions of people without electricity.
Given the potentially dire consequences a conflict between
trees and transmission lines could have on public safety and
service reliability, trees typically must be removed from
directly below transmission lines, at least where the lines are
less than 50 feet off the ground. This area is called the “wire

zone.” Low-growing trees are allowed in a border zone that
extends from ten feet to the sides of the wires (not the center
line of the right of way) out to the right of way edge. Medium-
type trees may be planted no closer than 30 feet to the side
of wires, and tall-statured trees should be planted no closer
than 50 feet from the closest wires. The figure below shows
the areas around the power lines and towers that should be
kept clear. Where the lines are 50 to 100 feet off the ground,
low-growing trees may be planted throughout the right of
way. Medium- and tall-growing trees may grow where the line
is 100 feet in height or more. Any imminently hazardous trees
in any zone will be removed for your safety and the integrity

of the power system.

Border

FLAMELEAF SUMAC
Rhus copallina

Wire Zone

Border

This booklet contains descriptions of 100 smaller-growing
tree species that can be planted adjacent to distribution lines
or in the border zone of transmission lines. It is a guide for
people who live in Rocky Mountain Power's service area.
This diverse region includes deserts, mountain peaks, alkaline
to acid soil reactions, and minimum winter temperatures
ranging from barely freezing to minus 40°F. While not all
trees will survive in any given location, there will be any
number that could work for a particular location in our

service area.

This list is not exhaustive. However, it does give an idea of the
depth of choices available. Local arborists and nurseries can
provide other options, but if you plant your new tree around
power lines, it is important that whatever tree is chosen

for use in proximity to power lines does not grow to more
than 25 feet at maturity.

3

100 TREE SPECIES
Pruning trees in proximity to distribution lines

Pruning is an important part of providing as safe and reliable
electrical service as possible. We take pride in having a
professional tree maintenance program. In fact, we've been
recognized with the Tree Line USA
award for several years in a row by

the National Arbor Day Foundation

TREE LINE USAc

and tree-pruning practices. We hire professional arborists

for our vegetation management

to maintain a safe corridor around power lines. Many of

our arborists are certified by the International Society of
Arboriculture. They use scientifically proven pruning methods
to maintain the health of the trees.

If trees require repeated pruning or continually conflict with
power lines, often the best solution is tree removal. That's
certainly true around transmission lines. Many times, it is also
the case near distribution lines where pruning alone cannot
achieve safe clearance or where repeated pruning is too
expensive for our ratepayers.

Pruning clearances depend on tree species and growth
patterns, and the voltage of nearby power lines. However, we
typically provide at least 10 feet of clearance between trees
and distribution lines.

See illustration below for some shapes you may expect from
properly pruned trees.

While many people object to these forms, they are in the
best long-term interest of tree health, public safety and
service reliability. For more information on the right tree in
the right place and proper pruning for trees in proximity to
high-voltage lines, visit the National Arbor Day's Web site
www.arborday.org or TreesAreGood.org.

For more information on our tree maintenance program
please visit rockymountainpower.net/trees.

Common shapes of properly pruned trees

FOR USE ADJACENT TO POWER LINES
Choosing a tree — hardiness and other

considerations

Minimum winter temperatures are often the limiting factor
for survival of a tree species in a particular area. The United
States Department of Agriculture has divided the country

into “plant hardiness zones” based on average annual

minimum temperatures (a map of the Western United States
including these zones is shown below). These ratings are used

as a first step in determining whether or not a tree is suitable

for a particular site.

To determine a tree's adaptation, check the plant hardiness

map to find the zone where you live, and select species from

categories that have a hardiness rating no higher than your

zone. For example, many people live along the |-5 corridor in

Oregon, which is zone 8. These people might select a suitable

tree rated from zones two through eight. On the other hand,
people in Rexburg, Idaho, which is zone 4, may only be able

to choose a tree adapted to zones two through four.

Other factors

Certainly, many factors besides winter adaptation should

be taken into account when choosing a tree. For example;
moisture, soil, wind exposure, sunlight, snow cover and
available growing space are types of considerations important
for tree selection, That is why plant hardiness zones may

only initially screen potential species, while more site specific
factors should be used to continue the process. Lists of trees
adapted to various site specific factors begin on page 6 and
may be helpful for people selecting trees for problem areas

under power lines.

Range of annual
minimum temperatures
for each zone.

 -40--30°F
[Hy -30 --20
-20-10
10-0
J 0-10

10-20
20-30
[tq] 30 - 40

Source: USDA

100 TREE SPECIES
100 tree species to use adjacent to power lines

and lakes. Cherry-like bark. Susceptible

to leaf blight in humid areas.

Native to eastern Kansas, Oklahoma
and Texas to the eastern slope of
the Appalachians. Spectacular flower
display before leaf-out.

Native to China, Similar to
Eastern Redbud.

o eu
2 3 Ff a §
5 o . o 6 & & o £ s o c
zee 2 #
P of 8 Sse 3 fie 3 *
2 e s 3? 2  g 3S L Ps g 3
3 4] : $ SPo eo 8 ¢ Ss § g E Z 5
o € j e oO £ E £ 9 g FS § 3 e &
gO&— $ 382 22 § = 338 52 2 5
a is) ec ows £ © ¢é €& FF aa << & )
| Trident’Maple ol Acerbuergeianumn =D 2 2 48 orange full Native to China. Glossy green foliage,
ee Soy best in well-drained soil.
2. . Hombeam Maple Acer carpinifolium D 2 20 5 shade a Native to Japan.
- . i Rounded, vase-shaped form.
3 Vine Maple ' Acer cinciatum DBD 20 20 6 v shade Native to the Pacific Northwest.
ae t Adapted to moist, understory sites.
4 “Aftiur Maple” | Acer ginnala D 2 20 27 yellow orange v full to QO Native to China. Glossy green foliage,
. i red red partial small flowers, Best in well-drained soil. fj
5 Ww : : Acer glabrum D 2 15 39 orange shade Native to western mountains where
L red it is found on moist canyon sides.
6. ‘Acer ‘griseum D 2% 2% 48 red full Native to China. Beautiful,
7 : Q cinnamon-brown, curly bark.
7 Fullrri6on Maple Acer japonicum D 25 20 5 darkred yellow v full to Native to Japan. Flowers display before fi!
: : aed red partial leaf-out in spring, y
8 Japanese Maple | Acer palmatum D 20 20 58 v partial Native to Japan, Purple and
, i shade cut-leaved cultivars.
9 ‘Striped Maple. : Acer pensyvanicum D 25 2 3 shade > Native to the Northeast.
a H Understory tree.
D 23 3 2 yellow shade oO Native to the Northeast.
orange Requires cool, moist sites.
D 20 20 38 v full to oO Native to southeast Europe and
partial western Asia.
D 20 20 58 yellow Vv full Native to China. Leaves emerge
red burgundy, turn green in summer
and yellow-red in fall.
D 3B 8 29 full 0 Native to western mountains. Suitable
for naturalized stream bank settings.
D 10 10 4° white v full to Native to the Great Plains.
partial Sensitive to drought and neglect.
D 15 3-8 white yellow v full to Q Native to the eastern seaboard,
partial
DB 25 2% 4° white — orange Vv full to Native to the Northeast.
red partial High wildlife value.
+ Amelanchier D 15 15 4 white — yellow Vv full to 0 Native to the southem Rocky
{ utahensis partial Mountains and Great Basin.
i Betula occidentalis DBD 2 2 4 yellow Y vo full to Q Native to Rocky Mountain streams

Native to the Sierras and
northern coastal range in California.

g 2 33
c) Ss 2
5 2 ° s g2, 22 0 -
bo € Gos 5 3
rs § 3 3+ = 3 8 5 $3 2 5
8 = $5 ¢ € § & 8 ££ 2 § 8 2 £
3 & 2 22222 § = #358 2 5
o (s] 2 ows £ f é& &€& @€f 8 & < & 6
22 Curlleaf Mountain- Cercocarpus DBD 20 20 3 _— yellow vv full Native to the western U.S.
Mahogany ledifolius Important wildlife tree.
23 Harlequin ; Clerodendrum D 2 2 7 white v full oO Native to China. Turquoise berry with
Glorybower : tichotomum magenta sepals,
24 Kousa Dogwood ‘ Cornus kousa D 25 25 5-8 white red full to a Native to Asia, Tolerates moist sites.
t purple partial Disease free.
25 -Comeliancherry : Cornus mas D 20 20 4 yellow v full to Native to southern Europe and Asia.
Dogwood i partial O Flowers in late winter. Edible, cherry-
i like fruit in July.
26 Aimerican Filbert ‘Coryusamercona D 18 IS 4 red v full to Q Native to the East. Shrubby character.
: (females) partial
27 Purple Giant i Corylus maxima ver =D 20 20 4 _ yellow v full to Native to southeastern Europe.
Filbert " purpurea partial Q Purple leaves in spring fade to green.
: Shrubby character.
28. Cohvnon , Cotinus coggygria oO 15 15 4 yellow Y vo full @) Native to Europe. Shrubby. Useful
Smoketree i red under transmission lines.
29 Ciffrose “Cowaniamexicona =E 25 25 5S white viv v fall ©) Native to the Southwest. Good
: xeriscape species,
30. Cockspur i Crataegus crusgali OD 25 35 4 = white darkred WY YW WY vw fill Native to the East. Two-inch thorns
_ Hawthorn “ QO may be a problem for small children.
31 English Hawthorn | Crataegus laevigata «=D 20 20 4 = white vvv full Native to Europe, western Asia and _
; North Africa. |
32: Lavelle Hawthorn | Crataegus x lavaiiei D 25 25 5S white brone Y VY vo full Hybrid origin, Fruit and flowers are 4
! about %-inch in diameter. ;
33 ‘Dated Hawthom Crataegus punctata «=D 20 20 4 white scarlet viv full O Native to the East. High wildlife value. ’
34. Georgia Plume | Elliottia racemosa D 15 10 68 white full to Rare tree found in Georgia. Panicles of i
i partial white flowers in late June. ‘
35. Loquat | Eriobotrya japonica = 25 25 8 white vve ful Native to China and Japan.
; Fragrant flowers. Edible, pear-shaped E
H fruit in spring. 4
Eastern Wahoo \ Euonymus OD 2% 6 4 red pink vv shade Native to the midwestern United
: | @tropurpureus States with a stiff upright form. Bright-
i red flowers and good fall leaf color.
! Fairly well adapted to harsh conditions.
‘Westém Wahoo Euonymus D 20 20 5 _— green shade oO Native to the Cascades and western
. | occidentalis yellow coastal mountains. Fuschia fruit.
Franklinia | Franklinia DO 20 12 5-9 whitew/ orange full to Native to Georgia. Requires rich,
! alatamaha yellow — red partial acidic, well-drained soil.
| center
Singleleaf Ash ; Froxinusanomaa «= CséDsO20 10S viv full Q Native to southern Utah to central
; Arizona. Good xeriscape species.
Chinese | Hamamelis mollis D 2 2% §5 _ yellow — yellow shade Native to China. Yellow flowers in fall.
Witchhazel | Best adapted to moist, acidic, well-
H drained, organic soils.
Common Hamamelis D 2 2 3-8 = yellow yellow shade O Native to the East. Understory tree, very
Witchhazel { virginiana shade tolerant. Not many species flower
‘ in the fall after leaf drop, so witchhazel can
be useful in the landscape.
—E 23 8 § VY Vv Vv VW full 0 Native to Asia. Scarlet fruit.

7 100 TREE SPECIES

@) OVAL O ROUND o° VASE O) WEEPING () COLUMNAR
S 4
z a a 3
2 ¢ e 5 € 2, £2, .
bo & Ga 8 © “8
2 § = 3h 2 = % 8 5 ¢ 3s 2
3 E 2 Bb e 2 £ § i] BEF 2 § 5 3
g OC«= 2 S22 23 § = £258 2 F 5
a 0 ec ows ££ @é €& £ & oo a is)
43 Chinese Juniper Juniperus chinensis —E 23 ao 3 Vv Vv full Native to China. Regular Chinese
(dwarf cultivars) Juniper is too large for use under
power lines. ‘Hetzii’ and a few other
: cultivars are suitable, however.
44 One-Seed Juniper | Juniperus E 2 2 49 ¥ Vv Vv VW full Q Native to the Southwest. Good
: Monosperma xeriscape species, particularly on dry,
i 1 saline soils.
45. Utah Juniper "Juniperus E 25 20 39 vive v iil Native to the Southwest. Good
* asteosperma xeriscape species, particularly on dry,
: saline soils.
46 Eastern Juniper Juniperus virginiana =E 25 25 2 vv v full Q Native to the East. Regular species is
(dwarf cultivars) too tall for use under power lines. Be
i sure to choose low-growing cultivars
such as ‘Emerald Sentinel, ‘Hillspire,’
: ‘Glauca’ and others.
47 GoldenchainTree | Labumum x waterri D IS 10 5-7 yellow vv full 00 Hybrid origin. Seeds are poisonous.
48 Crapemyrtle | Logerstroemia indica D 25 25 6 white, yellow W full to Native to China and Korea.
i pinkor — red partial Q Classic flowering landscape tree.
; . ' purple
49 Japanese Privet H Ugustrum japonicum E 12 8 7-10 white vv Vv fullto Native to Japan and Korea.
| partial Q Fragrant flowers, fast-growing
! broadleaved evergreen.
50. GlossyPrivet | Ligustrum lucidum = E20: 6-10 white viv Vv fullto Native to Japan and China. Adaptable.
51 Artur Maackia | Maackia amurensis =D 25 25 37 white v full Native to Manchuria. Peeling, shiny-
: ! brown bark. Best adapted to moist,
| well-drained soil.
52. Loebnér Magnolia | Magnolia xloebnei D 25 30 4 white v full Hybrid origin. Fragrant, |2-petaled
: | white flowers in April. Some cultivars
: . | have pink flowers.
H
53 ‘Lily Magnolia. | Magnolia quinquepeta D 10 10 5-8 white full O Native to China. Nice, small tree.
54 Anise‘Magnolia‘:"| Magnolia saliifolia =D 25 I5 4-8 white full Japanese. Flowers are 3- to
fh | 4-inches across.
55. Star Magnolia | Magnolia stellata D 15 10 38 white full Japanese. Fragrant 12- to 19-petaled
: ! flowers. Best adapted to acidic,
: organic soil.
| Malus coronaria DBD 2 30 4 white v v full oO Native to the East. One- to 12-inch
i pink fruit.
Malus floribunda D 2 20 4 = pink — yellow v full Native to Japan. One of the best
j flowering crabs: showing floral display
i red and small fruit.
'Malushupehensis D 25 30 5 pink v full O Native to China. Large, fragrant
: changing flowers. Wide-spreading form.
4 to white
59 Sargent Crabapple! Malus sargentii D 7 [5 4. white v full Native to Japan. Masses of flowers,
t pink showy fruit. Good for use under
i transmission lines.
60° Zuini Crabapple | Malus sieboldiva: D 25 2 4 white yellow v full QO Native to Japan and Korea. Yellow-to-
TL gumi red fruits. ‘Calocarpa’ has bright red
. | Y%a-inch fruit.
, Malus spp D 2 39 white yelow ¥ v ful Many different species and cultivars.

Very useful landscape trees.

omamental planting.

Native to hillsides in the Southwest.

Native to the eastern United States.
Adapted to wetland boarders. Showy,

orange fruit.

o = 3 3
2 . 38 8 3 8
2 o o J & 2 yg ££ «
bo 5 £ @ek 6 & & Ss £ 8 5
3 g é ag 2 3 8 & a 2 € g 8
rs 5 a she 2 § 8 5 ¢ 8 8 2 5
3 € 2 3 e ¢g ¢£ 5 9 & € 3 § 5 @ €
a 6& $ Sis ¢2 § = 8352 2 E
& 8 & ows £ =F @ £€& &£ & oo a (s)
62 DwarfNorway Picea abies —E 17 2-8 v Vv full Native to Europe. Be sure only to
Spruce select dwarf cultivars.
63 Dwarf Blue Spruce! Picea pungens E—E 25 12 27 full Native to the Rockies. Utah's state
: tree. Be sure to select dwarf cultivars.
64 Bristlecone Pine Pinus aristata —E 25 25 47 v Vv full 0 Native to high elevations in the
: Southwest. Slow growing.
65 Mugo Pine : Pinus mugo E—E 15 30 27 vv full O Native to southern Europe.
66 -BitterAlmond: ! Prunus bacharia D 10 10 5 white to vv full O Native to central Asia.
i pink
67 Cherry Plum Prunus cerasifera D 20 15 3-8 white Vv full Q Native to Asia and Caucasia.
68 PurpleleafSand | Prunus * cistena D 10 7 28 pink v full Q Hybrid origin. As the name suggests,
Chery purple leaves.
() * <Cofimon. "Prunus laurocerosus D 25 30 6 white full Native to southwestern Europe and
‘Cherrylaurel ; Asia minor. Often much shorter than
; i 25 feet. Shiny green leaves.
70 'Kwangan Cherry Prunus serrulata D 25 20 5. pink — orange full O Native to Japan. Double flowers.
i bronze
7\ California : ; Ptelea crenulata D 58 15 5 white yellow full to Native to foothills in northern
vb i green partial California.
72.Common Ptelea trifoliata DBD 20 20 3-9 white yellow full to Native to the midwestern and
Hoptree ! green partial southeastern United States. Widely
: | adapted to soil conditions.
73 GambelOck —  Quercusgambeli D 25 15 39 viv full Q Native to southern Rockies.
“4 Grows in thickets.
74 Blue Japanese Oak’ Quercus glauca D 2 12 89 ful Native to China and Japan.
: a ” | Glossy leaves.
75 Bear Oak Quercus icifolia D 20 20 5 burgundy full QO Native to mid-Atlantic states.
. { Horizontal form.
“‘DwaifChinkapin | Quercus prinoides D 20 20 5 red v ful Native to the central Midwest.
‘Oak | orange Crooked, horizontal form.
77 Waveyleaf Ok | Quercus undulata «==» «10107 vv full to Native to the western United
: So | partial O States. Suitable for tough sites under
! transmission lines.
78 Catawba Rhododendron E 15 15 6 white partial O Native to the Alleghenies to Georgia.
‘Rhododendron _: catawbiense Beautiful rhododendron.
79 Patific | Rhododendron —E 238 23 7 pink V partial Native to the Cascades and coastal
‘Riiododendron i macrophyllum purple ranges. Large flowers.
5 e) Native to the Appalachians. Lowland
and riparian species.
O Native to the East. Good sumac for

Native to western mountains. Cool
exposures. Showy, orange fruit.

9

100 TREE SPECIES
tree often used as a substitute for

. =

oO - o~ oO an

z . £2 g €

2 2 ® id 2 2 £ << 2» c

2 5 5 $e8 6 § 5§ £ § = a

z & = 33 323 2 , @32 38 2

2 § 3 3h = g 5 $8 3% 2 zg &

8 £ 2 goe e € § 3 eg Se. & g 2

g OU«~E 2 882 22 $ = 335i 2 5

& 3 2 ows £ ft @# &¢& £ & 8k < & 6

85. Sitka Mountainash : Sorbus sitchensis DBD 2 15 3 white yellow Vv full to Q Native to cool areas in the coastal

' partial mountains from Alaska through British
Columbia and spots in the Cascades
: and Sierras. Orange-red fruit.
86 Korean Stewartia : Stewartia koreana DBD 2 IS 5 white — salmon partial Q Native to Korea. Multi-season interest.
! burgundy Rich, acid soil,
87. Mountain * Stewartia ovata D 1S 15 5-9 white — orange partial oO Native to the Southeast. Multi-season
* Stewartia i red interest, spring flowers, fall color and
: winter exfoliating bark.
7 :
88. Chinese Stewartia | Stewartia sinensis D 2 20 5 white red partial Q Native to China. Multi-season interest.
89 ' Japanese Snowbell i Styrax japonicus D 23 23 5 white yellow full to Native to Japan, Korea and China.
i partial Attractive tree with bell-shaped
i flowers.
90° Japanése Tree Lite! Syringa reticulata D 2 2 37 white Vv partial Q Native to China and Japan. Twelve-
i inch flowers in late spring and cherry-
: like bark in the winter.
a ‘Anglo:Japanese | Taxus x media —E 2 2 4 Qrae Y fullto O Hybrid origin. Often much lower-
Yew j bots partial growing than 20 feet.

92 ‘Littleleaf Linden | Tilia cordata D 16 10 4 pale yellow vo full to Littleleaf Linden is a large tree, and
‘Suminier Sprite’: yellow orange partial the species is inappropriate for use
(dwarf) ! under power lines. The exception is

i the cultivar ‘Summer Sprite,’ which is a
i dense, pyramidal dwarf.
93 - Sargent Weeping | Tsuga canadensis E 10 20 37 Vv fullto Native to the northeastern United
‘ Hemlock | var. sargentii partial States and southeast Canada. Make
' sure not to plant regular weeping.
| Acid soil.
94 -.Carnperdown Elm | Ulmus glabra var. D Is 35 4 yellow full O The species is Scott's Elm, and is native
. i camperdown to Europe. It should not be used
Mas i under power lines. ‘Camperdown’ is a
; : Hi low-growing cultivar that can be used. :
: b Viburnum lentogo =D 25 25 28 white purple YW YW Ww full to Native to the Midwest and East. i
\ i } partial Fruit changes from yellow to red to
Root | blue-black. a
96: Blackhaw ! Viburnum D 2 25 3 white saret VY Vv v full Native to the East. Three- to 4-inch fh.
* Viburnum i prunifolium diameter flower clusters. ;
97 Rusty Blackhaw Vibumum rudifoium D 25 25 5-9 white puple YW vw W ful O Native to the Southeast. Clusters of
_Vibumum ! white flowers and good fall color. ;
98 “SieboldVibumum | Viburnum sieboldi D 25 20 5 white vve full Q Native to Japan. Fruit ripensred then
H to black. t

99 Common | Zanthoxylum D 2 2% 3 v full O Native to the northern midwestern

Pricklyash ‘americanum United States. It is trouble free and
i adapted to a wide range of soil
; conditions. Red berries are attractive
| to wildlife.

100 | Zelkova serrata D 24 36 58 rusty red full a The species is a large-statured

American Elm. The cultivars ‘Wireless’
and ‘City Sprite’ are low growing and ff
appropriate under power lines,

FOR USE ADJACENT TO POWER LINES 10
ze
How to plant a tree

|. Dig the planting hole

Before you start, call 81! to locate all underground utilities.
Dig a planting hole at least twice the diameter of, and not
deeper than, the root ball. The loose soil will encourage
new root growth in order to establish the tree. The root

ball needs to rest on firm ground so it will not settle.

2. Plant the tree

Lift the tree by the root ball (never by the trunk), remove
its container, and place the tree into the planting hole.
Make sure the top of the root ball is slightly above ground
level. If the tree is balled and burlapped, remove any
twine or wire, and remove or fold down the burlap.
Make sure the tree is standing straight and backfill with
the original soil. Mixing the soil with fertilizer or mulch is
not recommended. As you fill the hole, gently firm the
soil around the tree to hold it in place. Water the tree

thoroughly to settle the soil and eliminate any air pockets.

3. Prune the tree only if necessary
Examine the tree for injury to branches. Prune broken
branches back to other branches or to the trunk. While
pruning, do not damage the branch collar (the swollen

area where one branch meets another).

4. Stake the tree only if necessary
Staking is usually unnecessary for balled and burlapped
and container-grown trees. If needed, stake the tree to
keep it upright until established. Drive two stakes spaced
an equal distance apart outside the planting area. Attach
a broad soft strapping material loosely to the trunk and
attach by wire or twine to the stakes. The stakes should

not be left in place for more than one year.

5. Mulch and water
Place a layer of mulch around the tree about 2- to
4-inches deep. Keep the mulch away from the trunk. The
tree should be watered at least once a week and more
often in hot weather. Watering should taper off in mid-fall

so the tree will stop growing and harden for winter.

Planting trees for energy efficiency

Trees can play a significant role in controlling energy use. Planting trees in
certain places around your home can help keep you comfortable and keep

your energy costs down. Here are some ways to plant trees and save:

+ Plant deciduous trees facing southeast and southwest for summer shade

and winter sun.

* Shrubs and small trees can be placed to shade air conditioners and heat
pumps. However, be careful not to plant too close to the unit, blocking

air flow. Keep units free of leaves and needles.

* Plant a combination of evergreen trees and shrubs on the side of your

home that blocks cold winter winds.

Il 100 TREE SPECIES
Environmental benefits

Healthy trees convert carbon dioxide into oxygen, helping
contribute to efforts to offset the production of carbon
dioxide from electricity generation, cars and industrial
processes. To help promote tree planting, preservation and
urban forestry, we support various organizations including
UtiliTree and Friends of Trees.

Tree maintenance

Trees are the most common cause of electric service
interruptions when branches fall on lines during high winds
and storms. They also can cause outages, start fires or create
other hazardous conditions if they grow too close to power
lines. Every year, Rocky Mountain Power locates, prunes

and removes potential problem trees in our service area to

provide safe and reliable electric service.

If you'd like a tree pruned or removed for landscaping
Purposes, you'll need to hire a private tree removal contractor
to perform the work. If necessary, we can disconnect a service
line for their workers’ safety.

For more information on our tree maintenance program,

please see page 4 or log on to rockymountainpower.net/trees.

Safety matters

Electricity can be
deadly; it must be used
with the utmost care
and respect. Improper
or careless tree pruning
can cause serious

or fatal accidents
around power lines.

We offer free safety

presentations, videos
and brochures to remind customers of the dangers of
electricity and to teach them how to be safe when trees and
power lines coexist. For your safety, please remember these
important tips:

* Always check for power lines before pruning trees.
If a branch is too close to a line, call us toll free at
1-888-221-7070 for help.

Before digging holes for planting trees, installing sprinkler
systems or setting fence posts, call 81! to reach your
state's free underground utility locating service 48 hours
in advance. Visit rockymountainpower.net/dig for details.
Do not assume that utility lines are buried deeper than
you are digging.

* Do not attempt to remove branches or trees that have fallen
on lines. Contact us toll free at 1-877-508-5088 for help.

* Never touch or go near a fallen power line, and do not
touch anything on which the wire is resting. If you see a
downed line, tell others to stay away and immediately call
911, or call us toll free at 1-877-508-5088.

Look up! Whenever you're working outdoors, be aware
of the location of overhead power lines. Be careful not to
lift ladders, pruning shears, irrigation pipes, pool skimmers

or other tools around power lines.

Overhead power lines are not insulated. For your safety,
treat all lines you see as energized and dangerous — stay

away from them.

Remind children to stay safe

* Don't climb or build forts in trees near power lines.

* Do not climb power poles, transmission towers or

substation fences.

* Fly kites in open areas, far away from trees and power
lines. If a kite does get caught in a power line, release
the string.

To schedule a presentation, to order free safety materials
or to see more information on electrical safety please visit

rockymountainpower.net/safety.

FOR USE ADJACENT TO POWER LINES
Index of common tree species names

COMMON NAME

Alder
Mountain Alder

Almond
Amelanchier

Ash
Singleleaf Ash

Birch
Western Water Birch

Cherry

Cliffrose

Crabapple
Common Pricklyash
Crapemyrtle

Dogwood

Corneliancherry Dogwood

Kousa Dogwood

Elm
Camperdown Elm

Euonymus
Eastern Wahoo
Western Wahoo

Filbert
American Filbert

Purple Giant Filbert

Flowering Crabapple

Japanese Flowering Crabapple

Sargent Crabapple
Tea Crabapple

Wild Sweet Crabapple
Zumi Crabapple

Franklinia

Georgia Plume

TECHNICAL NAME

Alnus tenuifolia
see Cherry

see Serviceberry

Fraxinus anomala

Betula occidentalis

see Plum

Cowania mexicana

see Flowering Crabapple
Zanthoxylum americanum

Lagerstroemia indica

Cornus mas
Cornus kousa

Ulmus glabra var. camperdown

Euonymus atropurpureus
Euonymus occidentalis

Corylus americana

Corylus maxima var. purpurea

Malus spp.

Malus floribunda

Malus sargentii

Malus hupehensis
Malus coronaria

Malus sieboldii var. zumi

Franklinia alatamaha

Elliottia racemosa

PAGE

10

f

10

COMMON NAME

Goldenchain Tree

Harlequin Glorybower

Hawthorn
Cockspur Hawthorn
Dotted Hawthorn
English Hawthorn
Lavalle Hawthorn

Hazelnut

Hemlock

Sargent Weeping Hemlock Tsuga canadensis var. sargentii

Holly
Longstalk Holly

Hoptree
California Hoptree
Common Hoptree

Juniper
Chinese Juniper
Eastern Juniper
One-Seed Juniper
Utah Juniper

Lilac
Japanese Tree Lilac

Linden

“Summer Sprite’ Littleleaf Linden

Locust
New Mexico Locust

Loquat

Maackia
Amur Maackia

Magnolia
Anise Magnolia
Lily Magnolia
Loebner Magnolia
Star Magnolia

TECHNICAL NAME

Laburnum x watereri
Clerodendrum trichotomum
Crataegus crusgalli
Crataegus punctata

Crataegus laevigata
Crataegus x lavallei

see Filbert

llex pedunculosa

Ptelea crenulata
Ptelea trifoliata

Juniperus chinensis
Juniperus virginiana
Juniperus monosperma
Juniperus osteosperma

Syringa reticulata

Tilia cordata

Robinia neomexicana

Eriobotrya japonica

Maackia amurensis

Magnolia salicifolia

Magnolia quinquepeta (liliflora)
Magnolia x loebneri

Magnolia stellata

PAGE

10

10

13

100 TREE SPECIES
COMMON NAME

Maple
Amur Maple
Eastern Mountain Maple
Fullmoon Maple
Hornbeam Maple
Japanese Maple
Paperbark Maple
Paperblow Maple
Striped Maple
Tartarian Maple
Trident Maple
Vine Maple

Western Mountain Maple

Mountainash
Green Mountainash
Sitka Mountainash
Whitebeam Mountainash

Mountain-Mahogany

Curlleaf Mountain-Mahogany

New Mexico Locust

Oak
Bear Oak
Blue Japanese Oak
Dwarf Chinkapin Oak
Gambel Oak
Waveyleaf Oak

Peach

Pine
Bristlecone Pine
Mugo Pine

Plum
Bitter Almond
Cherry Plum
Common Cherrylaurel
Kwanzan Cherry
Purpleleaf Sand Cherry

Pricklyash

Privet
Glossy Privet
Japanese Privet

Redbud
California Redbud
Chinese Redbud
Eastern Redbud

TECHNICAL NAME

Acer ginnala

Acer spicatum
Acer japonicum
Acer carpinifolium
Acer palmatum
Acer griseum

Acer truncatum
Acer pensylvanicum
Acer tataricum
Acer buergerianum
Acer circinatum
Acer glabrum

Sorbus scopulina
Sorbus sitchensis
Sorbus americana

Cercocarpus ledifolius

Robinia neomexicana

Quercus ilicifolia
Quercus glauca
Quercus prinoides
Quercus gambelii
Quercus undulata

see Cherry

Pinus aristata
Pinus mugo

Prunus bacharia
Prunus cerasifera
Prunus laurocerasus
Prunus serrulata
Prunus x cistena

Zanthoxylum americanum

Ligustrum lucidum
Ligustrum japonicum

Cercis occidentalis
Cercis chinensis
Cercis canadensis

PAGE

i, 9, 10

9,15

COMMON NAME

Rhododendron

Catawba Rhododendron

Pacific Rhododendron
Rosebay Rhododendron

Serviceberry
Allegheny Serviceberry
Saskatoon Serviceberry
Shadblow Serviceberry
Utah Serviceberry

Spruce
Dwarf Blue Spruce
Dwarf Norway Spruce

Smoketree
Common Smoketree

Snowbell
Japanese Snowbell

Stewartia
Chinese Stewartia
Korean Stewartia
Mountain Stewartia

Sumac
Flameleaf Sumac

Viburnum
Blackhaw Viburnum
Nannyberry Viburnum

Rusty Blackhaw Viburnum

Siebold Viburnum
Wahoo
Western Water Birch
Witchhazel

Chinese Witchhazel

Common Witchhazel

Yew
Anglo-Japanese Yew

Zelkova
Zelkova

TECHNICAL NAME

Rhododendron catawbiense
Rhododendron macraphyllum

Rhododendron maximum

Amelanchier laevis
Amelanchier alnifolia
Amelanchier canadensis
Amelanchier utahensis

Picea pungens
Picea abies

Cotinus coggygria

Styrax japonicus

Stewartia sinensis
Stewartia koreana
Stewartia ovata

Rhus copallina

Viburnum prunifolium
Viburnum lentago
Viburnum rudifolium
Viburnum sieboldii
see Euonymus
Betula occidentalis

Hamamelis mollis
Hamamelis virginiana

Taxus x media

Zelkova serrata

PAGE

10

10

359.

10

10

FOR USE ADJACENT TO POWER LINES

14
Resources for more information

Burns, R.M. and B.H. Honkala (eds). 1990. Silvics of North America. Agriculture Handbook 654. U.S. Department of Agriculture.
Washington, DC (downloadable, two-volume set at http://www.na.fs.fed.us/spfo/pubs/silvics_manual/table_of_contents.htm).

Dirr, M.A. 1990. Manual of Woody Landscape Plants: Their Identification, Ornamental Characteristics, Culture, Propagation and Uses.
4th ed. Stipes Publishing Company. Champaign, IL.

Gerhold, H.D, W.N. Wandell, N.C. Lacasse and R.D. Schein. 1993. Street Tree Fact Sheets. Penn State University College of
Agriculture. University Park, PA.

Hightshoe, G.L. 1988. Native Trees, Shrubs, and Vines for Urban and Rural America. Van Nostrand Reinhold. New York, NY.
Johnson, C.M. 1982. Native Trees of the Intermountain Region. Utah State University Cooperative Extension Service. Logan, UT.

Lueck, D. 1987. Trees For The Pacific Northwest: Gardens, Parks, Streets. Self Published. Eugene, OR (this book is available at the
Book Mark in Eugene, OR).

Poor, J. (ed.) 1984. Plants That Merit Attention: Vol | - Trees. Garden Club of America. Timber Press. Portland, OR.
Petrides, G.A. and O. Petrides. 1992. Peterson Field Guides, Western Trees. Houghton Mifflin Company. New York, NY.
Phillips, R. 1978. A Photographic Guide to More than 500 Trees of North America and Europe. Random House. New York, NY.

Wyman, D. 1979. Trees for American Gardens, MacMillan Publishing Company. New York, NY.

Online resources

Rockymountainpower.net/trees

National Arbor Day

www.arborday.org

International Society of Arboriculture

www. TreesAreGood.org

Friends of Trees
www.FriendsofTrees.org

GAMBEL OAK
Quercus gambelii

i)

100 TREE SPECIES
“ROCKY MOUNTAIN
G POWER

Let’s turn the answers on.

rockymountainpower.net

{0% post-consumer recycled paper
© 2014 Rocky Mountain Power 4/14

