                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE,UTAH

                                ORDINANCE NO.2025-01


AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION CHAPTER 3.10 BUSINESS LICENSE PROVISIONS OF
THE BLUFFDALE CITY CODE TO COMPLY WITH STATE LAW AND INCLUDE PROVISIONS
FOR ENCLOSED MOBILE BUSINESSES, MICRO-EDUCATION ENTITIES,AND HOME-BASED
MICROSCHOOLS.


       WHEREAS,the 2023 Utah State Legislature passed House Bill 408 which defined an
"Enclosed Mobile Business" and required cities to recognize licenses issued by other local
governments;

       WHEREAS,the 2024 Utah State Legislature passed Senate Bill 13 which defined
"Micro-Education Entities" and "Home-Based Microschools" and allowed these facilities as
permitted uses in all zones;

       WHEREAS,the City proposes an amendment to Chapter 3.10 Business License
Provisions to comply with State Law;

      WHEREAS,a notice of public hearing for the proposed amendments was provided
pursuant to the Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code;

      WHEREAS,on December 4,2024,the Planning Commission conducted a public
hearing and unanimously forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposed Text
Amendment to the City Council.

     NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE,UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Adoption. Ordinance 2025-01 is hereby adopted, amending Section
11.160.310 of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

       Section 2. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances,
resolutions, policies, or zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent
herewith they are hereby amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be
amended to comply with the provisions hereof,they are hereby repealed.

       Section 3. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid or unenforceable,such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision,and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
portion of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words ofthis Ordinance
shall be severable.
      Section 4.     Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: January 8,2025



                                                 CITYOFBLUFFDALE




                                                 V m/iJ                      -in i
                                                 M;   y{irNa|:alie C. Hall
ATTEST;                                 [seal]



                                                            CORPORATE
City Recorder




Voting by the City Council:       Yes    No      Absent


       Councilmember Aston
       Councilmember Austin
       Councilmember Crockett
       Councilmember Lord
       Councilmember Wilding
       Mayor Hall (tie only)
EXHIBITA
3.10.010 Definitions
As used in this chapter:

EMPLOYEE:The operator,owner or manager of a place of business and any persons
employed by such person in the operation of said place of business in any capacity, and
also any salesperson, agent or independent contractor engaged in the operation of the
place of business in any capacity.
ENCLOSED MOBILE BUSINESS: a business that maintains ongoing mobility and of which
the receipt of goods or services offered and point of sales occurs within an enclosed
vehicle, an enclosed trailer, or an enclosed mobile structure, or as amended in Utah Code
§11-56-102. This includes goods or services offered in the following industries:
   a) Barber:
    b) Beauty and cosmetic, including nail, evelash. and waxing:
   c) Cycling;
   d) Cell phone:
   e) Computer:
   f) Footwear:
   g) Media archive and transfer:
   h) Pet grooming:
   i) Sewing and tailoring:
   j) Small engine: and
    k) Tool.
   I) Does not include a food cart,food truck, or ice cream truck.

ENGAGING IN BUSINESS: includes, but is not limited to,the sale of tangible personal
property at retail or wholesale,the manufacturing of goods or property, and the rendering
of personal services for others for a consideration by persons engaged in any profession,
trade, craft, business, occupation or other calling, except the rendering of personal
services by an employee to his employer under any contract of personal employment.

3.10.120 Reciprocal Recognition Of Licenses
   1. No license shall be required for operation of any vehicle or equipment in this city
       when:

           1. Such vehicle is merely passing through the city; or

           2. Such vehicle is used exclusively in intercity or interstate commercerior

           3. Such vehicle is an Enclosed Mobile Business that has a current business

               license issued by another Utah municlpalitv. township, or countv.
3.80.020 Definitions
As used in this chapter:
BUSINESS VEHICLE: A business vehicle is any of the foiiowing:
i. A vehicle or trailer that is primarily used for a home occupation business.
il. A vehicle or trailerthot hoshasthathasthot that has the home occupation business
advertised on it.
iii. A vehicle or trailer located at the home occupation property for business purposes that
Is in public view from a public right-of-way for more than four hours.
A business vehicle is not:
i.A vehicle or trailer owned by the home occupation business; and
ii. Notnot sStored at the home occupation business location.
CHILD DAYCARE: A licensed daycare or preschool facility for children under the age of
twelve.
CHILD GROUP ACTIVITIES: A group of minor children engaged in an activity or instruction.
Before an
EMPLOYEE: A person engaged in the business."Employee" does not include members
living In the residence.
RESIDENT: An Individual who resides in the dwelling at a minimum of 185 days in a
calendar year and is a resident of the City for all tax purposes.
SEASONAL CHILD GROUP ACTIVITIES: A business operation that is in seasonal nature,
meaning the operation is consecutive and less than three (3) months in a calendar year. A
seasonal business may only accept minor children.

3.80.40 General Regulations


       F. Traffic Circulation and Parking Plan. For a home occupation business that
       expects 10 or more customers visiting the business on any given day,a traffic
       circulation and parking plan is required. That plan should include, without
       limitation,the streets the business plans on using (including collectors and
       local/residential streets), vehicular and pedestrian circulation, drop and loading
       areas, waiting zones,and evidence that the business operation is not going tote
       impodotraffic impede traffic movementimpodod.The plan shall be approved by
       the City Engineer.



3.80.050 Minor And Major Home Occupation Table


                       Minor
 Regulations           Home          Major Home Occupation
                       Occupation
                     Up to 6 trips
                     per day(3
Traffic^             vehicles        Up to 16 trips per day(8 vehicles coming and going)
                     coming and
                     going)
                     Off-street
Parking              parking         Off-street parking required
                     required

Employees            None            No more than 1 employee at a time

Customers/Clients^

                     Up to 3
    General          clients per     Up to 6 clients per day(max 3 at a time)
                     day
    Child Daycare
    or Group         None            Up to 12 children per day(max 8 at a time)^
    Activities

                                     Up to 16 students with at least 35 net sauare feet of
    Home-based
                     None            space per student and as licensed bv the State of
    Microschool
                                     Utah oer Utah Code 10-9a-305 and ^53G-6-201.

    Micro-                           Ud to 100 studeVits with at least 20 net square feet oer
    Education        None            student and as licensed bv the State of Utah oer Utah
    Entitv                           Code §10-9a-305 and ^53G-6-201.

    Seasonal Child
    Group            None            Up to 16 children per day(max 8 at a time)^
    Activities

Percentage of
Property Being
Used by Business

    Home             15%             25%

    Garage
                     10%             25%
    (attached)
    Accessory
                     25%             50%
    Building



Vehicles and
Trailers

     Number of        Up to 1
     Business         business
                                    Up to 2 business vehicles or trailers
     Vehicles and    vehicle or
     Trailers        trailer

                      Under
     Weight          14,000         Under 14,000 GVWR
                      GVWR

                      Under 24
     Length                         Under 24 feet long
                     feet long

Animals

     Training         None          Up to 5 animals(max 2 at a time)

     Grooming         None          Up to 5 animals(max 2 at a time)
^Traffic includes customers, clients, employees,visitors,volunteers, deliveries, etc.
^ An applicate may only choose one category of"Customers/Clients."
