                                CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH

                                 ORDINANCE NO.2025-09


                      AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 7.10.070
          RELATED TO LIABILITY PROTECTION FOR ENCROACHMENT PERMITS


       WHEREAS,the City Council has adopted Chapter 7.10.070 regarding liability
protection Issues related to encroachment permits; and

       WHEREAS,the City desires to clarify some provisions in Chapter 7.10.070; and

       WHEREAS,the City Council finds that the amendments in Exhibit A to Chapter 7 are
in the best interests of the health,safety, and welfare of the City.

NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:


       Section 1.     Adoption. Ordinance 2025-09 is hereby adopted amending Chapter
7.10.070 of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

       Section 2. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances,
resolutions, policies, orzoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent
herewith they are hereby amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be
amended to comply with the provisions hereof,they are hereby repealed.

       Sections. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid or unenforceable,such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
portion of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance
shall beseverable.


      Section 4.     Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: January 26,2025
                                                     CITY OF BLUFFDALE




                               CORPORATE I W         Maymr Natalie C. Hall
                                 SEAL I I
ATTEST:                  XK.           ^seal]
Voting by the City Council:    Yes   No   Absent


      Councllmember Aston
      Councllmember Austin     "7"
      Councllmember Crockett
      Councllmember Lord
      Councllmember Wilding
      Mayor Hall (tie only)
EXHIBIT A
7.10.070 Liability Protection

       A. Nonliability Of City For Damages:The permittee shall Indemnify, defend and hold the City
       harmless from any claims or judgments for damages or other relief against the City as a
       result of acts or omissions of the permittee or Its contractor, or arising out of or related to
       the encroachment or other operations under the permit, whether the condition giving rise to
       the claim or judgment was created In whole or in part by the permittee or Its contractor.

       B. Liability Insurance: The permittee shall maintain ptrbtte-llablllty Insurance, Including, but
       not limited to, motor vehicle general liability insurance and automotive liability Insurance,
       sufficient to cover any claims for damages for personal Injury, Including death, and for
       damage to property which may arise from the encroachment or other operations under the
       permit, whether such encroachment or other operations are by the permittee, or by any
       agent, or by anyone directly or Indirectly employed by the permittee or permittee's agents.

       Certificates of Insurance shall be filed with the City Engineer and shall be subject to
       approval for adequacy of protection. No permit shall be Issued under this chapter unless
       the applicant has submitted a-coples of Insurance policies or certificates of Insurance from
       a company authorized to Issue Insurance In the State, evidencing that the applicant has, at
       a minimum the following:! comprehensive


       LiabJiity)_coverage, that includes Ceontractual liability coverage, with a_mlnlmum limits of
       two million dollars($2,000,000.00) per occurrence for Injuries, including accidental death,
                         t;_an.d

                                                           .Jn an amount not less than three two
       million dollars($92,000,000.00)combined single limit(each accldent)on account of
       Injuries sustained in any one accident, and property damage Insurance In an amount not
       less than five hundred thousand dollars ($500,000.00)for each p.etLaccldent.

               ill. Workers Compensation aiLd_Em.pioyeisLLiablllty coverage


       C. Responsibility Of Subsequent Owners: All obligations, responsibilities and other
       requirements of the permittee, as set forth In this chapter, shall be binding on subsequent
       owners of the encroachment. Each subsequent owner shall be required to apply for and
       receive an encroachment permit modification, Includingthe new owner's Information.
