                                CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH


                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2025-13


     AN ORDINANCE AMENDING BLUFFDALE CITY CODE 1.100.030(C) RELATED TO
                 NEWSPAPER PUBLICATION OF PROCUREMENT NOTICES


      WHEREAS,the City Council has previously adopted Title 1.100 containing
procurement provisions;

      WHEREAS,the City has determined that newspaper publication is no longer
necessary or desirable for certain procurement notices;

       WHEREAS,the City has drafted amendments to the procurement policy eliminating
the requirement for newspaper publication unless is required by other applicable law.

NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:


       Section 1.     Adoption. Ordinance 2025-## is hereby adopted, amending Chapter
1.100.030(C) of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A hereto.

       Section 2.      Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances,
resolutions, policies, orzoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent
herewith they are hereby amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be
amended to comply with the provisions hereof,they are hereby repealed.

       Section 3.     Severablllty. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid or unenforceable,such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
portion of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance
shall be severable.


      Section 4.     Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: May 14,2025
                                                    CITY OF BLUFFDALE




                                                             ta ie C. Ha
ATTEST:                               [seal]

                                                             0^
                                                        a,
City Recorder                                           I OURPORATE I


                                                        kiJ.  UTkW


Voting by the City Council:     Yes    No      Absent


       Councilmember Aston
       Councilmember Austin
       Councilmember Crockett
       Councilmember Lord
       Councilmember Wilding
       Mayor Hall (tie only)
                                     EXHIBIT A


1.100.030 Source Selection and Contract Formation: General Provisions


C. Procurements Requiring Bids:
       1.      Procurements with a dollar amount over two thousand dollars ($2,000.00)
       and not more than eight thousand dollars ($8,000.00) shall require a minimum of
       three (3) documented telephone bids, e-mail bids, or internet quotes.
       2.      Procurements with a dollar amount over eight thousand dollars ($8,000.00)
       and not more than thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) shall require a minimum of
      three (3) written bids.
      3.      Any procurement in excess of thirty thousand dollars ($30,000.00) shall
      require notice on the Utah public procurement website and elsewhere if required
      bv applicable law a legal notice in q local newspaper of gonoroi publication. The
      City mav provide additional notices at its discretion. An invitation for bids shall be
      issued when a contract is to be awarded by competitive bidding. The invitation
      shall include a purchase description and all contractual terms and conditions
      applicable to the procurement. Public notice of the invitation for bids shall be
      published at loaot twice in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least
      five (5) days prior to the date set forth therein for the opening of bids.
