                                 CITY OF BLUFFDALE,UTAH

                                 ORDINANCE NO.2025-07


AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR THE GROVE AT
BRINGHRUST PROJECT INCLUDING 99 TOWNHOME UNITS,PUBLIC AND PRIVATE
STREETS,AND PRIVATELY-OWNED AND MAINTAINED AMENITIES.



WHEREAS the Bluffdale City Council established the SD-X Bringhurst Station Project Zone
through Ordinance 2018-21 on August 22,2018,and adopted the Bringhurst Station Project
Plan as part of the Ordinance;

WHEREAS the adopted Bringhurst Station Project Plan included approximately 102 acres
of land,350,000 square feet of commercial development,341 residential units,and 31.23
acres of open space;

WHEREAS Edge Homes,the Developer, proposes revisions to Bluffdale City Code Section
11.110.100 SD-X Bringhurst Station Project Zone to update the adopted Project Plan to
include 99 additional townhome units and incorporate a 5.06-acre parcel into the project;

WHEREAS a notice of public hearing for the proposed Text Amendment was provided
pursuant to the Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code;

WHEREAS on February 5,2025,the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing and
unanimously forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposed Text Amendment to
the City Council with the findings listed in the February 5,2025 Staff Report and an
additional finding that the proposal advances the City of Bluffdale's goals in supporting
housing affordability.

NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:


       Section 1.    Adoption. Ordinance 2025-07 is hereby adopted, approving a Text
Amendment of Bluffdale City Code Section 11.110.100 to adopt a revised Bringhurst Station
Project Plan and other housekeeping amendments,as shown in Exhibit A.

      Section 2.     Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: February 26,2025
                                               CiTYOFBLUFFDALE




                                                                       2_
                                               Mayor Matalie C. Hall

ATTEST:                               [seal]


                                                     CORPORATE

City Recorder




Voting by the City Council:     Yes    No      Absent


       Councilmember Aston
       Councilmember Austin
       Councilmember Crockett
       Councilmember Lord
       Councilmember Wilding
       Mayor Hail (tie only)
11.110.100 SD-X BRINGHURST STATION PROJECT ZONE

11.110.100.010 Intent And Purpose
11.110.100.020 Land Use Authority For Site Plans And Subdivisions
11.110.100.030 Conceptual Site Plan
11.110.100.040 Residential Development Standards And Design Guidelines
11.110.100.050 Commercial Development Standards And Design Guidelines


11.110.100.010 Intent And Purpose

The intent of this special development zone is to provide a land use pattern that provides
for a complementary and compatible mix of uses and a diversity of dwelling unit types. This
article allows for the establishment of necessary supporting commercial, light industrial,
and other uses consistent with a convenient and pedestrian friendly development layout. It
is the intent of this article to allow for flexibility and creativity in the arrangement of uses
while promoting efficiencies in the delivery of services.


The purpose is to develop Bringhurst Station, a mixed-use community consisting of up to
three hundred fifty thousand (350,000)square feet of commercial buildings and up to three
hundred forty one(341)four hundred forty(440) units on public and private streets, an HOA
owned and maintained swimming pool and amenities, and park and trail amenities
accessible to the public.


The Bringhurst Station Project Plan(BSPP)is also adopted as an accompanying document
to the adopted ordinance. Design guidelines, standards, and specifications in this SD-X
Zone are created with this article and shall supersede any conflicting design guidelines,
standards, and specifications in any and all applicable City ordinances. Design standards
not included in the SD-X Bringhurst Station shall be governed by this Code. Parks,
recreation and open space requirements within the Bringhurst Station Project Plan and
within this Zone shall be superseded by the Development Agreement approved by
Ordinance 2025-04.




11.110.100.020 Land Use Authority For Site Plans And Subdivisions

A site plan approval is required for all commercial and non-residential buildings, with the
exception of townhome projects, within the SD-X Bringhurst Station Zone. All applications
are subject to chapter 15 of this title and are required to be approved by the Bringhurst
Station Architectural Review Committee(BSARC)prior to review by the Land Use Authority.
City of Bluffdale staff shall be the Land Use Authority to review and approve all
commercial, non-residential (i.e., schools, churches, parks, etc.) site plans. The Planning
Commission shall be the Land Use Authority to review and approve all townhome site
plans forthe zone.

The adoption of the SD-X Bringhurst Station Special Development Zone and BSPP does not
constitute a subdivision of the Bringhurst Station property. All future subdivisions of land
within the SD-X Bringhurst Station Zone is subject to all requirements of title 12 of this
Code and the BSPP and shall be reviewed and approved by the designated Land Use
Authority as stated

11.110.100.030 Conceptual Site Plan

   1. Conceptual Site Plan: The SD-Bringhurst Station Project Plan consists of 24.7 acres
       of commercial, G2.G4 67.297 acres of residential, and approximately 31.23 acres of
       open space (total open space includes amenities within the residential and
       commercial parcels)for a total of 100.53 111.187acres.


       FIGURE 5 CONCEPTUAL SITE PLAN




                                                                                          :'X




                                                                                iA
                                                                                       0
                                                                                       o
                                                                                       lU

                                                                                       m




                                                                                   s i
                                                                                   ill.
                                                                                   o 5 5a
                                                                                   UJ X IS




   VCIMTY UAP




          \m V
                                                ^          y-^'4,- '-




2. SD-X Commercial: The commercial areas of the SD-X Bringhurst Station consist of
   24.7 acres. It is anticipated that up to three hundred fifty thousand (350,000)square
   feet of commercial buildings can be accommodated within Bringhurst Station,
   depending upon use and market demand. Potential commercial uses may include
   retail, auto dealerships, office, flex/incubator space,light industrial, and
   warehousing. Commercial uses will have direct pedestrian connections to
   community and regional trail networks, as well as good automobile access and
   visibility along Redwood Road.

3. SD-X Residential Amenities: The residential portions of Bringhurst Station will
   include HOA owned and maintained swimming pool and amenities, and park and
   trail amenities accessible to the public. The pool and clubhouse will fill the need for
   larger gatherings than might be accommodated by the homes in the community.

4. SD-X Parks, Open Space, And Trails Plan: Within a mixed-use community such as
   Bringhurst Station, active open space needs to be provided to benefit the overall
   community, provide connectivity to existing trail systems, and in the residential
   areas, to compensate for the smaller, private rear yard areas. Each lot contains
sufficient private rear yard open space for smallfamily gatherings, outdoor
entertaining and small children play areas. Active park and trail areas will provide
the opportunity for larger,family and neighborhood gatherings, picnics and informal
play areas for sports and similar recreation.


Dringhurst Station's active open space includes 31.23 M^ZQ-acres in private trails
and parks. The trails will connect with the County and/or City owned and maintained
trails adjacent to and within the project area.


Dringhurst Station proposes privately owned and maintained l iOA parks and trails of
approximately 31.23 34.7G acres, it is anticipated that there will be a public
trailhead area dedicated to the City providing access to the Jordan River Parkway
Trail and connectivity to the overall trail system throughout the development. The
developers will work with City staff and Salt Lake County for detailed designs of
public road crossings using best practices or other safety techniques for the
crossing of the Jordan River Parkway Trail. The parks and trails will be informal play
areas that include at a minimum turf, trees and an automatic irrigation system
supplied by a secondary water system. As a privately owned and maintained park,
the developer will not request reimbursement for the value of the park land and the
improvements.


Parks, recreation and open space requirements within the Dringhurst Station Project
Plan and within this Zone shall be superseded by the Development Agreement
approved by Ordinance 2025-04.



The private parks and public trails shall be included in construction drawings for all
subdivision applications and installed per adopted City standards prior to the City
Council's acceptance of the subdivision phase in which those improvements and
amenities are included.


The site contains 3.29 acres which is owned by the Utah and Gait Lake and the
Canal who will maintain the canal and its immediate surroundings. The developer
shall build a DSARC approved thematic fence along the rear lot line of the lots
adjacent to the canal prior to the City Council's acceptance of the subdivision
phase in which the fencing is located.


The total active and passive parks, trails and open space areas are approximately
                                              ■''m.



f•    '             ■'
                                                                                       o
                                                                                       o
                                                                                       LU

                                                                                       #




                                                                                   S w s
                                                                                   O uj £ b
                                                                                   cc 55 =
                                                                                   o
                                                                                   ^ o|s
                                                                                     X 13
                                                                                   ? SIS
                                                                                   ©gifi
                                                                                   S     s


                                         ib~
                         \
     VCMTY lUP




5. SD-X Bringhurst Station Implements The City Of Bluffdale Transportation Master
     Plan: The Master Plan identifies a major collector entering the property boundary
     from the south that turns westward and intersects with Redwood Road. A second
     major collector is proposed to intersect with the first and extend northward toward
     Porter Rockwell. The road structure proposed in Bringhurst Station closely
     resembles the City's Master Plan.
   FIGURE 8 TRANSPORTATION MASTER PLAN COMPLIANCE




                                                                                           -»» V»' >



         [ tr t.' i f>'> • J-    I         I-        I
         f. jSr.lMJr-,;. . :                         I
         ■<) f.'.if -:. ■ ■!'.       1 <             ■
         -     I.-                   II i;: .!.- .




6. Street Cross Sections And Private Drive: All local streets in Bringhurst Station are
   designed to be public streets constructed to the City's "standard residential A"
   street standard, generally described as a fifty five foot (55') right-of-way, twenty five
   feet (25') of asphalt, 2.5 feet concrete curb and gutters, a 7.5 foot landscaped park
   strip with street trees and a five foot (5') concrete sidewalk.
»KivAH ; 5-:iv;
7. Street Tree Plan: AIL street trees to be installed before receiving certificate of
   occupancy for units on that street.


   FIGURE 9 STREETTREE PLAN




                                                                  "':v-             r
                             ^iCv.
       V.n,< <
                 f\«ni V..     1*'
                             T. I •;./ ^
                                                                           ^flANTtJWIT>a»




    ii'3"/jw<   *ure«js

                    t-"       A          99 @ THE GRO\^
                                    NIi;\R 164J)() URINGHURST BLVI)
                                          BLL l I'DALli, UTAH
                                                                                            * LP-COLOR




   8. Parking: Residential and commercial parking shall comply with the requirement
        specified in this Code.

11.110.100.040 Residential Development Standards And Design Guidelines

   1. Conflicts: Design guidelines, standards, and specifications in this SD-X Zone shall
        supersede any conflicting design guidelines, standards, and specifications in any
        and all applicable City ordinances, including the Subdivision Ordinance, design
        guidelines and standard specifications, and the City's General Plan. Design
        elements not included in this SD-X Zone shall be governed by this Code.

   2. Neighborhood Appearance: The SD-X Zone requires specific development
        standards and regulations that apply to Bringhurst Station. The purpose Is to
        develop standards that will enhance the overall appearance of the neighborhood.

   3. Permitted, Conditional And Accessory Uses (Residential Areas):

                1. Permitted Uses: Permitted uses are indicated by a "P" in the appropriate row
                     and column.
          2. Uses Not Permitted: Any use specifically indicated by an "N" shall not be
              allowed in this zone.

          3. Subdivisions: Subdivisions pursuant to the City's Subdivision Ordinances
              and the densities approved in this SD-X Zone.


              PERMITTED,CONDITIONAL AND ACCESSORY USES(RESIDENTIAL AREAS)

Dwelling, single-family: A dwelling containing only 1 dwelling unit

Accessory dwelling units in accordance with chapter 34 of this title

Dwelling, multi-family: A dwelling containing 3 or more dwelling units

Parks: A playground or other amenities in an area or open space providing
opportunities for active or passive recreational or leisure activities either publicly or
privately owned and maintained

Public uses: A facility or use,exclusive of public utility facilities, owned or operated
exclusively by a public entity, having the purpose of serving the public health, safety or
general welfare. Public uses include such uses and facilities as libraries, community
buildings, schools,fire stations, police stations, etc.

Home occupations in accordance with BCC 3.80




  4. Residential Lot Areas, Widths And Depths:
                                        FROWT SeTBAM




                                       •a RFA« S6TEA»




                      TYPICAL TOWNHOME SETBACKS


5. Residential Setbacks:

      1. Main Building:

             1. Front yard setbacks shall be a minimum often feet(10'). Front yard
                accessed garages facing a street shall be set back a minimum of
                twenty feet(20').
              2. Interior side yard setbacks shall be a minimum of five feet(5'). Side
                 yards adjacent to a street shall be set back a minimum of ten feet
                 (10'), except that garages facing a side street shall be set back twenty
                 feet(20').

              3. Rear yards shall be set back a minimum of ten feet(10').

      2. Accessory Buildings: The side and rear yard setbacks for any permitted
          accessory building shall be a minimum of five feet(5').

      3. Projections Into Setbacks:

              1. Permitted: The following structures may be erected on or projected
                 into any required setback:

                     1. Fences and walls in conformance with all applicable City
                         ordinances and resolutions.

                     2. Appropriate landscaping.

                     3. Utility service boxes or similar structures.

              2. Setback Areas: The following structures may be erected on or
                  projected into any required front or rear setback not more than four
                 feet(4'), and into a side setback not more than two feet(2'):

                     1. Cornices, eaves, sills, buttresses, bay windows or other similar
                         architectural features.

                     2. Awnings, decks and planter boxes.

6. Minimum Residential Building Separations: The minimum building separation
   between a main and accessory building on the same lot shall be ten feet(10').

7. Minimum And Maximum Residential Building Heights: A main building or structure
   shall not exceed thirty five feet(35') in height, nor be lower than ten feet(10')in
   height, rear detached garages shall not exceed fifteen feet(15') and other accessory
   buildings such as sheds or carports shall not exceed ten feet(10') in height.

8. Minimum Standards For Residential Parking: Each dwelling unit shall have a
   minimum of two(2)spaces located within a fully enclosed garage.

9. Public Utility Easements In Residential Developments: Public utility easements
   need to be a minimum of five feet(5') in width along the street frontage of the lot.
   PUEs will not be required in the sideyard or rear of lots.
10. Minimum Standards For Residential Architectural Design, Streetscape, Fencing And
   Landscaping:

      1. Bringhurst Station Architectural Review Committee(BSARC):The CC&Rs
         shall be recorded with any plat and shall form the Bringhurst Station
         Architectural Review Committee(BSARC)and give it the power and
         responsibility to review all building construction within the residential
         portions of the development.The BSARC shall be comprised of a minimum
         of two(2)individuals who have experience in either design or construction.
         The minimum responsibilities of the BSARC shall be the following:

             1. Prior to submittal to the City of Bluffdale for building permit review,
                  the BSARC shall approve all dwelling unit types including the variety of
                  elevations, materials, color schemes,landscaping and accessory
                  buildings.

             2. The BSARC shall provide the City of Bluffdale with an approved set of
                  plans and a letter of approval that shall be included with the submittal
                  package for building permit review.

             3. The BSARC shall approve all conceptual and final landscape plans for
                  the design and construction of the HOA park and the trail.

             4. Prior to submittal to the City of Bluffdale for building permit review,
                  the BSARC shall approve all requests for fencing construction to
                  ensure that the Bringhurst Station thematic fencing is to be
                  constructed.

      2. Residential Architectural Design Guidelines: Consistent with the
          requirements of the SD-XZone, Bringhurst Station requires enhanced
          architectural elements and features that will result in homes that are
          thematic and include enhancements to visible side and rear facades from
          either public streets or the private park or trail. The following architectural
          design guidelines shall dictate the design and construction of homes within
          Bringhurst Station:

             1. Stucco, masonry,fiber cement composite siding and/or similar
                  construction products shall be used on all exterior walls. No vinyl
                  siding shall be permitted.

             2. A minimum of two(2)elevations shall be drawn for each dwelling unit
                  type. Differences between elevations may include rooflines, use of
   exterior materials, color schemes, use or size of porches, window
   location, size, shape or treatments and similar features that vary the
   appearance of the elevation.

3. Where the same dwelling unit type is to be constructed adjacent to or
   directly across the street, a different elevation shall be used including
   a different roofline, exterior materials and color schemes.

4. A front facade shall include either masonry or fiber cement composite
   siding that covers a minimum of thirty percent(30%)of the facade not
   including the area of the garage door.

5. Windows and doors on the front facade shall be trimmed with
   composite, wood or a wood-like product, or a stucco trim that is a
   minimum six-four inches(64")in width.

6. Covered porches shall be supported by a minimum six inch (6") wood
   or wood-like, or stucco post that extends from a minimum thirty six
   inches(36")and twelve inches(12") width base covered by the same
   masonry or fiber cement composite siding used on the front facade.

7. Where masonry is used on the front exterior at corners, it shall be
   wrapped around to the side exterior a minimum of twenty four twelve
   inches(2412").

8. Rooflines shall not be flat or at a low angle, generally described as
   less than a six to twelve (6:12) pitch. Modern style homes may have a
   roof pitch less than four to twelve (4:12).

9. Front facing garages shall be placed in line with the front elevation, be
   extended no more than five feet(5') in front of the front elevation or be
   recessed behind the front elevation. It is encouraged that some of the
   homes extend the living space or a covered porch to the ten foot(10')
   front yard setback line or within five feet(5') of the front setback line.
   Front Elevation is defined by front extent of foundation (including
   porch column foundation.

10. Rear or side end facades that are visible to a street,the private park or
   trail shall include additional treatments such as, but not limited to,
   the addition of the front facade wainscoting down the visible side
   facade, additional fiber cement siding, additional windows, pop outs
          and window or door composite or wood or wood-like trims a minimum
          of six four inches(64")in width.

3. Streetscape Design, Street Trees And Front Yard Landscaping: Bringhurst
   Station streets will be public streets designed to the City's "standard
   residential A" street standard. The standard provides a 7.5-foot park strip and
   a five foot (5') concrete sidewalk between the back of curb and the right-of-
   way/property line. To create a more cohesive neighborhood appearance,
   similar landscaping of the parkways shall be performed by the homebuilder.
   Turf shall be planted in the parkways. Where possible, drought tolerant turf
   species may be used to reduce water usage.


   Street trees shall be planted and maintained in compliance with City
   standards. Trees shall be installed in accordance with subsection 11"11J"
   BGChapter 7.40 Trees. Section 11.150.050 of this Title, and figure 9 of this
   article with each subdivision plat or site plan application. These trees shall
   be installed by the homebuilder according to City guidelines prior to the
   issuance of a certificate of occupancy and shall be maintained by the
   adjacent property owner. The adjacent home owner or HOA shall be
   responsible for maintaining the park strip and removing snow from the
   sidewalk along the public streets.


   The homebuilder shall landscape the front yards, side yards, and park strips
   of all lots, as well as the rearyardsof thetownhome lots based upon a
   conceptual landscape plan approved by the BSARC.The landscaping shall
   include an automatic irrigation system supplied by the culinary water
   system. The landscaping shall include turf, shrubs and ground covers.


   The front yard,side yard, and park strip landscaping shall be installed prior to
   issuance of a certificate of occupancy except that between the months of
   October and April, the homebuilder may delay the installation until the end
   of the following month of June if a bond is posted pursuant to the City's
   adopted fee schedule.

4. Fencing: The consistent and uniform installation of thematic fencing will
   contribute to the Bringhurst Station sense of neighborhood. The homebuilder
   shall install the BSARC approved thematic fencing along the length of the
   street side lot line from a distance no more than five feet(5')from the
   building corner and the lot rear corner. The thematic fence shall be a vinyl
             privacy fence throughout the entire development. It shall be the
             responsibility of the Bringhurst Station HOAto ensure all fencing continues
             to meet the requirements of the BSARC.


             Figure 10 of this subsection shows the location of required fencing that will
             be installed by the homebuilder, except that the developer will install the
             fencing along the rear lot line of the lots adjacent to the canal prior to
             certificate of occupancy issued for those lots. The developer shall install the
             required thematic fencing prior to the City Council's acceptance of the
             subdivision phase in which the fencing is located. The homeowner may
             choose to install additional thematic fencing along other lot lines not noted
             on figure 10 of this subsection.


             FIGURE 10 FENCING PLAN




11.110.100.050 Commercial Development Standards And Design Guidelines

   1. Permitted Uses: Permitted uses are indicated by a "P" in the appropriate row and
      column.

   2. Uses Not Permitted: Any use specifically indicated by an "N" shall not be allowed in
      this zone.
  3. Subdivisions: Subdivisions pursuant to the City's subdivision ordinances and
       approved in this SD-XZone.

  4. Use Table:


       PERMITTED,CONDITIONAL AND ACCESSORY USES
       (COMMERCIAL AREAS AAND B)

                                                                                            B


Automobile and recreational vehicle sales: An establishment engaged in the retail
sale or wholesale from the premises of motorized vehicles, along with incidental
service or maintenance.Typical uses include new and used automobile and truck
sales, boat sales, recreational vehicle sales, and motorcycle sales.

Automotive service: An establishment providing motor vehicle repair or
maintenance services within completely enclosed buildings, including paint and
body shops or other general vehicle repair services which have associated storage,      N
overnight or otherwise, of vehicles, equipment,supplies, parts, or inventory in an
enclosed and screened area outside of the building.

Bank or financial institution: An organization involved in deposit banking,finance,
investment, mortgages,trusts, and the like, but excluding uses specifically
classified in another use herein. Typical uses include commercial banks, credit
unions,finance or mortgage companies,and savings institutions.

Business services: An establishment completely operating within a building,
providing other businesses with various services including maintenance, repair and
service,testing, rental, etc.; also includes business equipment repair services
(except vehicle repair), computer related services(rental, repair), equipment rental
businesses within buildings,film processing and photo finishing,janitorial and
window cleaning services, mailbox services and similar uses.

Car wash: An establishment primarily engaged in cleaning or detailing motor
vehicles, including cars, passenger trucks, recreational vehicles, whether self-
service, automatic or by hand.This use applies only to car washes that are the
primary use of land. A car wash associated with a gas station is not included in this
use.
Commercial vehicle and equipment rental or sale: An establishment engaged in the
retail sale, wholesale, or rental from the premises of motorized commercial
vehicles,trailers, and equipment, along with incidental service or maintenance.
Typical uses include new or used commercial vehicle and truck sales, moving
trailer and truck rental, construction equipment rental yards and farm equipment
and machinery sales and rental.

Construction sales and service: An establishment engaged in the retail or
wholesale sale of materials and services used in the construction of buildings or
other structures. Typical uses include lumberyards,lawn and garden supply stores,
construction equipment sales and rental, electrical, plumbing, air conditioning and
heating supply stores, swimming pool sales, and other home improvement                 N

products. Areas for the display of goods may be outside a building as an accessory
use to the primary business with acceptable screening and fencing in Area B only, if
the uses listed herein include a retail component,they shall be permitted in both
Area A and Area B.


Convenience store: An establishment, not exceeding 5,000 square feet of gross
floor area, serving a limited market area and engaged in the retail sale or rental,
from the premises, of food, beverages and other frequently or recurrently needed
items for household use, excluding gasoline sales.

Data center: A facility used to house computer systems and associated
                                                                                       N
components,such as telecommunications and storage systems.

Gas station: An establishment engaged in the retail sales of gasoline and petroleum
products. This use includes gasoline sales conducted as part of a convenience
store. A gas station may also include automatic and self-serve car washes which
are accessory to the primary use.

Hotel: An establishment with or withoutfixed cooking facilities in individual rooms
offering transient lodging accommodations to the general public, and which may
provide additional services such as restaurants and meeting rooms.

Laundry services: An establishment providing household laundry and dry-cleaning
services with customer drop off and pick up where laundering or cleaning is done
on the site. This use also includes an establishment providing home type washing.
drying, and/or ironing machines for hire or rent to be used by customers on the
premises, such as a laundromat.

Liquor store: A retail outlet for the sale of packaged liquor located on premises
owned or leased by the State of Utah.

Manufacturing, general: An establishment engaged in the manufacture of finished
products or parts, predominantly from previously prepared materials, including
processing,fabrication, assembly,treatment and packaging, and incidental
                                                                                        N
storage, sales and/or distribution of such products, but excluding basic industrial
processing and manufacturing activities. These uses shall not have noise, odor,
vibration or other discernible nuisances outside a building.

Medical service: An establishment providing therapeutic, preventive, or corrective
personal treatment services on an outpatient basis by physicians, dentists, and
other practitioners of the medical or healing arts, as well as the provision of
medical testing and analysis services.

Movie theater: A facility which includes one or more theaters for the presentation of
motion pictures. May also include accessory retail uses and concession

Museum:A building or room in which objects of historical, scientific, artistic, or
cultural interest are stored and exhibited.


Office, general: A building, room or department where executive, management,
administrative or professional services are provided, except medical services, and
excluding the sale of merchandise, except as incidental to a principal use. Typical
uses include real estate brokers, insurance agencies, credit reporting agencies,
property management firms, investment firms, employment agencies,travel
agencies, advertising agencies,secretarial services, data processing, call centers;
Post Offices and express mail offices as an accessory or complementary use to a
professional and business office development, but excluding major mail
processing and distribution; offices for utility bill collection; professional or
consulting services in the fields of law, architecture, design, engineering,
accounting and similar professions; interior decorating consulting services; and
business offices of private companies, utility companies, public agencies,trade
associations, unions and nonprofit organizations.
Parks: A playground or other amenities in an area or open space providing
opportunities for active or passive recreational or leisure activities either publicly or
privately owned and maintained.

Personal instruction service: An establishment primarily engaged in the provision of
informational, instructional, personal improvement and similar services of a
nonprofessional nature. Typical uses include art and music schools, driving and
computer instruction, gymnastic and dance studios, handicraft or hobby
instruction, health and fitness studios, massage therapist instruction, martial arts
training, and swimming clubs.

Personal service establishment: An establishment providing nonmedical services
to individuals as a primary use. Examples of these uses include barbershops,
beauty salons, day/health spa, hair salons, nail salons,shoe repair shops,tanning
salons,tailors and similar businesses not including tattoo establishments.

Preschool/daycare center: An establishment, other than an occupied dwelling,
operated by a person or organization qualified by the State, which provides daycare, P N
protection or supervision and/or preschool instruction.

Printing shops:The production of books, magazines, newspapers and other printed
                                                                                            N
matter, as well as publishing, or graphic arts design, engraving or photoengraving.

Public uses: A facility or use, exclusive of public utility facilities, owned or operated
exclusively by a public entity, having the purpose of serving the public health, safety
or general welfare. Public uses include such uses and facilities as parks, libraries,
community buildings, schools,fire stations, police stations, etc.

Recreation and entertainment(indoor): A commercial recreational land use
conducted entirely within a building, including arcade, arena, athletic and health
clubs, bowling alley, community center, gymnasium, pooler billiard hall, skating
rink, swimming pool,tennis court or similar indoor facility. Related indoor uses may
include a retail area for the sale or rental of equipment and a snack bar.

Recreation and entertainment(outdoor): An area or facility that offers
entertainment or recreation outside. This use may include, but not be limited to, a
golf driving range, baseball batting cages, riding arenas,tennis facilities, water
sports facilities, cycling facilities, and miniature golf, and may include, as
accessory uses, associated eating and drinking areas, retail sales areas and staff
offices.


Repair service: An establishment primarily engaged in providing repair services to
individuals and households rather than firms, but excluding automotive, vehicular
and equipment services uses. Typical uses include appliance repair shops,
computer and other electronic equipment repair,furniture repair and upholstery
shops, watch or jewelry repair shops, and musical instrument repair shops.

Research and development laboratories: An establishment engaged in the
development of new products or services using technical, medical, or scientific
innovations.


Restaurant: A facility where food and drinks are prepared and served to the public
for on-site consumption (dine in), takeout, or delivery service. A restaurant may
include a drive-through.

Retail, general: An establishment that rents or sells goods to the public, but
excluding uses specifically classified in another use herein.Typical uses include
apparel stores, antique shops, art and hobby supply stores, bicycle shops,
bookstores, clothing rental stores, department stores, discount stores, drugstores,
electronic appliance stores,florists,food stores,furniture and appliance stores, gift
and novelty shops,glass and mirror shops, hardware stores, home improvement
centers,jewelry stores, medical supply stores, music stores, optical retail sales,
paint stores, pet stores, photocopying and blueprinting shops, photography supply
stores, etc. If the uses listed under the Construction Sales and Service category
have a retail component,they shall be permitted uses in both Area A and Area B

Trade or technical schools: An establishment,for profit or not, conducting a course
of instruction, training, or retraining to prepare individuals to follow an occupation
or trade offering regularly scheduled instruction in technical, commercial or trade
skills, such as, but not limited to, business, real estate, building and construction
trades, electronics, computer programming and technology, automotive and
aircraft mechanics and technology, and similar types of instruction.

Veterinary service: An establishment providing medical care and treatment for
animals, which may include accessory grooming or boarding services.
Wholesale and warehousing: An establishment that is primarily engaged in the
buying and selling of goods in large quantities and includes the storage and sale of
goods to customers or other businesses for resale, as well as activities involving
significant movement and storage of products or equipment.

  5. Figure:


      COMMERCIAL SUB-DISTRICTS




  6. Commercial Lot Area:

          1. The minimum commercial lot area requirement is one-half(1/2) acre
             (condominiumized commercial buildings exemptfrom 1/2 acre minimum).

  7. Commercial Lot Width:

          1. The minimum commercial lot width requirement shall be one hundred fifty
             feet(150')for all of the area located in any required front setback area
             (condominiumized commercial buildings exempt from 150 foot lot width
               minimum).
8. Commercial Lot Frontage:

      1. All commercial parcels shall abut a public street or approved private street or
          right-of-way for at least one hundred fifty feet(150') or have acceptable
          access to a public street through cross access or private right-of-way
          provided through an adjacent lot or parcel.

9. Commercial Setback Requirements:

      1. The following minimum setback requirements shall apply in the zone. Each
          setback is measured from the property line of the lot or parcel.

              1. Setbacks For Lots Or Parcels Abutting A Public Street:

                     1. Front Setback: Each lot or parcel abutting a public street shall
                           have a minimum front setback of ten feet(10').

                     2. Side And Rear Setback: Each lot or parcel abutting a public
                           street shall have a minimum side and rear setback for
                           buildings often feet(10'). A total reduction of the rear and side
                           setbacks of up to ten feet(10') may be approved if doing so
                           does not violate the adopted Building and Fire Codes.

                     3. Interior Side Setback: No side setback shall be required along
                           the interior lot lines, except as may be required by the City
                           Building Codes and where the side lot line is contiguous to a
                           residential area as shown on the BSPP, in which case side yard
                           setback requirements of the contiguous residential zone shall
                           apply.

                     4. Rear Yard Setback: No rear yard setback shall be required,
                           except as may be required by the City Building Codes or where
                           the rear lot line is contiguous to a residential area, in which
                           case the rear yard setback requirements of the contiguous
                           residential area shall apply.

      2. Setbacks for lots or parcels abutting a private street or right-of-way shall be
          five feet(5').

      3. Setbacks for parking lots abutting a street right-of-way shall be ten feet(10').

10. Projections Into Setbacks:
      1. Permitted: The following structures may be erected on or projected into any
          required setback:

              1. Fences and walls in conformance with all applicable City ordinances
                 and resolutions.

              2. Appropriate landscaping.

              3. Necessary appurtenances for utility service.

      2. Setback Areas:The following structures may be erected on or projected into
          any required front or rear setback not more than four feet(4'), and into a side
          setback not more than two feet (2'):

              1. Cornices, eaves,sills, buttresses or other similar architectural
                 features.

              2. Awnings,decks and planter boxes.

11.Commercial Building Height Requirements: A primary building or structure may not
   exceed sixty five feet(65')in height, nor be lower than ten feet(10') in height. A hotel
   may not exceed one hundred ten feet(110')in height. All buildings and structures
   must adhere to adopted Building and Fire Codes.

12. Distance Between Commercial Buildings: The distance between any building or
   structure and any other building or structure shall satisfy the Building and Fire
   Codes in place at the time of site plan approval.

13.Commercial Lot Coverage:The sum total of all buildings, structures and parking on
   any parcel or project in the zone shall not exceed eighty five percent(85%)of the
   total area of the parcel or project.

14.Commercial Parking, Loading And Access:

      1. Parking: Total required off street parking spaces shall be four(4)stalls per
          one thousand (1,000) useable square feet for office and retail uses,and one
          stall per ten thousand (10,000)square feet of warehouse.The spaces shall
          be hard surfaced with asphalt or concrete and be accessed from a public
          road by a hard surfaced, composed of asphalt or concrete, drive approach.

      2. Loading And Unloading Area: Loading and unloading shall not occur on a
          public street. Loading docks and service areas, including non-retail gas
          pumps,shall be eighty percent(80%)screened from traffic with mounding
         and/or 4-season vegetative screening. Acceptable screening may also
         include decorative concrete walls.

15.Commercial Project Plan Approval:

      1. Design guidelines, standards, and specifications in this SD-X Bringhurst
         Station Zone shall supersede any conflicting design guidelines, standards,
         and specifications in any and all applicable City ordinances, design
         guidelines and standard specifications, and the City General Plan. Design
         elements not included in this SD-X Mixed Use Zone shall be governed by this
         Code.

      2. Projects in the SD-X Zone will be reviewed and approved by BSARC prior to
         submitting a Site Plan Application for review and approval by the City staff.

16. Minimum Standards For Commercial Architectural Design:

      1. Commercial Architectural Design Guidelines: Consistent with the
         requirements of the SD-X Bringhurst Station Zone requires enhanced
         architectural elements and features that will result in commercial buildings
         that are thematic and include enhancements to visible side and rear facades
         from either public streets or the private park or trail. The following
         architectural design guidelines shall dictate the design and construction of
         all non-residential buildings within Bringhurst Station.

             1. Building Material:

                    1. At least eighty percent(80%)of a building's facade along all
                        streets shall be finished in one of the following materials:

                           1. Masonry(brick, stone,stucco utilizing a 3-step process,
                               cast stone, glass, or glass block).

                           2. Split face concrete block or pre-cast or poured in place
                               concrete.


                           3. Wood or architectural metal panel, batt and board
                               siding(no vinyl), or lap siding(no vinyl).

                    2. No more than twenty percent(20%)of a building's facade
                        along all streets shall use other accent materials: split-face
                        concrete block,tile, EIFS or pre-cast concrete panels.

             2. Building Massing:
                    1. Building masses shall avoid long flat-plane expanses and
                        incorporate horizontal relief no less than two feet(2') in depth.
                        The maximum length of a single facade expanse is one
                        hundred feet(100').

                    2. Building masses shall be greater at areas with more pedestrian
                        activity, such as street corners and building entrances.

                    3. Single story building masses that exceed twenty feet(20') in
                        height shall incorporate an overhead structure element above
                        building entrances to provide pedestrian scale interest.

                    4. Load-bearing materials should touch the ground.

             3. Arcades And Storefront Structural Bays:

                    1. Storefront structural bays shall be orchestrated to appear as
                        phased construction over a long period of time.

                    2. Substantial structural bays shall be composed of vertically
                        oriented piers and horizontal spandrels with intervening
                        storefront windows.

                    3. Arcades are encouraged as semi-public spaces between the
                        street and storefront, sheltering pedestrians from the
                        elements.

                    4. Multiple storefronts with separate storefront windows can be
                        massed together within a single facade expanse with the same
                        architectural style.

             4. Roof Form:

                    1. Predominant roof shapes should be flat or slightly pitched,
                        with limited use of gable or canted roof elements to provide
                        breaks in facade type and/or add visual interest.

                    2. Roof pitches should be typically low(1:12 - 4:12).

                    3. Moderate overhangs up to three feet(3')should be supported
                        by substantial dimensional steel braces that define the top of
                        the building.

17.Other Commercial Requirements:The following requirements are in addition to the
   requirements found in this title or any other applicable resolution or ordinance:
      1. Landscaping: Individual lots or parcels located In this SD-X development are
         not subject to a minimum landscaping requirement so long as fifteen
         percent(15%)of the total developed project area is preserved as open
         space.

      2. Screening Of Outdoor Storage Or Display Areas And Mechanical Equipment:
         All outdoor storage or display areas and mechanical equipment and other
         appurtenances,including electrical boxes, gas meters and other utility
         facilities shall be located or screened so as not to be visible from streets,
         pedestrian areas and adjacent developments. Screens shall be aesthetically
         incorporated into the design of the building whether located on the ground or
         on the roof. Acceptable screening includes six foot(6') decorative privacy
         fences, mounding and/or 4-season vegetative screening. Screened areas
         must provide a minimum of eighty percent(80%)visual concealment year-
         round. Rooftop mechanical equipment and other appurtenances shall be
         installed so as not to be visible from any point at or below the roof level of the
         subject buildings. All mechanical equipment and utilities shall in all cases be
         either enclosed by outer building walls or parapets or grouped and screened
         in a manner architecturally compatible with the buildings.

      3. Trash, Junk, Storage And Other Debris: No trash, used materials, unsightly
         storage of any kind, or non-licensed or abandoned vehicles shall be stored in
         an open area. All such materials shall be enclosed in a building or, if deemed
         appropriate by the City, by a sight obscuring fence.

IB.Signage:

      1. Signs: All special district project plans shall propose a consistent and unified
         signage scheme.

      2. Design And Location: Signage design and location shall be an important
         component of SD-X Bringhurst Station. All signs shall be reviewed and
         approved by the Bringhurst Station Architectural Review Committee.Signage
         shall comply with the following standards:

              1. Monument Signs: One monument sign shall be allowed per building.
                  Each monument sign shall have a uniform, architecturally compatible
                  design consistent with the Bringhurst Station commercial special
                  district design theme with a sign area not larger than ninety eight(98)
                 square feet. Locations shall be approved by the City to ensure
                  clearance of sight distance requirements at entries and adequate
   separation for readability. One sign per building is allowed along each
   main access road on the north and south of the buildings. Monument
   signs shall not exceed ten feet(10') in height and fourteen feet(14') in
   width.

2. Tower Signs: In addition to monument signs allowed per building, one
   tower sign shall be allowed at the entrance to the office park. Signs
   shall not exceed nine feet(9') in width and thirteen feet(13')in height
   and shall not exceed one hundred and seventeen(117)square feet in
   sign area. Tower signs shall be at least fifteen feet(15')from the public
   right-of-way and shall meet the sight distance requirements.

3. Wall Signage: Wall signage may be installed by individual
   businesses/buildings on freestanding and in-line single-Zmultitenant
   buildings.

4. Wall Signage Types: Types of wall signage shall be limited to the
   following:

       1. Individually cut letters or signs from plastic or aluminum;

       2. Painted directly on the exterior of the building;

       3. Individual pan channel letters mounted on a raceway;

       4. Pan channel letters may be illuminated;

       5. Decorative sign cabinets. Where sign cabinets are utilized they
            shall be built into the architectural fascia.

5. Location: Signage shall be allowed on all sides of the building that are
   visible from a street or drive aisle.

6. More Than One Entry: Where a tenant or building occupant has more
   than one entry, multiple signs will be allowed to define different
   divisions of the company.

7. Size: For every one linear foot of building length per tenant,two(2)
   square feet of wall signage shall be allowed.

8. Wayfinding Signs: Wayfinding signs shall be allowed in the project.
   Height shall not exceed eight feet(8'). The area of the sign shall not
   exceed one hundred (100)square feet.
9. Suspended, Blade Type Projecting Signs: Suspended or blade type
   projecting signs may be provided along pedestrian walkways and shall
   maintain a minimum clearance of seven feet(7') above the pavement.

10. Flags, Banners: if flags or banners are placed on light poles,they shall
   be at least seven feet(7') above the pavement.
