                               CITY OF BLUFFDALE,UTAH

                                ORDINANCE NO.2025-02


AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 11.220.080 OF THE BLUFFDALE CITY TEMPORARY
SIGN CODE


      WHEREAS,the City proposes an amendmentto Chapter 11.220 Temporary
Signage, enacting Section 11.220.080 to amend the temporary sign code;

      WHEREAS,a notice of public hearing for the proposed amendments was provided
pursuant to the Biuffdaie City Code and Utah State Code;

       WHEREAS,on December 4,2024,the Planning Commission conducted a public
hearing and unanimously forwarded a positive recommendation ofthe proposed
amendments to the City Council.

       WHEREAS,the City Council finds it is in the best interests of the health,safety, and
welfare of the residents and citizens to adopt the proposed amendments.

     NOW,THEREFORE,BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF
BLUFFDALE,UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

       Section 1.     Adoption. Ordinance 2025-02 is hereby adopted, enacting Section
11.220.080 of the Biuffdaie City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

       Section 2. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances,
resolutions, policies, or zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent
herewith they are hereby amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be
amended to comply with the provisions hereof,they are hereby repealed.

       Section 3. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid or unenforceable,such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
portion of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance
shall be severable.


       Section 4.     Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: January 8,2025
                                               CITYOFBLUFFDALE




                                                ayt ^talieC. Hall

ATTEST:                               [seal]
                                                        BLUF-y?


                                                  CORPOR'^"^^
City Recorder




Voting by the City Council:     Yes   No       Absent


       Councilmember Aston
       Counciimember Austin
       Councilmember Crockett
       Counciimember Lord
       Councilmember Wilding
       Mayor Hall (tie only)
                                          EXHIBIT A

11.220.080 Temporary Signage


Temporary signage outlined In this section are allowed subject to the filing of an application for
and issuance of a temporary signage permit, unless expressly exempted in this section.
    A. General Requirements: The following shall apply to all temporary signage as outlined
        herein:
            1. Such signs shall not be illuminated unless by way of permanently installed indirect
               lighting sources.
            2. Such signs shall not be placed in any public or private right of way, park strips,
                  medians,or roundabouts.
           3. Such signs shall not be placed so as to create a traffic hazard in a clear view area.
           4. Such signs shall require application for an issuance of a temporary sign permit prior
                to installing or erecting a temporary sign, unless expressly exempted in this section.
           5. All temporary signage must be set back beyond the farthest most part of the
                permanent ground mounted signage on the same property that fronts the same
                property line.
    B. Properties Subject To Development Or Construction: Properties which have been approved
       for a subdivision or site plan are subject to the following guidelines:
           1. Properties subject to development or construction shall be allowed one on site sign.
           2. The maximum area of such sign shall be forty-eight(48)square feet.
           3. The maximum height of such sign shall be eight feet (8').
           4. Such sign may be illuminated by indirect lighting only.
           5. Such sign shall be removed immediately upon issuance of the final building permit
              for residential properties or the final certificate of occupancy for nonresidential
                  properties.
                         of Temporary Signs:
            1. Banners: Banners may be used subject to the following provisions:
                  a. Such signs may be used in all nonresidential zones and the designated
                      commercial land use areas within approved mixed-use developments.
                  b. Such signs shall be allowable for the eny recognized federal, state, or
                      religious holiday periods without a permit.
                     c. Such signs shall be allowable for an additional four (il) five f5) occurrences
                         percalendaryearuptofourteen{14)days peroccurrence.Occurrences may
                         run consecutively, upon issuance of a temporary sign permit for such, but
                         shall be considered independent occurrences.
                     d. Businesses which have received a new business license shall be allowed a
                         banner sign for forty-five(45)days during a grand opening upon issuance of
                         a temporary sign permit. This permit shall not count as an occurrence.
        e.   Vinvl banners affixed to buildings are permitted for a duration of 90 davs
             from the date of receiving a business license, then must be removed within
             10 davs.
        f.      Two (2) banners per street frontage may be a maximum of thirty-two
           (32)square feet each.
        g. Such signs must be securely attached to a structure, fence, or to ground
           posts. When mounted to the ground, banners may be not higher than forty-
           eight inches (48") from the ground to the top of the sign and must have a
           stabilizing crossbar between the ground posts at the top of the sign.
        h. Such signs shall not be located within any public or private right-of-way,
           park strips, medians, or roundabouts.
        i. Such signs shall not be placed where they obstruct the view of any sign
           identified in subsection 11.220.010(A) of this chapter, or view of any
           pedestrians, cyclists, or oncoming traffic.
        j. Banners may be two (2) faced but may not be split faced as identified in
           subsection 11.220.060(H)(2) of this chapter.
        k. Permission for the placement of such signs from property owners shall be
           required as a part of an application for a temporary signage permit.(Ord.
             2020-18,8/26/2020)
2.   Feather/Blade:

        a. Such signs mav be used in all nonresidential zones and the designated
           commercial land use areas within approved mixed-use develooments.
        b. Such signs shall be allowable for the anv recognized federal, state, or
             religious holiday periods without a permit.
        c. Such signs shall be allowable for an additional five (5) occurrences per
             calendarvear UP to fourteen (14)davs per occurrence. Occurrences mav run
             consecutively, upon issuance of a temporary sign permit for such, but shall
             be considered independent occurrences.
        d.   Businesses which have received a new business license shall be allowed a
             feather/blade/quill sign for fortv-five(45)davs during a grand opening upon
             issuance of a temporary sign permit. This permit shall not count as an
             occurrence.

        e. Up to three (31 feather/blade/quill signs are permitted per business street
           frontage and shall have a maximum height of 14'.
        f. Such signs shall not be located within anv public or private right-of-wav.
             park strips, medians, or roundabouts.
        g. Such signs shall not be placed where thev obstruct the view of anv sign
             identified in subsection 11.220.010(A) of this chapter, or the view of anv
             pedestrians, cvclists. or oncoming traffic.
                    h. Permission for the placement of such signs from property owners shall be
                         required as a part of an application for a temporary signage permit.
                    i.   Businesses shall be responsible for sign occurrences and be required to
                         take down temporary signage at the end of permitted occurrence.
           3.   Inflatables:
                    a. Such signs mav be used in all nonresidential zones and the designated
                         commercial land use areas within aooroved mixed-use develooments.
                    b. Businesses which have received a new business license shall be allowed up
                         to two (2) inflatable signs for fortv-five (45) davs during a ^rand opening
                         upon issuance of a temporary sign permit. There shall be no other
                         occurrences permitted.

                    c. Inflatable signs shall not have moving parts or components.
                    d. Such signs shall not be located within anv public or private right-of-wav.
                       park strips, medians, or roundabouts.
                    e. Such signs shall not be placed where thev obstruct the view of anv sign
                         identified in subsection 11.22Q.Q10(A) of this chapter.
                    f.   Permission for the placement of such signs from crooertv owners shall be
                         required as a part of an application for a temporary signage permit.
           4.   Pennants:

                    a. Such si^ns mav be used in all nonresidential zones and the designated
                       commercial land use areas within approved mixed-use developments.
                    b.   Businesses which have received a new business license shall be allowed

                         oennants or strings of pennants for fortv-five (451 davs during a grand
                         opening upon issuance of a temporary sign permit. There shall be no other
                         occurrences permitted.
                    c. Such signs shall not be located within anv public or private right-of-wav.
                         park strios. medians, or roundabouts.
                    d. Such signs shall not be placed where thev obstruct the view of anv sign
                       identified in subsection 11.220.Q10(A) of this chapter.
                    e. Permission for the placement of such signs from property owners shall be
                       required as a part of an application for a temporary signage permit.

H.220.030 Definitions


Blade Sign: See Feather Sign-

Feather Sign: Lightweight, portable signs, often made of fabric or similar materials, attached to a
vertical pole or stand, allowed at a maximum height of 14'.

Pennants: A shaped, lightweight sign, made of plastic, fabric, or other material (whether or not
containing a message of anv kind) suspended from a rooe. wire, or string, usually in a series, and
designed to move in the wind.
Quill Sign: See Feather Sign.

INFLATABLES: Any device supported by heated air, forced air, or other gases for the purpose of
drawing attention to a business.

11.220.120 Prohibited Signs

N. Flags, banners, pennants or strings of pennants, wind or forced air powered signs, or other
devices designed or allowed to wave,flap, or rotate with the wind except for flags, pennants, and
insignias expressly permitted by this chapter;

0. Banners of any size for which a temporary sign permit has not been issued according to this
chapter;

P. Inflatables, unless expressly permitted by this chapter;
                                                  B
                                         BllFFD^LE
                   2222 West 14400 South • Bluffdale, Utah 84065 • (801)254-2200
                         Community and Economic Development Department
                                            Planning Division

                                            STAFF REPORT
                                           November 28,2024



To:          City of Bluffdale Planning Commission
Prepared By: Ellen Oakman,Associate Planner

Re:     City Initiated Text Amendment to Amend Regulations of Temporary Signs
        Application No:         2024-35
        Applicant(s):           City of Bluffdale
        Request:                To consider forwarding a positive recommendation of proposed text
                                amendments to Section 11.220.080 Temporary Signage of the
                                Bluffdale City Land Use Regulations.
SUMMARY
The City of Bluffdale has been welcoming many new commercial businesses to the community which
have associated temporary signage. Some local businesses have provided feedback to the city that
additional temporary signage options are desired, and the City Council directed staff to propose
 potential amendments tothesignageordinance. The city has initiated a text amendment to amend
the temporary sign code to allow for more temporary signage for businesses, while maintaining the
character of the city through its streetscape design standards. City staff has sought to fulfill the
purpose of signs, which is;"to protect and promote the health,safety, and welfare of City residents and
businesses by regulating the design, construction, and installation ofsigns in a content-neutral manner
that does not favor any type ofspeech over another..."as referenced in the sign code in BCC 11.220.01,
[etc.]. A few key objectives in particular have been considered in the proposed amendment;

   •    To foster a community character and appearance that has minimal visual clutter;
   •    To enhance the economic strength ofthe City;
   •    To provide business owners the flexibility to have signs that meet the needs ofthe individual
        businesses;
   •    To promote public safety;and

Staff has researched requirements from other communities and found that we are similar to many
cities, yet still lack certain signs that other cities are allowing. For example, most communities allow
feather/blade signs to be used as temporary signs during promotional periods. Most communities also
prohibit inflatables, but several allow them only during grand opening periods.



                                                          Application 2024-35 -Temporary Sign Text Amendment
                                                               December 4,2024 - Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                     Page 1
                                      ELmn




staff has also gone through multiple work sessions to explore interest and tolerance in amending the
temporary sign code from the City Council (10.19.24) and Planning Commission (11.06.24). They have
collected feedback and drafted a proposed ordinance which reflects those discussions. The main
temporary signs discussed were banners, inflatables,feather/blade signs, and pennants. Currently the
only temporary signs permitted are banners.The City Council and the Planning Commission have
demonstrated interest in allowing a greater variety of temporary signs, especially during business
grand openings. The general opinion from the City Council and Planning Commission was to allow
feather/blade signs as another temporary sign, and to allow inflatables, pennants as grand opening
signs only.




          / M ^


Both the Planning Commission and City Council wanted to Increase the promotional sign periods of
temporary signs - banners,and feather/blade signs. The City Council sought the Planning
Commission's Input on number of promotional periods, number oftemporary signs allowed per
street, dimensions of feather/blade signs,[etc.]

Below are tables that show the sign changes from existing to proposed -

                      Grand opening period             Days/occurrences           Total Days per year

   Existing                 45 days                   14 days/4 occurrences            101 days
  Proposed                  45 days                14 davs/5 occurrences               115 days




                                                        Application 2024-35 -Temporary Sign Text Amendment
                                                             December 4,2024 - Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                   Page 2
               Temporary Sign Types    Temp.Sign Types- grand openings               Number of signs permitted
   Existing           Banners                      Banners                                        1

  Proposed        Banners, Feather        Banners,Feather, Inflatables        2for banner per frontage,3feather signs per
                                                                                     frontage & 1 inflatable per site


[Note: A-Frame signs allowed without a permit at any time]

After reviewing both meetings and considering surrounding community sign standards, we have
prepared a temporary sign ordinance amendment that seeks to meet the interests of both groups and
businesses alike. Overall,the city seeks to increase temporary sign allowance for businesses
throughout the community.

Staff has drafted the attached draft ordinance redlines which amends the temporary sign code.

MODEL MOTIONS - FOR TEXT AMENDMENT APPLICATION:


Motion for Recommendation -"1 move to forward a positive recommendation of the proposed text
amendment,as presented,(or as modified by findings or conditions below)"
       1.      List any additional findings and/or conditions...

EXHIBITS
Exhibit A - Draft Redlines




                                                              Application 2024-35 -Temporary Sign Text Amendment
                                                                   December4,2024•Planning Commission Meeting
                                                                                                           Pages
