CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2026-01

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING CHAPTER 9.10.020
RELATED TO THE ADOPTION OF THE WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE BUILDING
STANDARDS

WHEREAS, the City Council has previously adopted Chapter 9.10.020 which adopts
the State Construction Code as the Building Code for the City; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code § 65A-8-203(4)(f) now requires that a City desiring to
participate in the State wildland cooperative fire protection program adopt and enforce
the wildland urban interface building standards as defined in Utah Code § 65A-8-401(4);
and

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that adopting the amendments to Chapter
9.10.020 in Exhibit A are in the best interests of the health, safety, and welfare of the City.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

Section1. Adoption. Ordinance 2026-01 is hereby adopted amending Chapter
9.10.020 of the Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

Section2. Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances,
resolutions, policies, or zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent
herewith they are hereby amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be
amended to comply with the provisions hereof, they are hereby repealed.

Section3. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
portion of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance
shall be severable.

Section4. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

PASSED AND APPROVED: February 25, 2026
CITY OF BLUFFDALE

ATTEST:

City Recorder

Voting by the City Council:

Yes
Councilmember Aston rid
Councilmember Austin Pos
Councilmember Smith ee
Councilmember Lord pe
Councilmember Wilding
Mayor Hall (tie only)
EXHIBIT A

9.10.020 Building Codes Adopted

A. Adoption: The City of Bluffdale adopts the State Construction Code as adopted in Utah
Code Annotated title 15A, "State Construction and Fire Codes Act" and the building
standards in the 2006 edition of the Utah Wildland Urban Interface Code, issued by the

International Code Council, with the alternatives or amendments approved by the Utah
Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands and subsequent amendments thereof, as the

Building Code of the City of Bluffdale.

B. Copy Of Codes: A copy of each of the adopted codes shall be filed in the City Recorder's
Office for use and examination by the public during regular business hours.

C. Violations:
1. Violation Of Codes: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
perform, authorize or acquiesce in any work, use or maintenance of any building
or structure or portion thereof in violation of any of the provisions of the Building
Codes or this chapter.
2. Failure To Comply With Order: It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or
corporation to fail to comply with a lawful order of the building official or building
inspector.
3. Penalty: Any person violating the provisions contained herein shall be guilty of a
Class B misdemeanor and, upon conviction, subject to penalty as provided in title
1, chapter 4 of this Code, and shall be guilty of a separate offense for each and
every calendar day or portion thereof during which any violation occurs or
continues.
