CITY OF BLUFFDALE, UTAH
ORDINANCE NO. 2026-05

AN ORDINANCE AMENDING BLUFFDALE CITY CODE CHAPTER 3.40 “RETAIL FIREWORKS

OUTLETS” AND SECTION 11.180.020 TO ALLOW OUTDOOR SALES OF FIREWORKS AS A

PERMITTED TEMPORARY USE AND UPDATING RETAIL FIREWORKS OUTLETS LICENSING
REQUIREMENTS

WHEREAS, the City of Bluffdale’s current retail fireworks sales regulations were
adopted in 1988; and

WHEREAS, an Applicant has proposed a code amendment to Bluffdale City Code
Chapter 3.40 “Retail Fireworks Outlets” and Section 11.180.020 to allow outdoor sales of
fireworks as a permitted temporary use and to update retail fireworks outlets licensing
requirements pursuant to the Utah Fireworks Act (Utah Admin Code R710-2); and

WHEREAS, a notice of public hearing for the proposed amendments was provided
in accordance with the Bluffdale City Code and Utah State Code; and

WHEREAS, on May 20, 2026, the Planning Commission conducted a public hearing
and forwarded a positive recommendation of the proposed code amendments to the City
Council; and

WHEREAS, the City Council has considered the effect of the proposed code
amendments on family health, stability, and formation pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-702.1
before enacting this Ordinance.

WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the proposed code amendments are in the
best interests of the City and its residents.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF BLUFFDALE,
UTAH AS FOLLOWS:

Section1. Adoption. Ordinance 2026-05 is hereby adopted, amending the
Bluffdale City Code as shown in Exhibit A.

Section2. —_ Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective immediately
upon publication or posting as required by law.

Section3. | Amendment of Conflicting Ordinances. If any ordinances,
resolutions, policies, or zoning maps of the City heretofore adopted are inconsistent
herewith they are hereby amended to comply with the provisions hereof. If they cannot be
amended to comply with the provisions hereof, they are hereby repealed.

Section4. Severability. If any section, part, or provision of this Ordinance is
held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other
portion of this Ordinance and all sections, parts, provisions and words of this Ordinance
shall be severable.

PASSED AND APPROVED: May 27, 2026

CITY OF BLUFFDALE

ATTEST:

City Recorder

Voting by the City Council: Yes

Councilmember Aston
Councilmember Austin
Councilmember Lord
Councilmember Smith
Councilmember Wilding

Mayor Natalie Hall (tiebreaker, if needed)
Bluffdale Fireworks Code Changes

11.180.020 Permitted Temporary Uses
Permitted temporary uses include:

Carnivals and circuses.

Qutdoor sales of fireworks.

Christmas tree sales lots.
Flower stands.
Music festivals.

Occupancy of a temporary or existing dwelling during the remodeling of an existing or
construction of new detached single-family home (allowed only in the A-5, R-1-87, R-1-43, and
R-1-10 Zones and Cluster Residential and Infill Overlays).

Political rallies.

Promotional displays.

Rummage sales.

Seasonal fruit and vegetable stands.
Snow shacks/shave ice stands.

Tents for religious services.

3.40.020 Outlet License Requirements Outdoor Sales of Fireworks Requirements
The license assessor shall issue a license permitting operation of retail fireworks euttet sales

to any person who fulfills all of the following requirements:

1) Location: Fireworks sales shall only be permitted in areas zoned for commercial or
industrial uses.
2) Application: The applicant shall complete and sign the appropriate form on file at the city
offices or available on the city’s official website.
3) Sales requirements
a) Temporary stands, trailers and tents shall comply with the rules set forth in The Utah
Fireworks Act (Utah Admin Code R710-2)
b) Temporary stands, trailers or tents for the sale of division 1.4g common state
approved explosives shall be located at least 50 feet from other stands, trailers, tents,
LPG, flammable liquid or gas storage and dispensing units, and least 25 feet from an

roved fireworks storage container.

<) Overnight Storage

11) Land Use: The retail fireworks ewtlet must conform to the applicable provisions of the
land use ordinances, including, but not limited to, the setback and sign requinement

15) Insurance: The owner or operator of the retail fireworks shall furnish to the Business
License Official a certificate showing amounts of insurance coverage, and showing the city

as an additional insured.

16) Inspection: The Heense-assesser Business License Official shall inspect the retail fireworks
outlet prior to issuance of a license, but after such outlet has been made ready for
operation, and shall examine such outlet for conformity with this chapter.

17) Fee: The owner or operator of the retail fireworks outlet shall pay to the city a fee as
specified in the city fee schedule, which shall not be refundable for any reason. This fee
must be received by the city before the retail fireworks outlet is inspected by the city for
compliance with this feantess

18) Storage: Ne-mer i e
sioerdcclinli foxx Cieabanrtiengcitersierticl No fireworks shall be heat overnight i in the
stand. Inventory which cannot be kept in the stand must be kept in a one-hour fire rated
roofed room located at a place where a stand could be located under this section, or ina

steel shipping container approved for commercial storage.
19) Removal: The retail fireworks sales establishment shall be removed no later than fourteen
Code.

calendar days after the egal date of sa efined b

3.40.060 Revocation Of License

1. Effect: A license which has been revoked is not valid for any purpose.

2. Outtet Retail License: A license issued pursuant to section 3-4-2 3.40.020 of this chapter
may be revoked for any of the following reasons:

1. Failure of the licensee to maintain the retail fireworks evttet sales establishment
in conformity with the requirements for issuance of a license.

2. Misrepresentation by the person signing the application.

3. Failure by the licensee to conform to the statements made in the application.

