                                  Herriman city
Who is filling out this report?
Susan Petheram
Senior Planner
spetheram@ffkr.com
801-534-4240

Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element:


Link to adoption resolution or ordinance:
https://www.herriman.gov/uploads/files/3067/Herriman-Moderate-Income-Housing-Plan-2022-
2.pdf


Link to general plan, moderate income housing element:
https://www.herriman.gov/uploads/files/3067/Herriman-Moderate-Income-Housing-Plan-2022-
2.pdf

You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting.
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on
last year.




                                                                                           283
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan
tasks and timelines we reported on last year.

2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and
recommendation regarding the MIH program


ZONING MAP
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map.
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances.
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial
Resource Center.


Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov.
Uploaded

When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur?
Text amendment on May 14, 2025

ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. Do not include any parcels or
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it
in this data. If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your
report.


Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a
building permit.
13529




                                                                                                284
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that
have NOT pulled a building permit.
886

Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions,
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building
permit.
3545

From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units,
parcels, or lots.
278



Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc.
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to
support the data reported above.
Lack of access due to current property ownership configuration. Lack of access to water and/or
the need to construct new water tank facilities. Geographic/topographic constraints. Proximity to
Camp Williams may lead to reconfiguration/reduction of the potential number of entitled units or
the location of some of these units.

Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.).
The Olympia development, consisting of 937 acres on Herriman’s northwest side, has executed
a PID and is currently in the process of building roads and providing infrastructure to facilitate
the development of entitled units. The Olympia development accounts for a total of 6,480
entitled units. Phase One, which consists of approximately 1,000 units, has approved
preliminary plats and/or subdivisions for approximately 500 units that have not yet been
recorded as lots or received building permits.The South Hills and Panorama developments,
consisting of a combined 921 acres on Herriman’s southeast side, have executed a PID and are
in the process of building water tank infrastructure to facilitate the development of entitled units.
No lots have been recorded, and no permits have been issued. To account for the road
infrastructure needed to develop the non-MDA units, a reduction of 20% has been applied to the
base residential zoning estimates. Herriman has a Planned Development Overlay Zone that is
available for all zones city-wide. The density allowed is based on gross density, which has been




                                                                                                  285
estimated at 20% above base zoning. This “bonus” amount above the base zoning has been
used for the unit count estimate for overlay zones.


ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS

The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external,
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date.


How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units?
(select one)
Count of building permits issued

Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission
date:
18
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
15

Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025:
n/a


Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please
provide the count and type of permit or license issued)
n/a




                                                                                                286
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report.

1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. (For the list of
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties)
A
B
E
F
G
K

2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025.
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is
still helpful to making progress on the strategy.
A
Implementation of Strategy (A) is supported by two action items in Herriman's Moderate Income
Housing Plan and Ongoing Actions.Action Item #1: Herriman will ensure zoning designations
allow for higher density and/or moderate-income housing development in the mixed use Towne
Center, near the SLCC campus, and adjacent to commercial and employment centers.
[Implements Strategy A, Strategy F, and Strategy G] (Year 3: 2024-2025) Benchmark 1C:
Initiate rezoning for densities necessary to facilitate production of MIH in areas identified
according to prioritization.Action Item #2: Herriman will continue to encourage some PUD
neighborhoods with small lot sizes and support integration of small lot sizes into developments
to support a mix of housing options within the same neighborhood. [Implements Strategy
A](Year 3: 2024-2025) Benchmark 2D: Initiate updates to residential zones for integrating small
lot sizes as identified above.Implementation of Strategy (A) is also supported by
Previous/Ongoing EffortsHerriman has previously rezoned hundreds of acres for densities
necessary to facilitate the production of moderate income housing. The approval of several
Master Development Agreements (approved and amended between 2000 and 2024), and the
subsequent zoning/rezoning to reflect the vested development rights, continues to support
Herriman's efforts to implement this strategy. A range of housing units are entitled for
development, including small lot single-family, attached single-family townhomes, and multi-
family apartments, with more than half constructed. These are providing diverse housing options
for people to live in Herriman, including moderate-income households. These MDAs include:




                                                                                            287
Anthem, Herriman Towne Center, Miller Crossing, Mountain Ridge, Olympia, Rosecrest, and
Wasatch-South Hills.

B
Implementation of Strategy (B) is supported by one action item in Herriman's Moderate Income
Housing Plan.Action Item #3: Herriman will coordinate the rehabilitation or expansion of Active
Transportation infrastructure to facilitate construction of moderate-income housing. [Implements
Strategy B](Year 3: 2024-2025) Benchmark 3C: Initiate rehabilitation and expansion of Active
Transportation infrastructure in priority areas.Previous decisions on funding, pursuit of grants
and outside funding, partnerships with regional and state entities, and the integration of active
transportation design elements in Master Development Agreements provide ongoing actions for
this strategy.

E
Implementation of Strategy (E) is supported by one action item in Herriman's Moderate Income
Housing Plan.Action Item #4: Herriman will consider allowing detached ADUs in appropriate
residential neighborhoods and will track both internal/attached ADUs and detached ADUs.
[Implements Strategy E](Year 3: 2024-2025) Benchmark 4D: Prioritize and begin updating
regulations to allow detached ADUs in the residential and neighborhood zones that meet the
city's criteria.
F
Implementation of Strategy (F) is supported by two action items in Herriman's Moderate Income
Housing Plan and Ongoing Actions.Action Item #1: Herriman will ensure zoning designations
allow for higher density and/or moderate-income housing development in the mixed use Towne
Center, near the SLCC campus, and adjacent to commercial and employment centers.
[Implements Strategy A, Strategy F, and Strategy G](Year 3: 2024-2025) Benchmark 1C: Initiate
rezoning for densities necessary to facilitate production of MIH in areas identified according to
prioritization.Action Item #5: Herriman will allow for Multi-Family or Townhome Mixed Use
Development as buffers between commercial and Single-Family Residential areas, as well as in
the Herriman Towne Center (HTC) and major transit investment corridors as identified in the
regional plan. [Implements Strategy F and Strategy G](Year 3: 2024-2025) Benchmark 5C:
Initiate rezoning for a mix of housing, including Multi-Family or Townhomes, in areas identified
according to prioritization.Implementation of Strategy (F) is also supported by Previous/Ongoing
EffortsHerriman has previously zoned or rezoned hundreds of acres for higher density or
moderate income residential development in commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit
investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers; The approval of several
Master Development Agreements (approved and amended between 2000 and 2024), and the
subsequent zoning/rezoning to reflect the vested development rights, continues to support
Herriman's efforts to implement this strategy. A range of housing units are entitled for
development, including small lot single-family, attached single-family townhomes, and multi-
family apartments, with more than half constructed. These are providing diverse housing options
for people to live in Herriman, including moderate-income households. These MDAs include:
Anthem, Herriman Towne Center, Miller Crossing, Mountain Ridge, Olympia, Rosecrest, and
Wasatch-South Hills.




                                                                                               288
G
Implementation of Strategy (G) is supported by two action items in Herriman's Moderate Income
Housing Plan and Ongoing Actions.Action Item #1: Herriman will ensure zoning designations
allow for higher density and/or moderate-income housing development in the mixed use Towne
Center, near the SLCC campus, and adjacent to commercial and employment centers.
[Implements Strategy A, Strategy F, and Strategy G](Year 3: 2024-2025) Benchmark 1C: Initiate
rezoning for densities necessary to facilitate production of MIH in areas identified according to
prioritization.Action Item #5: Herriman will allow for Multi-Family or Townhome Mixed Use
Development as buffers between commercial and Single-Family Residential areas, as well as in
the Herriman Towne Center (HTC) and major transit investment corridors as identified in the
regional plan. [Implements Strategy F and Strategy G](Year 3: 2024-2025) Benchmark 5C:
Initiate rezoning for a mix of housing, including Multi-Family or Townhomes, in areas identified
according to prioritization.Implementation of Strategy (G) is also supported by Previous/Ongoing
EffortsHerriman previously created land use regulations that allow for densities necessary to
facilitate the production of moderate income housing in commercial or mixed-use zones,
especially near expected future transit investment corridors. The approval and amendments of
several Master Development Agreements (approved and amended between 2000 and 2024)
continue to support Herriman's efforts to implement this strategy as a range of housing units
have been constructed or are entitled for development in commercial and mixed use areas,
notably the Herriman Towne Center and SLCC campus areas. These MDAs include: Anthem,
Miller Crossing, Herriman Towne Center, Mountain Ridge, Rosecrest, and Wasatch-South Hills.

K
Implementation of Strategy (K) is supported by one action item in Herriman's Moderate Income
Housing Plan.Action Item #6: Herriman will establish a Housing Task Force to facilitate
preservation and creation of attainable housing for moderate income households. [Implements
Strategy K] [ONGOING]Benchmark 6A: Monitor affordable MIH options and their proportion to
overall housing and residential development. [ONGOING] Benchmark 6B: Monitor Section 42/
Low Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) Housing Projects and expiration timing. (Year 3:
2024-2025) Benchmark 6E: Prioritize and establish programs to preserve existing and new MIH
and subsidized units.

3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the
strategy.
A
Herriman City prioritizes the location of mixed-use development, multi-family, attached single-
family, and small lot single family zones near major transit investment corridors, as buffers to
commercial areas, and in core areas such as the Herriman Towne Center (HTC), Salt Lake
Community College (SLCC) campus, and near Mountain View Corridor, with guidance from the
General Plan. In conjunction with amendments to existing Master Development Agreements
(MDAs) and the establishment of new MDAs (South Hills and Panorama), Herriman initiated
and approved the rezoning of several areas in the southeast section of the City to support
higher density residential development. These areas are near core areas such as the SLCC
campus and the Mountain View Corridor. The zoning changes will allow for small-lot single-

                                                                                              289
family dwellings, attached single-family dwellings, and multi-family apartment dwellings.
Herriman is in the midst of a process to reduce the minimum acreage standard for utilizing the
city’s Planned Development Overlay Zone to make it more accessible to a broader range of
development efforts. A key aspect of the Planned Development Overlay Zone is the ability to
integrate a mix of smaller lot sizes into a development. City Staff have been evaluating the
options for updating the overlay and making it a more feasible option for small-scale
development outside of a Master Development Agreement. Herriman initiated a process to
create two new “small lot” single-family residential zones (R-1-5 and R-1-8) in 2024. This is an
ongoing effort for the city. Included in the proposed zones is the incentive to develop to a gross
density rather than minimum lot sizes if walkable design features are included. This incentive
supports the integration of a mix of lot sizes in a development, including smaller lots. Currently,
the smallest lot size in a base single-family residential zone is 10,000 square feet.Herriman
initiated updates in 2024 to its highest density Agricultural Residential zone (A-1-10) to allow for
the integration of smaller lot sizes in these areas. The updates doubled the allowed base
density within this zone. Since these updates were codified in July 2024, the city has seen
applications for infill development as well as requests for rezones from larger lot agricultural
zones to this smaller lot agricultural zone. Agricultural Residential zoning is important to
Herriman's heritage and Herriman's General Plan articulates which areas in the city are
intended to support productive agriculture and/or large animal rights. The city currently has
approximately 1400 acres zoned A-1-10 and most lots are developed but one-half acre in size
or larger. The smaller allowed lot size will allow for a balance of retaining Herriman’s agricultural
heritage in appropriate areas while facilitating additional small-scale, small lot infill development,
which may also utilize the Planned Development Overlay Zone.

B
Herriman City continues to work on re-striping and updating its roadways to add bike lanes and
sidewalks in efforts to rehabilitate and expand Active Transportation infrastructure city-wide.
Herriman expanded and improved portions of Main Street, which connects new development on
the west end of Herriman to Herriman Towne Center and planned future transit corridors. These
improvements include bike lanes and sidewalks and implemented a high priority project in the
city's Active Transportation Plan. Construction was completed in Fall 2024.Herriman is planning
on widening and improving 6000 West between Herriman Blvd. and Silver Sky Drive.
Improvements will include rebuilding the road, adding a middle turn lane, and adding a gutter,
sidewalk, park strips, and landscaping.Herriman City Council approved public infrastructure
districts (PIDs) for the future Panorama and South Hills developments. These PIDs will place
temporary property taxes on properties in these developments to help pay for public
infrastructure like roads and water lines before homes and businesses are built.

E
Herriman City staff continue to work with the Planning Commission to establish best practices
for detached ADUs in the city and provide guidelines for developing an amendment to the city's
ADU ordinance. Herriman City is planning to regulate and allow for detached ADUs based on lot
size rather than limiting it to specific residential zones. City staff have evaluated the potential
opportunities and impact of detached ADUs based on a few different lot sizes and are working




                                                                                                   290
with the Planning Commission and City Council to find the right fit for Herriman City. Two work
meetings have been held with the Planning Commission in the past year, and one work meeting
has been held with the City Council. This is an active application and is being coordinated with
several city departments to understand utility requirements, impact fees, and the building permit
process.

F
Herriman City prioritizes the location of mixed-use development, multi-family, attached single-
family, and small lot single family zones near major transit investment corridors, as buffers to
commercial areas, and in core areas such as the Herriman Towne Center (HTC), Salt Lake
Community College (SLCC) campus, and near Mountain View Corridor, with guidance from the
General Plan. In conjunction with amendments to existing Master Development Agreements
(MDAs) and the establishment of new MDAs, Herriman initiated and approved the rezoning of
several areas in the southeast section of the City to support higher density residential
development (Panorama MDA; South Hills ARMDA). These areas are near core areas such as
the SLCC campus and the Mountain View Corridor. The zoning changes will allow for small-lot
single-family dwellings, attached single-family dwellings, and multi-family apartment dwellings.
Herriman approved an addition of 300 entitled units to the Herriman Towne Center MDA as part
of the HTC Commons commercial development. This area was strictly commercial and HTC
had already utilized all their vested units. The city required at least 10% of these additional units
to be affordable units for 80% AMI or lower.

G
Herriman City has amended the existing MDA for the Herriman Towne Center to allow for higher
density residential housing in an area previously reserved for commercial only. This added an
additional 300 entitled units to the MDA. As part of this change the city required a certain
percentage of affordable units reserved for 80% AMI.Herriman amended its land use
regulations, captured in one new MDA (Panorama) and an amended and restated MDA (South
Hills), including General Plan amendments, to support the integration of higher density
residential development in and near commercial and mixed-use zones near major transit
investment corridors. Herriman amended the Teton Ranch and Olympia MDAs as part of an
effort to create the Southwest Athletic Complex, including the conversion of previously
dedicated open space areas to housing.

K
Herriman’s Housing Task Force group continues to evaluate strategies and pursue opportunities
for preserving and creating attainable workforce housing options aimed at educators, first
responders, and entry level city employees. A primary goal is to create and maintain deed
restricted housing to help provide and preserve housing in Herriman for those that serve in the
community.Herriman City and the Housing Task Force continue to monitor residential
development and housing options in the city using data from building permits and Master
Development Agreements (MDAs). Each MDA includes the number of vested housing units and
their general type (e.g., single-family or multi-family). Using building permit data, the city tracks
the number of units built out of the total number of vested units for each MDA, as well as




                                                                                                  291
housing units that are not located in an MDA project area. The proportion of multi-family to
single-family units provides a general framework for monitoring potential MIH options available
in Herriman. The approximate split of 40% MFD to 60% SFD reflects the overall composition of
dwelling units vested through the city's Master Development Agreements. Herriman City
currently has one LIHTC/Section 42 housing project in the city. The project contains 288 units
and 258 of these units are set aside for low-income households. The project was placed in
service and credits were allocated in 2011. The initial compliance period of 15 years is set to
end in 2026. The minimum extended compliance period of 15 years is set to end in
2041.Herriman City and the Housing Task Force are prioritizing the facilitation of creating new
MIH and subsidized units by negotiating with developers on requiring a minimum of 10%
affordable units in a new 200+ unit project for an area that previously did not allow residential
uses.




4.       Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy.
A
On November 13, 2024, Herriman City approved the rezoning of several hundred acres in the
southeast corner of the City. The rezoning was in conjunction with the amendment of existing
Master Development Agreements (MDAs) and the establishment of new MDAs (South Hills and
Panorama). The rezoning included the upzoning of large lot agricultural residential zones and
single-family residential zones to small lot single-family zones, attached single-family zones,
and multi-family zones. It also involved the rezoning of vertical Mixed Use areas into multi-family
zones. These rezonings support Herriman City’s ongoing efforts to allow for higher density
and/or moderate-income housing development in the mixed use Towne Center, near the SLCC
campus, and adjacent to commercial and employment centers.Herriman approved several
smaller scale rezone requests city-wide in the past 12 months that are consistent with the FLU
map in the General Plan and lead to an increase in the number of housing units. Preliminary
plats and/or subdivisions have been administratively approved for several areas in Phase One
of the Olympia Large Project Master Planned Community (LPMPC) Zone to begin implementing
residential development of approximately 1,000 units, which includes densities necessary to
facilitate the production of moderate income housing.

B
In December 2024, the City Council approved public infrastructure districts (PIDs) for the future
Panorama and South Hills developments. Construction of infrastructure is in process and active
transportation infrastructure will be integrated into the transportation network. In May 2025,
Herriman City authorized staff to seek approximately $560,000 from UDOT to add a raised
median refuge, rectangular rapid-flashing beacons, and a short sidewalk link near Silver Crest
Elementary. If awarded, the City’s $39,600 match would be budgeted in fiscal year 2027.




                                                                                                292
Construction could improve a long-standing pedestrian safety concern near the elementary
school, library, and recreation center.A public open house was held in late May 2025 for the
6000 West improvement project and property acquisition is ongoing. The project’s final design is
in progress. The project is tentatively planned for construction in 2026 with an estimated cost of
$2.1 million.In March 2024, City Council approved funding for the Midas Creek Trail Extension.
The project cost is $1,650,000 ($850,000 from Herriman City's Park Impact Fee Fund and
$800,000 from a Salt Lake County grant). Construction is ongoing. Funding has also been
approved to conduct sidewalk and curb concrete work on various roadways city-wide to comply
with the most recent federal ADA requirements. These decisions support the city's efforts to
create non-automobile connections between new/existing moderate income housing options
and the city's centers.

E
In May 2024, the City Council directed staff to initiate the process for amending the ADU
ordinance to allow for detached ADUs and the city has been working on right-sizing this strategy
over the past year. An updated ordinance is expected to be approved in late 2025 or early 2026.

F
On November 13, 2024, Herriman City approved the rezoning of several hundred acres in the
southeast corner of the City. The rezoning was in conjunction with the amendment of existing
Master Development Agreements (MDAs) and the establishment of new MDAs (South Hills and
Panorama). The rezoning included the upzoning of large lot agricultural residential zones and
single-family residential zones to small lot single-family zones, attached single-family zones,
and multi-family zones. It also involved the rezoning of vertical Mixed Use areas into multi-family
zones. These rezonings support Herriman City’s ongoing efforts to allow for higher density
and/or moderate-income housing development in the mixed use Towne Center, near the SLCC
campus, and adjacent to commercial and employment centers.On December 11, 2024,
Herriman City approved the amendment to the Herriman Towne Center MDA to include
residential development of 300 units in the commercial development of the HTC Commons.

G
On November 13, 2024, Herriman City amended existing Master Development Agreements
(MDAs) and approved a new MDA (South Hills and Panorama). The MDAs will include the shift
of large lot agricultural residential zones and single-family residential zones to small lot single-
family zones, attached single-family zones, and multi-family zones. It also involved the
conversion of vertical Mixed Use areas into multi-family areas. These amendments support
Herriman City’s ongoing efforts to allow for higher density and/or moderate-income housing
development in the mixed use Towne Center, near the SLCC campus, and adjacent to
commercial and employment centers.On December 11, 2024, Herriman City approved the
amendment to the Herriman Towne Center MDA to include residential development of 300 units
in the commercial development of the HTC Commons. For the Southwest Athletic Complex,
Community meetings: Held in January 2025; Planning Commission review: April 2, 2025; Final
City Council approval: April 23, 2025.




                                                                                                 293
K
In December 2024, City permitted residential in an area that city previously had said “no more
residential”. This is land near the Herriman Towne Center, which had been identified as the
commercial section of the overall mixed-use development master plan.




5.      What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1,
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers
were experienced, write "None."
A
Higher interest rates, along with an overall rise in housing costs, continue to impact the
affordability of housing. Herriman continues to maintain a sizeable proportion of small-lot single-
family and multi-family units in its overall housing stock (multi-family units represent
approximately 40% of all housing units while small lot single-family units (lots smaller than
10,000 square feet) represent approximately an additional 15% of all housing units. While these
units are more affordable relative to larger lot single-family units in the Herriman community, the
market response has shifted the cost of some of these units outside the moderate-income
housing affordable range.While there are many small single-family lots in Herriman, market
forces continue to favor the construction of larger homes on smaller lots, instead of smaller (and
more affordable) homes on smaller lots. Without the ability to require design standards for
single- and two-family dwellings, cities cannot require desirable, affordable design solutions
without providing incentives or entering a negotiated entitlement process.

B
While Herriman has been successful in partnering on projects, funding to fully achieve the city's
Active Transportation priorities may continue to be a barrier. Herriman continues to pursue
grants and partnerships to help fund projects and support connections to new/existing moderate
income housing.

E
None.

F
A primary barrier related to this strategy is the continued delay in implementing transit in the
transit investment corridor. The planned Mid-Jordan Extension and Extension to University
corridors from the Daybreak Station run through the east side of Herriman, where higher density
residential is built, entitled, or planned. However, these remain classified as Corridor
Preservation projects based on the most recent Regional Transportation Plan(2023-2050). For
this strategy to be fully realized the transit improvements must be implemented.




                                                                                                 294
G
A primary barrier related to this strategy is the continued delay in implementing transit in the
transit investment corridor. The planned Mid-Jordan Extension and Extension to University
corridors from the Daybreak Station run through the east side of Herriman, where higher density
residential is built, entitled, or planned. However, these remain classified as Corridor
Preservation projects based on the most recent Regional Transportation Plan (2023-2050). For
this strategy to be fully realized the transit improvements must be implemented.

K
None




6.      Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.).
A
Herriman’s land use decisions to rezone for higher densities over the past two decades continue
to see market response by the ongoing issuance of building permits in approved MDA project
areas and non-MDA areas. Herriman continues to maintain a sizeable proportion of small-lot
single-family and multi-family units in its overall housing stock (multi-family units represent
approximately 40% of all housing units while small lot single-family units (lots smaller than
10,000 square feet) represent approximately an additional 15% of all housing units. In the past
year, Herriman has issued the following number of building permits: 312 Single-Family
Dwellings; 153 Multi-Family Dwellings; 50 Condos; 1 Accessory Dwelling Units. Of these, the
following number are located within an MDA area: 265 Single-Family Dwellings; 150 Multi-
Family Dwellings; 50 Condos.

B
Housing units continue to be permitted and built, both within areas served by existing
infrastructure and areas served by new/pending infrastructure. Phase One of the Olympia MDA
area is underway, with infrastructure construction continuing and many preliminary plats and
final subdivisions approved. A total of 417 permits have been issued in this area, and these
include both single-family and multi-family dwellings. Additional lots have been recorded or on
tap for recordation. Infrastructure construction has begun on the Panorama and South Hills
MDA areas in the southeast portion of the city. Active transportation infrastructure, including a
paved trail system and separated bike lanes will be part of the overall transportation network. In
the past year, Herriman has issued the following number of building permits: 312 Single-Family
Dwellings; 153 Multi-Family Dwellings; 50 Condos; 1 Accessory Dwelling Units. Of these, the
following number are located within an MDA area: 265 Single-Family Dwellings; 150 Multi-
Family Dwellings; 50 Condos.




                                                                                                295
E
Herriman continues to see applications for internal ADUs. Since the city began tracking ADUs in
2017, Herriman has received a total of 68 applications. Of these, 25 have been approved and 1
was withdrawn. In the past 12 months, Herriman has received 25 applications and 15 of these
have been issued a building permit. Herriman continues to see an increase in applications each
year.

F
Previous land use decisions to rezone for higher densities in commercial or mixed-use zones
near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers, continue to
see market response by the ongoing issuance of building permits in approved MDA project
areas and non-MDA areas. Herriman continues to maintain a sizeable proportion of small-lot
single-family and multi-family units in its overall housing stock (multi-family units represent
approximately 40% of all housing units while small lot single-family units (lots smaller than
10,000 square feet) represent approximately an additional 15% of all housing units. In the past
year, Herriman has issued the following number of building permits: 312 Single-Family
Dwellings; 153 Multi-Family Dwellings; 50 Condos; 1 Accessory Dwelling Units. Of these, the
following number are located within an MDA area: 265 Single-Family Dwellings; 150 Multi-
Family Dwellings; 50 Condos. Many of these permits are for properties located in or adjacent to
commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or
employment centers.

G
Previous land use decisions to support higher densities in commercial or mixed-use zones near
major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or employment centers, continue to see
market response by the ongoing issuance of building permits in approved MDA project areas
and non-MDA areas. Herriman continues to maintain a sizeable proportion of small-lot single-
family and multi-family units in its overall housing stock (multi-family units represent
approximately 40% of all housing units while small lot single-family units (lots smaller than
10,000 square feet) represent approximately an additional 15% of all housing units. In the past
year, Herriman has issued the following number of building permits: 312 Single-Family
Dwellings; 153 Multi-Family Dwellings; 50 Condos; 1 Accessory Dwelling Units. Of these, the
following number are located within an MDA area: 265 Single-Family Dwellings; 150 Multi-
Family Dwellings; 50 Condos. Many of these permits are for properties located in or adjacent to
commercial or mixed-use zones near major transit investment corridors, commercial centers, or
employment centers.

K
Herriman was successful in establishing a development partner for a new 200+ unit multi-family
project on land near the Herriman Towne Center, which is geared toward offering affordable
housing options in a horizontal mixed-use context. The project is moving forward. Herriman City
was hesitant to adjust areas of the Herriman Towne Center intended for commercial.
Developers indicate they need more units to make the commercial happen. Herriman City was




                                                                                             296
willing to re-write/modify the MDA and allow for residential units with the stipulation that
affordable 80% AMI units are part of the project.




7.     Links to supporting documentation (Optional)
A

B
https://www.herriman.org/construction-projects

E

F

G
https://www.herriman.gov/athletic-complex

K




       Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional)
A

B

E

F

G

K




                                                                                               297
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply)
Housing supply data,Housing needs data,Planning technical assistance,Model
ordinances.,Case studies for strategies,Guidebooks for planning and reporting


Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A)
Funding for transit and active transportation infrastructure improvements with priority for high-
growth communities is essential for quality of life and economic prosperity.Technical assistance
regarding administration of deed restrictions on moderate income units and other proven
solutions would be valuable. Like regional public transportation agencies who are responsible
for the coordination of transportation systems and providing technical transportation assistance,
perhaps the State could fund regional “Department of Housing” offices to administrate housing
grants and promote “smart housing” legislation.Organize or produce annual (or semi-annual)
"Land Development Conferences" for local and regional developers and private investors on
"the art of building" attainable, attractive, sustainable, walkable communities. Cities need
development partners who will build not just housing, but will build better, affordable
neighborhoods and communities. Cities want development partners who will earn and deserve
recognition as "town founders," rather than “developers."Utah needs State leaders who
understand that increased density warrants increased design standards, especially when
permitting "small lot/small footprint" single-family starter homes. While increased density is not
always a problem, increased design is always a solution. We need the State Legislature to
restore the ability for communities to regulate design for one- and two-family homes when
permitting "small lot" development. While cities have online access to a plethora of municipal
codes, sorting through the web to find effective zoning tools is time-consuming. Municipalities
need “ready access” to proven—but adaptable—model zoning codes that facilitate the
development of healthy, desirable moderate-income housing and neighborhoods.Municipalities
need sufficient authority (in LUDMA) to establish local design standards for modular
construction to ensure quality design while accommodating increased densities and
construction efficiencies for affordable single-family housing. Deregulation should not facilitate a
resurgence in low-quality construction and/or materials. Our hard-working Utah families deserve
better.Like the benefits and risks associated with respect to professional advice given by a City
Attorney or City Engineer, the Utah State Legislature should consider laws that recognize,
protect, and empower professionally trained and certified city planners who have qualified
knowledge, skills, and experience to promote effective planning, zoning, and housing policies.
Often, implementation of these critical housing policies are unpopular but necessary to develop
safe, attractive, and successful communities. Unfortunately, city planners lack cultural, legal,




                                                                                                 298
political, and public support to be effective when opposed by the electorate and elected officials.
Planners are generally not the problem, but the solution.


If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following:
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your
community a written certification of compliance.
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov.
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10).


Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report.




                                                                                                   299
