                                          NOTICE OF MEETING
                                        PLANNING COMMISSION
                                          CITY OF ST. GEORGE
                                      WASHINGTON COUNTY, UTAH

                                                  Public Notice

Notice is hereby given that the Planning Commission of the City of St. George, Washington County, Utah, will
hold a Planning Commission meeting in the City Council Chambers, 175 East 200 North, St George, Utah, on
Tuesday, May 23, 2023, commencing at 5:00 p.m.

The agenda for the meeting is as follows:
Call to Order
Flag Salute


   1. Lin’s Market Zoning Map Amendment and Preliminary Plat – Rick Magness, representing AWA
      Engineering is requesting approval of a Zoning Map Amendment and a preliminary plat on the property
      located at approximately 2700 to 2900 South River Road for the purpose of constructing a grocery store
      and commercial pads. The project is known as Lin’s Market River Road. (Staff – Dan Boles)
                  a. PUBLIC HEARING: Consider a request to change the zoning from A-20 (Agriculture,
                     20-acre minimum lot size) and OS (Open Space) to PD-C (Planned Development
                     Commercial) on approximately 12.88 acres. The application also includes adopting a use
                     list for the development, and review site plan and building elevations of a proposed grocery
                     store on the site. Case No. 2023-ZC-004.
                  b. Consider a request for a five (5) lot preliminary plat, in order to subdivide the property and
                     create commercial building lots. This plat will be known as Ridley’s St. George
                     Commercial. Case No. 2023-PP-019.


   2. Tonaquint Phases 4-7 Zoning Map Amendment – PUBLIC HEARING: Logan Blake with Quality
      Development, representing Utah State Trust Lands is requesting approval of a Zoning Map Amendment
      from R-1-40 (Single Family Residential minimum 40,000 sq ft lot size) and M & G (Mining & Grazing)
      to R-1-20 (Single Family Residential 20,000 sq ft minimum lot size) on 74.098 acres for the purpose of
      constructing single family homes. The property is generally located south of Tonaquint Terrace and west
      of Tonaquint Heights along Chandler Drive. Case No. 2023-ZC-003. (Staff – Mike Hadley)


   3. Circolo Villas Planned Development Amendment and Preliminary Plat – Grey Garza, representing
      RDG, LLC is requesting approval of a Planned Development Amendment and a preliminary plat on the
      property located south-east of Gap Canyon Pkwy and 1790 West intersection for the purpose of adjusting
      the approved building layout, reducing the number of approved multi-family units, and changing the
      building architecture. The project will be known as Circolo Villas (Staff – Dan Boles)
                 a. PUBLIC HEARING: Consider a request for a Planned Development (PD) amendment
                     to the existing PA-1 Multi-Family PD-R (Planned Development Residential) zone. The
                     applicant is seeking to adjust the previously approved building layout, architecture, and
                     unit count. The proposal would reduce the number of units from 500 approved multi-
                     family units to 464 multi-family units. The property is approximately 34.27 acres. Case
                     No. 2023-PDA-004.
                 b. Consider a request for a three (3) lot preliminary plat, in order to subdivide the property
                     for the residential project. Case No. 2023-PP-011.
Planning Commission Agenda
May 23, 2023
Page 2 of 2


   4. Banded Hills Lot 3 Hillside Development Permit – Jason Ward, representing Rosenberg and Associates
      is requesting approval of a hillside development permit to allow construction on a portion of a single lot
      in the existing Banded Hills subdivision that is currently restricted due to potential rockfall hazard. The
      site is located at 2991 E Banded Hills Drive. This would affect only Lot 3 of the Banded Hills Subdivision.
      The property is currently zoned R-1-10 (Single Family Residential minimum 10,000 sq ft lot size). Case
      No. 2023-HS-005. (Staff – Mike Hadley)

   5. Moorland Park Phases 5 & 8 Preliminary Plat – Logan Blake, representing DSG Engineering is
      requesting approval of an amendment that will add an additional six (6) lots to the Moorland Park Phases
      3-9 Preliminary Plat. The property to be amended is 2.49 acres and is generally located north of the 2580
      east dead end at approximately 930 South. The property is zoned R-1-10 (Residential Single Family,
      10,000 sq ft minimum lot size). Case No. 2023-PP-018 (Staff – Dan Boles)

   6. Minutes
       Consider a request to approve the meeting minutes from the May 9, 2023, meeting.
   7. City Council Items

      Jim Bolser the Community Development Director will report on items heard at the May 18, 2023, City
      Council meeting.
      1. 2023-ZC-005 North St. George Plaza
      2. 2023-DA-001 Golf Cart Easement
      3. 2023-PP-015 Tonaquint Commercial
_____________________________________

Brenda Hatch – Development Office Supervisor

Reasonable Accommodation: The City of St. George will make efforts to provide reasonable accommodations to
disabled members of the public in accessing City programs. Please contact the City Human Resources Office at
(435) 627-4674 at least 24 hours in advance if you have special needs.
                                                                                      ITEM 1A
            Community Development                                                 Zone Change
PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA REPORT: 05/23/2023
ZONE CHANGE
Lin’s Market River Road
Case No. 2023-ZC-004

Project Name:          Lin’s Market River Road

Location:              The property is located on the west side of River Road between
                       approximately 2700 - 2900 South

Background:            This property has been the subject of at least two requests for a change in
                       General Plan designation. In 2019, a portion (approximately 2.85 acres) of
                       the southern end of the property was changed from FP (Flood Plain) and
                       MDR (Medium Density Residential) to COM (Commercial). In 2020, a
                       larger piece of the property was included in the request for a COM
                       designation which was eventually approved in 2022. In the end the entire
                       property (approximately 12.88 acres) was included in the Commercial land
                       use designation.

Current Project:       This is a request for a zone change on approximately 12.88 acres. The
                       zoning on the property is currently OS (Open Space) and A-20
                       (Agriculture 20 acre minimum lot size). The applicant is proposing to
                       change the zoning on the site, to PD-C (Planned Development
                       Commercial). They are also seeking review and approval of a grocery
                       store along with a use list for the development. Included are the site plan
                       showing the grocery store as well as pads for future development.
PC 2023-ZC-004
Lin’s Market River Road
Page 2

Acreage:                  Approximately 12.88 acres

Applicant/ Representative: AWA Engineering / Rick Magness

Current Zone:             OS (Open Space) & A-20 (Agriculture, 20 acre minimum lot size)

General Plan:             COM (Commercial)

Adjacent Zones:           North – PD-R (Planned Development Residential
                          South – OS (Open Space)
                          East – RE-12.5 (Residential Estates, 12,500 ft² minimum lot size, R-
                          1-10 (Residential, Single Family 10,000 ft² minimum lot size), A-20
                          (Agriculture, 20 acre minimum lot size), A-1 (Agriculture, 1 acre
                          minimum lot size).
                          West – OS (Open Space)

Site Plan:                The proposed conceptual site plan shows a single building being
                          proposed at this time which is situated on the northern portion of the
                          property adjacent to the Riverfront subdivision. The site plan also
                          depicts four pad buildings to be reviewed and approved in the future.
                          The pad buildings are located adjacent to River Road. There is a
                          parcel “a” which is also shown on the far south west corner of project.
                          This lot will not be built on as it’s in the floodway.

                          Access to the property will come exclusively from River Road. The
                          farthest south ingress/egress point (Quarry Ridge Dr) is shown as a
                          full access and will be integrated into the traffic lights at that
                          intersection. The Parking for the buildings is almost entirely
                          centralized and will be used in common. To the greatest extent
                          possible, each pad is parked but there will have to be a shared parking
                          agreement recorded on the property to allow cross parking as required
                          in the zoning code.

Buildings:                For the purposes of this application, Planning Commission will be
                          reviewing the zoning on the entire property. As far as the buildings
                          go, the only one under review is the grocery store building. That
                          building is approximately 35’6” to the highest point. The standard for
                          a building in the PD-C zone is 50’, with which the proposed building
                          is in compliance.

                          The building is just shy of 71,000 ft². The applicant is proposing a
                          variety of materials such as cultured stone, stucco, aluminum store
                          fronts, and concrete masonry.
PC 2023-ZC-004
Lin’s Market River Road
Page 3

Parking:                      The applicant provided the following information regarding parking:

                  Building     Sq Ft              Use                  Ratio     Required    Total
                  Lot 1      71,000    Grocery Store               1:250           295        295
                  Lot 2      3,700     Bank                        1:250            15        15
                  Lot 3      4,490     Multi-tenant / Restaurant   1:100/1:250     9+22       31
                  Lot 4      4,860     Multi-tenant / Restaurant   1:100/1:250    10+25       35
                  Lot 5      6,133     Multi-tenant / Restaurant   1:100/1:250    13+31       44

                                                                                 Total:       420
                                                                                 Provided:    429

                              The majority of the parking is in the center of the site surrounded by
                              the grocery store and the pad buildings. This lends itself well to the
                              ability for these buildings share the parking amongst themselves. That
                              said, the applicant has also tried to include as much parking on the
                              site possible.

                              Staff reviewed the parking as a single project (grocery store), as a
                              phase but also as a whole project and believe that the applicant has
                              parked the site adequately and according to the city parking ordinance
                              requirements.

Landscaping:                  City Code requires 15’ average along the public street, as well as 5%
                              of the parking lot. That can be an average but may not be less than six
                              feet in width. It appears that they will be able to meet both of those
                              standards though they will need to provide staff with exact
                              measurements during the site plan phase of the application.

                              The applicant is also providing a buffer between the property to the
                              south and the north. They are showing a conceptual landscape plan
                              that will landscape the property between the proposed grocery store
                              and the Riverfront subdivision on the north. A six foot tall masonry
                              wall with ten feet of landscaping will be required on the north
                              property line.

Uses:                         The applicant has provided a use list to be approved as part of this
                              zone change application. That use list has been pared down as much
                              as possible though the Planning Commission should review the use
                              list and make comments as needed.

Signs:                        Signs will be reviewed and approved as part of future application.
PC 2023-ZC-004
Lin’s Market River Road
Page 4

Planning Comments:          Staff recommends approval of the application with consideration of
                            the following comments:

                            1. Roadway(s) - The developer will be responsible for installing
                               roadway improvements as necessary along River Road as
                               determined by the city engineer.

                            2. Design – Conceptual building elevations, colors, and materials
                               have been provided for review and discussion.

                            3. SPR – Future site plan review applications and plans shall be
                               submitted and approved by staff. A site plan application will need
                               to be submitted prior to construction on the site.

                            4. Phasing – Approvals for the pad sites will need to be reviewed in
                               future Planned Development amendment applications.

                            5. Lighting – A full photometric plan will be required to accompany
                               the site plan.

                            6. Landscaping - With the submittal of a site plan application, a full
                               landscape and irrigation plan will be required. A conceptual
                               landscape plan has been submitted for initial review and attached
                               to this staff report.

                            7. Buildings – Elevations and a rendering of the buildings have been
                               submitted and attached to this staff report.

Department Comments:

       Sewer/Water
              1. No comments were received from sewer or water.
       Power
              1. No comments were received from the power department.
       Engineering
              1. The farthest north point of entry should be reduced to right in and right out.
       Parks
              1. Parks did not have any comments on this project.
       Fire
              1. No comments on this application.
       Planning
              1. Buildings on lots 2-5 will need to pursue a PD amendment to approve elevations.
              2. A block wall and 10 foot landscape buffer is required on the northern border of
                 the site.
              3. The roof is to be a neutral color and not white.
              4. A shared parking agreement, consistent with section 10-19-7 of the St. George
                 city code.
PC 2023-ZC-004
Lin’s Market River Road
Page 5

Alternatives:
      1. Recommend approval as presented.
      2. Recommend approval with conditions.
      3. Recommend denial.
      4. Continue the proposed zone change to a specific date.

Possible Motion:
“I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for the zone change from
OS (Open Space) & A-20 (Agriculture, 20 acre minimum lot size) to PD-C (Planned Development
Commercial) as presented including the proposed use list, case no. 202-ZC-004, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions and comments listed in the staff report (and as modified by
the following comments and conditions…)”

Findings for Approval:
      1. The proposed zoning is consistent with the general plan designations on the property.
      2. There will be adequate parking on site to facilitate the development.
      3. That approval of the zoning map amendment is in the best interest of the health, safety
          and welfare of the citizens of St. George.
PC 2023-ZC-004
Lin’s Market River Road
Page 6

                                 Exhibit A
                          Applicant’s Narrative &
                              PD-C Use List
                                                                                CJM Limited Liability LP
                                                                               10780 W State Street #252
                                                                                      Star, Idaho 83669


St. George City
Via email to: cdapps@sgcity.org

To Whom it May Concern,

CJM LLLP (“CJM”) respectfully submits the following development narrative for Parcel Number
SG-5-3-9-4302 as part of a request to re-zone that parcel from Open Space to a Planned
Commercial Development. Below you will find the written narrative detailing, to the extent
known today, the plans for the development after re-zoning. On Exhibit A, please find a detailed
list of proposed uses. This list was developed based on demand seen in other shopping centers
anchored by a store with the same concept, and also takes into account permitted uses per local
code. Also submitted, as Exhibit B, for visual reference is a conceptual site plan.

Background: CJM is a small, family-owned development group whose operations span a 5-state
area including Colorado, Wyoming, and Nevada, but whose development is primarily
concentrated in Southern Idaho and Utah. The typical CJM development is anchored by a 40,000-
65,000 square foot building with a grocery store, hardware store, pharmacy, and quick service
restaurant with a drive-thru. CJM has an affiliated company that operates these stores, which
means CJM remains invested and a long-term part of the surrounding community.

Proposed Development:
First and foremost, CJM’s proposal at this location would involve the same anchor concept.
Roughly 70% of the store space would be used for grocery, operating under a name brand
familiar to residents of St. George. Roughly 20% would be a hardware store, partnering with a
well-known national brand. The remaining 10% would be comprised of a mix of retail pharmacy
and quick service food option(s). As shown on the site plan, this anchor building would be
positioned in the northwest corner of the lot.

Once parking, water detention, and landscaping requirements were met, CJM would seek to
develop the remaining land as pad sites with both single-user and multi-tenant buildings,
depending on tenant availability and interest. Common uses of these pad sites in other similar
CJM centers are quick service restaurants with drive-thrus, dine-in restaurants, banks/credit
unions, auto parts/tire retail, hair/nail salons, dentist/orthodontist offices, full-service tunnel car
washes, tax/financial services, and fuel stations, to name a few.

Ultimately, the goal is to fill offering gaps in the surrounding community. Some of that occurs
naturally as tenants approach CJM looking to lease space. In other instances, CJM will take a
more active role to recruit certain offerings that would be a good fit. When fully developed, the
center should bring a variety of services and offerings to this otherwise densely-populated
residential area.

We hope we are able to get local support on this needed re-zone to make this land productive for
both us and the community as well as have positive impacts on the continued growth and
vibrancy of the area immediately surrounding this parcel.

Warm regards,




July 26, 2022
                   EXHIBIT A – PROPOSED ALLOWABLE FUTURE USES

As noted in the Narrative, no uses are currently set in stone other than grocery, hardware,
pharmacy, and quick service restaurants. In the interest of maintaining flexibility and bringing the
best mix of uses possible, CJM proposes the ability to have the following uses on the property, all
of which are permitted or conditional in C-2 or C-3 Zones (as defined in the St. George City
Code).:

Animal hospital
Antique store
Auto part sales
Building material sales (ancillary to a primary use)
Catering establishment
City facility
Communication transmission
Convenience store with gas
Counseling center
Department store
Educational institution
Fence sales/service (ancillary to a primary use)
Furniture/appliance sales
Garden supplies and plants (ancillary to a primary use)
Greenhouse/nursery (ancillary to a primary use)
Gunsmith
Landscaping material sales (ancillary to a primary use)
Locksmith
Microbrewery/pub with food
Office
Office supply sales
Off-premises beer retail
Permanent cosmetics
Personal care services
Personal instruction services
Pet grooming
Printing shop
Restaurant
Sporting goods store
Supermarket
Thrift shop
Veterinary clinic




July 26, 2022
PC 2023-ZC-004
Lin’s Market River Road
Page 7

                                Exhibit B
                          PowerPoint Presentation
Lin’s Market
River Road
2023-ZC-004
Aerial Map
Land Use Map
Zoning Map
Proposed Site Plan
Parking
Landscaping
Elevations
Rendering
Materials Board
                                                                                          Item 1B
            Community Development                                                Preliminary Plat

PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA REPORT:                          05/23/2023

Preliminary Plat
Ridley’s St. George Commercial Preliminary Plat
Case No. 2023-PP-019

Request:                      The applicant is requesting approval of a preliminary plat to divide
                              the property into five lots and one parcel in order provide
                              individual pads for the proposed development. Though this plat is
                              named Ridley’s it is associated with the request for Lin’s.

Representative:               Rick Magness (AWA Engineering)

Parcel Number:                SG-5-3-9-4302

Location:                     The property is located on the west side of River Road between
                              approximately 2700 - 2900 South

Total Acreage:                Approximately 12.88 acres

Existing Zoning:              A-20 (Agriculture, 20 acre minimum lot size) and OS (Open
                              Space) – Proposed PD-C (Planned Development Commercial)
PC 2023-ZC-019
Ridley’s St. George Commercial Preliminary Plat
Page 2 of 4

General Plan:               COM (Commercial)

Adjacent zones:             North – PD-R (Planned Development Residential
                            South – OS (Open Space)
                            East – RE-12.5 (Residential Estates, 12,500 ft² minimum lot size,
                            R-1-10 (Residential, Single Family 10,000 ft² minimum lot size),
                            A-20 (Agriculture, 20 acre minimum lot size), A-1 (Agriculture, 1
                            acre minimum lot size).
                            West – OS (Open Space)

Background & Analysis:      In conjunction with this application for a preliminary plat, the
                            Planning Commission heard a request to amend zoning map to a
                            PD-C zone to allow a grocery store and development pads.

                            The proposed plat shows that there are five building pads (the main
                            grocery store structure on lot one and four surrounding pads
                            adjacent to River Road). To the greatest extent possible, the
                            applicant has tried to design parking to be exclusively on the each
                            pad but there will be some shared parking necessary. As such a
                            shared parking agreement will be necessary to be recorded against
                            all lots in conjunction with this plat.

                            The pads range in size from approximately 8.16 acres for the
                            grocery store lot and approximately 30,808 ft² on the smallest end.
                            Parcel ‘A’ is in the 100 year flood zone and will not be buildable.
                            As such it is labeled as a parcel and not a lot.

Recommendation:             Staff recommends approval of this preliminary plat.

Alternatives:               1. Recommend approval as presented.
                            2. Recommend denial.
                            3. Continue the proposed preliminary plat into the future.

Sample Motion:              I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
                            Council for the Ridley’s St. George Commercial Preliminary Plat
                            request, application number 2023-PP-019, based on the findings
                            noted in the staff report.

Possible Findings:          1. That the plat is consistent with and compliant to the zoning on
                            the property.
                            2. That the plat will not leave any remnant property unaccounted
                            for.
                            3. That development in the plat is consistent with the PD
                            amendment previously proposed by the applicant.
PC 2023-ZC-019
Ridley’s St. George Commercial Preliminary Plat
Page 3 of 4

                                    Zoning Map




                                  Land Use Map
PC 2023-ZC-019
Ridley’s St. George Commercial Preliminary Plat
Page 4 of 4

                                    Presentation
Ridley’s St.
George
Commercial
Subdivision
2023-PP-019
Aerial Map
Land Use Map
Zoning Map
Preliminary Plat
Preliminary Plat (All Layers)
Preliminary Plat (All Layers)
Site Plan
                                                                                     Item 2
            Community Development                                               Zone Change
PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA REPORT: 05/23/2023

                              Tonaquint Heights Ph. 4-7
                         Zone Change (Case No. 2023-ZC-003)
                              Consider approval of an ordinance changing the zoning from
                              R-1-40 (Single Family Residential minimum 40,000 sq ft lot
         Request:             size) and M & G (Mining & Grazing) to R-1-20 (Single
                              Family Residential 20,000 sq ft minimum lot size) on 74.098
                              acres for the purpose of constructing 75 single family homes.
        Applicant:            Utah State Trust Lands C/O Quality Development LLC
      Representative:         Logan Blake
         Location:            South of the existing Tonaquint Terrace subdivision.

   Existing General Plan:     LDR (Low Density Residential)
                              R-1-20 (Single Family Residential, minimum lot size 20,000
     Proposed Zoning:
                              sf).
                              R-1-40 (Single Family Residential, minimum lot size 40,000
     Existing Zoning:
                              sf) & M & G (Mining & Grazing).
        Land Area:            Approximately 74.098 acres


                               Location of
                                 Zone
                                Change
PC 2023-ZC-003
Tonaquint Heights Ph.4-7
Page 2 of 4

BACKGROUND:
This application is to change the Zone from R-1-40 (Single Family Residential 40,000 sq ft
minimum lot size) and M&G (Mining & Grazing) to R-1-20 (Single Family Residential 20,000 sq
ft minimum lot size) to build 75 single family residential lots for a density of 0.79 units per acre.
In May of 2006 the General Plan was changed from OS (Open Space) to VLDR (Very Low Density
Residential) and zoned R-1-40 (Single Family Residential 40,000 sq ft minimum lot size) there
was also a site plan for the Tonaquint Heights development. Tonaquint Heights Phases 1-3 have
been built.

On May 4th of this year there was a General Plan Amendment that changed the General Plan from
VLDR (Very Low Density Residential) to LDR (Low Density Residential). The reason for this
change and for the proposed zoning change is the city code was updated in 2019. With the changes
to the code phases 4-7 of Tonaquint Heights could not comply. The applicant is requesting to
change the zone to finish Tonaquint Heights Ph. 4-7. The site plan has been updated and is in the
packet. The zoning to the north is R-1-10 & M&G, south is Open Space, to the east is Open Space
and to the west is Open Space.

RECOMMENDATION:
Staff recommend approval of the zone change.

ALTERNATIVES:
  1. Recommend approval of this Zone Change.
  2. Recommend denial of this Zone Change.
  3. Table the proposed Zone Change to a specific date.

POSSIBLE MOTION:
The Planning Commission recommends approval to the City Council for the Zone Change for
Tonaquint Heights Ph. 4-7.

FINDINGS FOR APPROVAL:
   1. The proposed land-uses are compatible with the surrounding land uses in this area.
   2. This zone change will not be harmful to the health, safety and general welfare of residents
      and businesses in the area.
PC 2023-ZC-003
Tonaquint Heights Ph.4-7
Page 3 of 4


                           Narrative
PC 2023-ZC-003
Tonaquint Heights Ph.4-7
Page 4 of 4
                                                                               ITEM 3a
        Community Development                                       ZONE CHANGE

PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA REPORT:                            05/23/2023
PD Amendment
Circolo Villas (Divario PA-1)
Case No. 2023-PDA-004

Request:                    Consider a PD amendment to the previously approved Divario
                            Planning Area PA-1 Multi-Family Project PD (Planned
                            Development).

Applicant:                  RDG, LLC

Representative:             Grey Garza

Area:                       34.27 Acres

Location:                   The property is generally located south-east of the Gap Canyon
                            Pkwy and 1790 West intersection.




                           Subject
                           Property
2|Page
PC 2023-PDA-004
Circolo Villas (Divario PA-1)

Current Zone:                   PD-R (Planned Development Residential)

General Plan:                   MDR (Medium Density Residential), OS (Open Space)

Divario Land Use Plan:          High Density (up to 15 units per acre)

Background:
The property was annexed as part of the Plantations Land in 1994. A PD (Planned Development)
was approved on at least two separate occasions, but upon failure to construct, expired and
reverted back the R-1-10 zoning (current zoning). In 2007, a development agreement was
approved between the developer and the city. The development at the time was called “The
Lakes”. The name has since changed to “Divario”. An updated development agreement was
approved in 2014 which sets forth the parameters of the development, planning areas, etc.

Under the Development Agreement, PA-1 was approved as a development area consisting of
28.09 acres with density of up to 15 units per acre (maximum 421 residential units).

In 2021, Planning Commission and City Council both voted unanimously to approve a zone
change on the property from R-1-10 to PD-R through Ordinance 2021-08-010. The proposed
Planned Development was for 500 residential units over 34.24 acres both of which were in
excess of what the Development Agreement allowed.

The Development Agreement, Section 13.B.i allows the Master Developer, Divario to transfer or
shift units from one planning area to another planning area “…provided that the overall
maximum density for the Planned Community is not exceeded, and provided that the maximum
density in any one Planning Area does not exceed the maximum density permitted in any given
Planning Area in the Master Plan…” The master developer has transferred 43 units of density
from PA-12 (Varano Vista) which had an excess of 103 units to PA-1 bringing the total number
of units in PA-1 to 464.

Of the 34.24 acres which were part of the PD-R zone approval, 3.43 acres are designated as
unimproved open space which must be dedicated to the City. It cannot be counted as
development acreage when calculating density. Of the remaining density, (30.81 acres) some
(approx. 2 acres) was to be used for the completion of Gap Canyon Drive, leaving a development
parcel of 28.09 acres. If the open space land is removed and the remaining 30.81 acres is used to
calculate the density of the proposed project (464 units) the overall density would be 15.06 units
per acre which is just above the allowed 15 units per acre. If only the 28.09 acres for the planned
area is used to calculate the overall density of 464 units, the density would be 16.5 units per acre
which is in excess of the maximum allowed 15 units per acre and is in excess of the density
allowed in any other planning area. It is typical to use acreage including roadways to calculate
density.

With each project or plat within the Divario Development, the Master Developer is supposed to
provide an overall unit count to track the number of units which have been approved or platted.
The current unit count is:
3|Page
PC 2023-PDA-004
Circolo Villas (Divario PA-1)

Approved units:   1550
Platted units:     503
Maximum number of units allowed: 3196

If this project is approved at 464 units, it will bring the approved unit count to 2014 units.

Proposed Site Details:
The site is free from any buildings but is adjacent to property that has been used as a gravel
extraction site for many years and was rezoned for residential and commercial uses (Grand
Views at Green Valley). It is also directly south of the Las Palmas Resort. That said, the bulk of
the property is not adjacent to existing development. Finally, and very importantly, the Divario
development agreement land use map (Exhibit B) depicts an area 3.43 acres in area that makes
up the northern portion of this property which is to be left completely undisturbed and as
described above may not be counted toward the density of the project.

The proposed site plan illustrates essentially two distinct areas, a townhome development, and a
stacked apartment development. The site plan depicts 20 townhome buildings with a total of 92
units. The site plan also depicts 14, 24-plex apartment buildings for a total of 336 units and one
36-plex building. In all, the applicant is proposing 464 units, down from the 500 units previously
approved.

The General Plan calls for open space on the northern portion of the property adjacent to Las
Palmas which they are complying with. More is said about Hillside requirements below.

Parking: Under section 10-19-4(A)(4) of the St. George zoning code, each unit is required to
provide two parking stalls, one of which must be covered, plus one stall for every three units for
guest parking. With 464 units, this would yield a total requirement of 1,083 stalls
(2x464=928+155 guest stalls). 464 of the stalls must be covered (garages may be included). All
covered stalls will need to be identified on the final site plan. The site provides a total of 1,274
stalls which meets the requirement for both resident and guest parking. A breakdown of the
parking can be found on the submitted site plan.

Access: The site shows access onto Sky Rocket Drive. The Fire Department has reviewed the
access and has approved it with one exception. They require a second access into the townhome
phase which they are showing stubbing to the master-planned road to the east. Until that road is
built, the applicant needs to provide a second access onto Sky Rocket Road to satisfy the Fire
Department. Staff has spoken with the applicant about potentially eliminating the far north-east
townhome building to provide access until such a time that they can connect to the preferred road
to the east. Timing on that road is unknown at this time.

Elevations: There are two proposed styles of buildings. The first is a stacked apartment building;
fourteen 24-plex and one 36-plex. This building is three/four-story building and is 39’ tall, from

average finished grade to the top of the coping, which complies with the standards found in the
code which sets the maximum height at 40’ in a PDR. The materials to be used are varying
4|Page
PC 2023-PDA-004
Circolo Villas (Divario PA-1)

colors of stucco, stone, and brick. The materials and colors have been chosen to complement
each other. One of the primary reasons for this amendment is to alter the architecture of the
building and to use the building itself as retaining since there is significant slope on the property.
In doing so, one side will be three stories while the other side will be four. The first story are the
garages. Each 24-plex will have 12 garages and the 36-plex will have 18 garages.

The townhomes are proposed to be two, three, and five-plex and will be made of similar
materials and colors. The townhomes will also be slightly shorter at 36’ tall, also complying with
the height requirements for the PD-R zoning.

Landscaping/Amenities: The site is required to maintain a minimum of 30% landscaping/open
space. The site has been designed with 40% formal landscaping and to be clear, the site is not
allowed to count the open, undisturbed areas shown on the Divario Exhibit ‘B’ as non-
disturbable, 3.44-acre open space parcel. Additionally, a multi-family development must provide
usable recreation areas, in this case at least 92,800 sq ft. The applicant is indicating over 484,702
sq ft of open space with approximately 106,350 sq ft usable amenity area. The site depicts a
perimeter trail, three playgrounds, three dog parks, four pickleball courts, eighty BBQ areas, one
pool and a clubhouse. The details on all of the amenities and landscaping will be reviewed at the
time of site plan but are noted on the site plan.

Hillside Review: The entire Divario site was reviewed by the Hillside Review Board (HSRB) as
part of the initial approvals. In so doing, the Board designated some areas as okay to develop,
some that needed further review in the future and some that would be okay to develop if they
weren’t encroaching into 20% or greater slope. PA 1 falls into the third category. There are some
areas greater than 20% which have been designated manmade and exempt slope area on the
property which the applicant will encroach into otherwise the applicant is keeping out of the 20%
slope area and therefore will not need further review by the HSRB. (See Hillside Exhibit in
presentation).

Staff Comments: From the beginning, staff has had a concern about the project’s scale especially
in relation to the other projects in the area. This revision decreases the number of units from the
previous approval which is a good direction. Though this project will likely have less direct
impact on existing development than some of the other recently proposed planning areas, there is
still an impact to the road system in the area. That said, this particular project has the benefit of
being at the intersection of Gap Canyon Pkwy and Sky Rocket Road. Sky Rocket will take a bulk
of people directly to Dixie Drive and Gap Canyon will take traffic to the south once it is
completed.

Recommendation:
If the Planning Commission finds that the proposed development is consistent and blends well
with its surroundings, staff recommends approval of this Zone Change and PD plan as proposed
with the following conditions:
        1. That a site plan is submitted for approval prior to any construction on the site.
        2. That covered parking is provided in accordance with St. George city code.
5|Page
PC 2023-PDA-004
Circolo Villas (Divario PA-1)

       3. That a second access from the townhomes onto Sky Rocket Road is provided until
          such a time that access can be provided to the master-planned road to the east even if
          the far north-east building has to be eliminated to do so.
       4. That consistent with §10-7G-2(C) of the City Code a final plat and/or final
          construction drawings must be approved within one (1) year of this approval. Failure
          to obtain a final approved plat within the required time period shall result in the zone
          change and this approval to be vacated and rendered null and void.

Alternatives:
      1. Recommend approval as presented.
      2. Recommend approval with conditions.
      3. Recommend denial.
      4. Table the proposed PD amendment to a specific date.

Possible Motion: “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City Council for
the PD amendment for Circolo Villas as presented, case no. 2023-PDA-004, based on the
findings and subject to the conditions listed in the staff report.”

Findings for Approval:
      1. That a PD (Planned Development) amendment application was filed by the applicant
          in accordance with St. George city code.
      2. Sky Rocket Road will connect the site directly to Dixie Drive, alleviating some traffic
          concerns on Gap Canyon Pkwy and Canyon View Drive.
      3. Based upon an acreage of 30.81 acres, the overall density meets the requirements of
          the Divario master plan of 15 units per acre.
      4. The amendment reduces the number of units on the site.
      5. The amendment complies with the open space requirement of the development
          agreement and the code.
      6. That approval of the PD amendment is in the best interest of the health, safety and
          welfare of the citizens of St. George.
6|Page
PC 2023-PDA-004
Circolo Villas (Divario PA-1)



                                     EXHIBIT A

                                APPLICANT NARRATIVE
                                 Letter of Intent

Property:

Circolo Villas
Divario PA-1 St. George UT



To Whom it May Concern,
     The Rich Day Group is requesting a modification to the originally approved Zone
Change received on August 19, 2021. RDG has been working with staff over the
course of the past several months. Both RDG and the City has come forward with the
amendments. Staff approached us early following the original approval on a traffic
master plan amendment that would have an immediate impact to the original site
plan presented with our original application. The proposed road adjustment would
push into our southern boundary and take 30’ of property to accommodate the City.

      Needless to say, this caused us great grief and it took a full-scale effort to
reevaluate the entire property. In hindsight, this allowed us to revisit grades,
amenities, and the overall functionality of the project. Going through some of the
proposed changes, the following is a list of the highlights:
      - Apartment Architectural Style - The previous design had the buildings pushed
out to the perimeter of the property, requiring massive retaining walls. The new
design afforded us to utilize the existing slopes of the property. By pushing the
buildings into the hillside, we were able to dramatically reduce the amount of
retaining walls, while also incorporating tuck-under garages in many of the units as
well as preserving the natural topography of the property.
      - Upgraded Amenity Package - The original amenity package included
Playgrounds, Dog Runs, Pickle Ball Courts, and Wide Trails. This new design allowed
us to add a Residential Service building, Clubhouse, & Pool. The additional amenities
will rival many luxury resorts in the area.
      - Improved Functionality and Conservation - The proposed overall development
density has been reduced by 37 units. This allows for a more spacious design and an
overall improved “flow” of the project. This proposal offers a much larger Open
Space square footage than required by code. Keeping Utah’s water conservation in
mind, we plan to lead with Xeriscape, allowing our residents to have functional space
for animals and other outdoors activities.
Best Regards,



Mark Garza

Project Manager

2262 S 1200 W, Suite 103

Woods Cross, UT 84087
7|Page
PC 2023-PDA-004
Circolo Villas (Divario PA-1)



                                EXHIBIT B

                         POWERPOINT PRESENTATION
Circolo Villas (Divario PA-1)
           2023-PDA-004
Aerial Map
Land Use Map (General Plan)
Zoning Map
Divario Land Use Map (Exhibit B)
Divario Land Use Map (Exhibit B)
Divario Hillside Map
Previously Approved Site Plan
Proposed Site Plan
Previously Approved Elevations
Proposed Elevations 24 Plex
Proposed Elevations 24 Plex
Proposed Elevations 36 Plex
Proposed Elevations - Townhomes
Proposed Elevations – Townhomes 5 Plex
Landscape Plan
Materials Boards
Materials Boards
Materials Boards
8|Page
PC 2023-PDA-004
Circolo Villas (Divario PA-1)



                                     EXHIBIT C

                                LETTERS FROM PUBLIC
                                                                                     Daniel Boles <daniel.boles@sgcity.org>



Circolo villas case # 2023-PDA-004
Kathryn Crawford <athykcraw@icloud.com>                                                           Tue, May 16, 2023 at 7:04 AM
To: dan.boles@sgcity.org

 Hello I can not make the planned meeting on May 23,2023 but I’d like some information if you can give it to me please.
 I’ve read as much as I can find which isn’t a lot. We currently own property in las Palmas building 21 and this will be in our
 back yard. I would love to know what will be in between Las Palmas property and the actual buildings or asphalt or
 cement and how many yards will there be between us! How tall will the buildings be that will butt up against las Palmas?
 Will our view be blocked from the dessert and be greeted by cement walls?! How much noise will replace the frogs and
 coyotes we wake up to and go to sleep to? Will the trails etc be available for us to use? Are there plans to reduce noise
 and dust from coming into our places? Clean up of our balconies and duct cleaning when project is finished?!
 If you could get answers to these concerns I know many of us would be very grateful? I’ve sent concerns in before with
 no response ! Please contact me !!!
 Thank you
 Kathy Crawford
 801-369-4011


 Sent from my iPhone
                                                                                      Item 3b
            Community Development                                             Preliminary Plat


PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA REPORT: 05/23/2023
PRELIMINARY PLAT
Circolo Villas Preliminary Plat
Case No. 2023-ZC-011

Request:                      The applicant is requesting approval of a three lot, preliminary
                              plat.

Representative:               Grey Garza (RDG, LLC)

Parcel Number:                SG-6-2-35-3002

Location:                     The property is generally located south-east of the Gap Canyon
                              Pkwy and 1790 West intersection.




Total Acreage:                Approximately 34.26 acres

Existing Zoning:              PD-R (Planned Development Residential)
PC 2023-ZC-011
Circolo Villas Preliminary Plat
Page 2 of 4


General Plan:                MDR (Medium Density Residential) & OS (Open Space).

Adjacent zones:              North & East – PD-R (Planned Development Residential)
                             West – R-1-10 (Single Family Residential, 10,000 sq ft minimum
                             lot size)
                             South – No zoning - County

Background & Analysis:       This application for a preliminary plat is intended to accompany
                             the PDA (Planned Development Amendment) for Circolo Villas.
                             This property has not been properly subdivided but this application
                             will take care of that by creating three legal lots.

                             The Circolo Villas project will be a “for rent” product which
                             doesn’t require each individual building to be subdivided.
                             However, the buildings do need to be situated on legally created
                             lots. This preliminary plat will divide the property into three
                             legally created lots, one north/west of Sky Rocket Road, one
                             south/east of the road. The third will be the townhomes. It will also
                             allow the applicant to dedicate the 3.43 acres on the north end of
                             the property to the city. At this point, it is not contemplated that the
                             property owner will divide it any further.

Recommendation:              Staff recommends approval of this preliminary plat.

Alternatives:                1. Recommend approval as presented.
                             2. Recommend denial.
                             3. Continue the proposed preliminary plat to a specific date.
                             4. Continue the proposed preliminary plat to an unspecified date
                             with specific conditions.

Sample Motion:               I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
                             Council for the Circolo Villas Preliminary Plat request, application
                             number 2023-PP-011, based on the findings noted in the staff
                             report.

Possible Findings:           1. That the plat is consistent with and compliant to the zoning on
                             the property.
                             2. That the plat will not leave any remnant property unaccounted
                             for.
                             3. That development in the area to is consistent with the proposed
                             preliminary plat.
PC 2023-ZC-011
Circolo Villas Preliminary Plat
Page 3 of 4

                                    Zoning Map




                                  General Plan Map
PC 2023-ZC-011
Circolo Villas Preliminary Plat
Page 4 of 4

                                  Presentation
Circolo Villas
Preliminary Plat
2023-PP-011
Vicinity Map
Land Use Map
Zoning Map
Preliminary Plat
PD Plan
                                                                                              ITEM 4
            Community Development
                                                                                     Hillside Permit

HILLSIDE REVIEW BOARD AGENDA REPORT:                                    04/26/2023
PLANNING COMMISSION:                                                    05/23/2023
HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
Banded Hills Lot 3
Case No. 2021-HS-005

Request:             This is a request for a Hillside Development Permit to allow development
                     on a portion of a single lot of an existing subdivision that is currently
                     restricted due to potential rockfall hazard. This would affect only Lot 3 of
                     Banded Hills subdivision.

Hillside History:    In 2018, a hillside permit was granted to allow an eleven-lot subdivision to be
                     created (Banded Hills). The following year, another hillside permit was
                     granted to add a 12th lot to the subdivision. Part of the approval of the hillside
                     permit was that, due to the potential for rock fall from adjacent hillside, no
                     building would be permitted adjacent to Banded Hills Drive on lots 1-7 and a
                     portion of lot 8.

Exhibits Provided:   1) Exhibit A – AGEC Letter Dated October 13, 2022.
                     “Exhibit A” – This is a letter provided by the applicant from Applied
                     Geotechnical Engineering Consultants, Inc. (AGEC) recommending a
                     reduction in setback.

                     2) Exhibit B – Rock Fall Study dated February 05, 2018
                     “Exhibit B” – This report outlined the possible geologic hazards in the area and
                     how that may affect the subject property.

                     3) Exhibit C – AGEC Report dated February 23, 2018
                     “Exhibit C” is the study produced by AGEC on February 13, 2018.

                     4) Exhibit D – Staff Report dated April 18, 2018
                     “Exhibit D” is the staff report for the original request for hillside development
                     permit. This was included for historical context only.

                     5) Exhibit E – Recorded Banded Hills Subdivision Plat
                     “Exhibit E” is the official plat that was recorded at the Washington County
                     Recorders office on October 29, 2019.

Proposal:            The applicant’s desire is to be able to build a home on lot three that encroaches
                     into the current area that is labeled as non-buildable.. If the request for a hillside
                     development permit is granted, the applicant will need to submit an amended
                     plat to adjust the boundary of the no build area.
PC 2023-HS-005
Banded Hills Lot 3
Page 2


Owner:               Aaron &Heather O Brien

Applicant:           Split Rock Custom Homes

APN:                 SG-BAN-3

Location:            2991 E Banded Hills Drive

Acreage:             41,241 sq ft (0.94 acres)

Zoning:              R-1-10 (single-family residential, 10,000 sq ft minimum lot size)

Adjacent zones:      The property is surrounded by R-1-10 zoning with the exception of the
                     property to the north-west which is zoned OS (open space).


Powers & Duties:     Section 10-13A-8(B) of the city code states:

                     Powers and Duties: The Hillside Review Board shall have the following
                     responsibilities:

                            1. Review proposed development within the hillside development
                     overlay zone or in a high category rockfall area and make a
                     recommendation to the planning commission to adopt, modify, or reject a
                     proposal.
                            2. Provide advice and support as needed to the city staff, planning
                     commission and city council in connection with reviewing requests for zone
                     changes or other development applications within the hillside development
                     overlay zone or in a high category rockfall area.

Permit required:     Section 10-13A-7 states:

                     For developments on a development parcel of more than one (1) acre
                     containing slopes greater than twenty percent (20%) or in a rockfall hazard
                     area, certification by a Utah registered engineer that the development has
                     been completed in compliance with the approved HDOZ permit, including
                     satisfaction of any conditions contained in the permit, is required. The
                     improvements required by the HDOZ permit are essential for the life, health
                     and safety of the future users and occupants of the property. All essential
                     improvements shall be completed prior to approval of permanent electric
                     power service. Failure to complete all essential improvements shall result
                     in the suspension of the building permit. The financial assurance shall not
                     be released until such certification has been received by the city engineer
                     or designee of satisfaction of all conditions contained in the permit.
PC 2023-HS-005
Banded Hills Lot 3
Page 3

Hillside:                   The Hillside committee recommend approval with no conditions

PC Motion Options:          The Planning Commission can recommend several different options
                            to the City Council:

                            1. Denial
                            2. Approval as presented
                            3. Approval with specific conditions and comments added as
                               required.

Example Motion:      I move we forward a positive/negative recommendation to the City Council
                     for the revision of the hillside permit for Banded Hills Lot 3 as
                     recommended by the Hillside Review Board with the finding that the
                     applicant has mitigated the rock fall hazard.



                                     Vicinity Map
PC 2023-HS-005
Banded Hills Lot 3
Page 4



                     General Plan – MDR




                       Zoning - R-1-10
PC 2023-HS-005
Banded Hills Lot 3
Page 5

                     Exhibit A
PC 2023-HS-005
Banded Hills Lot 3
Page 6

                     Exhibit B
PC 2023-HS-005
Banded Hills Lot 3
Page 7

                     Exhibit C
PC 2023-HS-005
Banded Hills Lot 3
Page 8

                     Exhibit D
PC 2023-HS-005
Banded Hills Lot 3
Page 9

                     Exhibit E
Exhibit A
Exhibit B
                                                                               SITE




  EXPLANATION OF SYMBOLS AND GEOLOGIC UNITS IN AREA OF                                From Hayden and Willis (2011)
                    PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT

  Qmt   -   Quartenary talus deposits - sand, gravel, cobbles and boulders.

  Tcs
  R     -   Triassic Shinarump Conglomerate Member of the Chinle
            Formation - sandstone and conglomerate.

  Tmu
  R     -   Triassic upper red member of the Moenkopi Formation -
            interbedded sandstone and siltstone.

  Tms
  R     -   Triassic Shnabkaib Member of the Moenkopi Formation -
            siltstone.                                                   0         600         1200 feet
            Contact between geologic units.                                   Approximate Scale
            Normal fault, bar and ball on down thrown side.
   17       Strike and dip of bedding.
                                                     PROPOSED BANDED HILLS SUBDIVISION
                                                            BANDED HILLS DRIVE
                                                             ST. GEORGE, UTAH


2172453                        Geologic Map                                                          Figure 1
          LEGEND:
                    Rockfall Hazard Area
                    Normal fault, bar and ball on down dropped side.




                                                                           PROPOSED BANDED HILLS SUBDIVISION
                                                                                  BANDED HILLS DRIVE
                                                                                   ST. GEORGE, UTAH
      0          200         400 feet
           Approximate Scale

2172453                                 Geologic - Rockfall Hazard Areas                                       Figure 2
Exhibit C
                                           TABLE OF CONTENTS


SUMMARY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 1

SCOPE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 3

SITE CONDITIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 3

FIELD STUDY . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 4

SUBSURFACE SOIL CONDITIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 4

SUBSURFACE WATER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 6

PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 6

RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 6
     A.  Site Grading . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 7
     B.  Foundations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 12
     C.  Concrete Slab-on-Grade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 14
     D.  Lateral Earth Pressures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 14
     E.  Seismicity, Liquefaction and Faulting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 16
     F.  Soil Corrosion . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 17
     G.  Pavement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 18
     H.  Construction Testing and Observations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 19
     I.  Geotechnical Recommendation Review . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 20

LIMITATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 20

FIGURES AND TABLES
      Vicinity Map                                                                                      Figure 1
      Site Plan                                                                                         Figure 2
      Logs, Legend and Notes of Test Pits                                                               Figure 3
      Consolidation Test Results                                                                        Figure 4
      Gradation and Moisture-Density Relationship                                                  Figures 5 - 7

        Summary of Laboratory Test Results                                                                Table 1




                Applied GeoTech                                                              Project No. 2172452
                                                                                            Page 1

                                          SUMMARY


1.   The subsurface profile observed within the test pits excavated generally consists of
     near surface silty sand to sandy silt overlying interbedded sandstone, shale and
     siltstone bedrock to the maximum depth investigated, approximately 4 feet. Practical
     excavator refusal was encountered on bedrock in each of the test pits at depths
     ranging from 1 to 4 feet below the existing grade. Stockpiles of fill were also
     observed on the south and west sides of the site.

2.   Groundwater was not encountered in test pits to the maximum depth investigated,
     approximately 4 feet below the existing grade. Fluctuations of groundwater levels
     may occur over time. An evaluation of such fluctuations over time is beyond the
     scope of this report.

3.   The site is suitable for the proposed construction provided recommendations within
     this report are followed.

4.   Laboratory testing and observations indicate the near surface soils exist in a loose
     condition. The underlying bedrock is relatively low to non plastic, moderately hard and
     suitable to support the proposed residences.

5.   The proposed residences may be supported on conventional spread and spot footings
     bearing on directly on the underlying bedrock or on properly compacted structural fill
     underlain by a properly prepared subgrade. Specifically, the subgrade should be
     prepared during site grading by removing the full depth of unsuitable, loose soils (½
     to 2 feet thick) as recommended in the Subgrade Preparation section of this report.
     The on-site natural soils, stockpiled fill and processed bedrock are suitable for use as
     structural fill provided they are properly moisture conditioned and compacted.

6.   If basements are constructed, a subdrain system should be placed around the
     perimeters of the basements due to the possible infiltration of surface water which
     could result after development. If the groundwater becomes present, the drain would
     be in-place to remove groundwater.

7.   The on-site soil and properly bedrock, free of organics, debris and material greater than
     6 inches in size, are suitable for use as site grading fill, structural fill, wall backfill and
     utility trench backfill. The bedrock should be processed such that the maximum
     particle size is 6 inches and at least 40 percent of the material passes the No. 4 sieve.

8.   This report does not address swimming pool support. Support of proposed pools
     should addressed with a lot specific subsurface investigation and report to provide
     pool support recommendations.




           Applied GeoTech                                                      Project No. 2172452
                                                                               Page 2


9.    Detailed recommendations for subgrade preparation, materials, foundations, and
      drainage are included in the report.

10.   The information provided in this summary should not be used independent of that
      provided within the body of this report.




           Applied GeoTech                                          Project No. 2172452
                                                                                       Page 3

SCOPE


This report presents the results of a geotechnical investigation for the proposed Banded Hills
Subdivision to be located in St. George, Utah, as shown in Figure 1. This report presents the
subsurface conditions encountered, laboratory test results, and recommendations for the
project. This report was prepared in general accordance with the Proposal for Professional
Geotechnical Services dated December 27, 2017 under Project No. 2172452.


Field exploration was conducted to obtain information on the subsurface conditions and to
obtain samples for laboratory testing. Information obtained from the field and laboratory was
used to define conditions at the site and to develop recommendations for the proposed
development.


This report has been prepared to summarize the data obtained during the study and to present
our conclusions and recommendations based on the proposed construction and the
subsurface conditions encountered. Design parameters and a discussion of geotechnical
engineering considerations related to construction are included in the report.




SITE CONDITIONS


The subject site consists of an approximately 4 acres of undeveloped hillside property located
on the south side of Little Valley in St. George, Utah as shown on Figure 2. The site consists
of an elevated plateau which overlooks Little Valley to the north. The north portion of the
site is relatively undisturbed and covered with sparse desert brush. The southern and west
portion of the site, which is adjacent to the old Airport Road (Banded Hills Drive), has been
partially graded and disturbed. This area of the site contains minimal vegetation, fill piles,
boulder piles and occasional large, naturally deposited boulders.


The site is bounded on the south and west by Banded Hills Drive on the east by undeveloped
hillside and on the north of undeveloped property and Maple Estates, further to the north.


             Applied GeoTech                                                Project No. 2172452
                                                                                            Page 4

FIELD STUDY


On January 24, 2018, an engineer from AGEC visited the site and observed the excavation
of 13 test pits at the approximate locations shown on Figure 2. The test pits were excavated
using a mini rubber tracked excavator. The subsurface soil profile was logged and soil and
bedrock samples were obtained at this time for laboratory testing.




SUBSURFACE CONDITIONS


The subsurface profile observed within the test pits excavated generally consists of near
surface silty sand to sandy silt overlying interbedded sandstone, shale and siltstone bedrock
to the maximum depth investigated, approximately 4 feet. Practical excavator refusal was
encountered on bedrock in each of the test pits at depths ranging from 1 to 4 feet below the
existing grade. Stockpiles of fill were also observed on the south and west sides of the site.
Detailed descriptions of the soil and bedrock types encountered follow.


       File Piles - Fill piles were observed on the south side of the site. Observations indicate
       the fill consists of a mixture of excavated bedrock and silty to clayey sand. Cobbles
       and boulders were also observed in the fill and in other piles. Based upon laboratory
       testing, the samples of the fill classify as silty sand with gravel to sandy silt.


       Laboratory tests conducted on samples of the fill indicate an in-place moisture content
       of 7 percent, gravel contents (percent retained on the No. 4 sieve) ranging from 2 to
       25 percent and fines contents (percent passing the No. 200 Sieve) ranging from 43
       to 59 percent.   Atterberg limits tests indicate the samples are non plastic.


       One-dimensional consolidation tests were conducted on remolded samples of the fill
       and indicate the material is not expansive when wetted.




             Applied GeoTech                                                  Project No. 2172452
                                                                                         Page 5

      Two moisture-density relationship tests (Modified Proctor) completed on samples of
      the fill indicate maximum dry densities ranging from 131.0 to 136.0 pounds per cubic
      foot (pcf) with and optimum moisture contents ranging from 6.0 to 7.5 percent.


      Silty Sand to Sandy Silt - The silty sand to sandy silt is loose, dry to slightly moist and
      reddish brown in color.


      Laboratory tests conducted on a sample of the sandy silt indicate a gravel content of
      3 percent and a fines content of 54 percent.      An Atterberg limits test indicates the
      sample is non-plastic.


      A moisture-density relationship test (Modified Proctor) completed on a sample of the
      sandy silt indicates a maximum dry density of 129.0 pcf with and optimum moisture
      content of 9.0 percent.


      Bedrock - The bedrock consists of interbedded sandstone, siltstone and shale bedrock.
      It is moderately hard, dry, and red-brown in color.


      Laboratory tests conducted on samples of the bedrock indicate fines contents ranging
      from 81 to 91 percent. Atterberg limits tests indicate Liquid Limits ranging from 28
      to 34 percent and plasticity indexes ranging from non-plastic to 16 percent.


The Logs, Legend and Notes of Test Pits are shown on Figure 3. Results of the laboratory
tests are also shown on Figure 3 and are summarized in the Summary of Laboratory Test
Results, Table 1. The consolidation test results are shown graphically on Figure 4. The
Gradation and Moisture-Density Relationships are shown on Figures 5 - 7.




            Applied GeoTech                                                   Project No. 2172452
                                                                                         Page 6

SUBSURFACE WATER


Groundwater was not encountered in test pits to the maximum depth investigated,
approximately 4 feet below the existing grade. Fluctuations of groundwater levels may occur
over time. An evaluation of such fluctuations over time is beyond the scope of this report.




PROPOSED CONSTRUCTION


We understand that the site will be developed for construction of a residential subdivision
containing 20 lots. We understand that wood framed residences will be constructed and 3
residences will include walkout basements. The residences will be supported on conventional
spread footings. We estimate wall loads up to 4 kips per lineal foot and columns loads up
to 75 kips.


Review of the proposed grading plan indicates the site will be graded by terracing the lots
down from the east to the west using on site soils. The grading plan indicates cuts up to
approximately 10 feet and fill depths up to 15 feet. The development will also include
asphalt roadways, utilities and site improvements.


If the proposed construction, or building loads are significantly different from those listed, we
should be notified so that we can reevaluate our recommendations.




RECOMMENDATIONS


Based on our experience in the area, the subsurface conditions encountered, laboratory test
results, and the proposed construction, the following recommendations are given:




              Applied GeoTech                                                 Project No. 2172452
                                                                                        Page 7

A.   Site Grading


     Based on the subsurface conditions and engineering analysis, the following site
     grading recommendations are provided:


     1.    Subgrade Preparation


           Prior to placing fill or concrete beneath building areas, pavement/flatwork or
           improvements, the site should be grubbed to remove the existing vegetation
           and soil containing significant roots and organics. The thickness may vary
           across the site, but we anticipate this will generally require the removal of
           approximately 1 to 2 inches of soil across the site. The existing fill piles should
           also be removed, but may be replaced in properly moisture conditioned and
           compacted lifts after removal of debris and oversized particles.


           The grubbed soil may be stockpiled for use in landscaped areas. If this soil is
           placed   in   landscaped    areas,   then   CMU     fence    footings   or    other
           structures/improvements, which may be supported in these areas (above the
           grubbed soil), should be overexcavated to allow for the placement of properly
           compacted structural fill which extends to the appropriate depth as stated
           below.


           Observations of the subsurface soil and bedrock during our investigation
           indicate the upper approximately ½ to 2 feet (varies across the site) of the near
           surface soil is loose and dry This soil is unsuitable in its existing condition.


           Prior to placing site grading fill, base course or concrete, the full depth of the
           previously described unsuitable soils should be removed from beneath the
           proposed building pad and roadways.




          Applied GeoTech                                                  Project No. 2172452
                                                                                  Page 8

     The limits of the overexcavation should extend at least 5 feet beyond the
     perimeter of the proposed construction.              The lateral extent of the
     overexcavation should be determined by survey and is the responsibility of the
     owner/contractor.


     Subsequent to overexcavation and prior to placing fill, the exposed subgrade
     should be scarified to a depth of 8 inches, moisture conditioned and
     compacted. If the exposed subgrade consists of bedrock, scarification and
     compaction will not be necessary and the exposed subgrade may be wetted
     and proof rolled. The removed material may then be replaced in properly
     moisture conditioned and compacted lifts.


2.   Excavation
     We anticipate that excavation of the overburden soils and soft bedrock at the
     site can be accomplished with typical excavation equipment.             Portions of
     deeper, more competent bedrock may require the use of heavy duty excavation
     equipment to excavate below the weathered zone.


3.   Grading Slopes and Trenches
     Permanent cut slopes excavated into the overburden soils and highly weathered
     bedrock should be cut no steeper than 2:1 (horizontal to vertical). Permanent
     cut slopes into the underlying firm to hard bedrock should be cut no steeper
     than ½:1 (Horizontal:vertical).


     Unretained fill slopes constructed with properly compacted on-site soil and
     processed bedrock should be graded no steeper than 2½:1 (horizontal to
     vertical). Slopes should include benches in accordance with the 2015 IBC.
     The cut and fill slopes will be highly susceptible to erosion, particularly resulting
     from run off from the adjacent slopes. Water should be directed around slopes
     using drainage swales to reduce potential erosion. A lot specific drainage
     study should be conducted by the civil engineer to control localized runoff.


     Applied GeoTech                                                  Project No. 2172452
                                                                                          Page 9

     To reduce erosion, the fill slopes may be flattened to 3:1 (horizontal to vertical)
     or they may be retained. Fill slopes may also be protected from erosion with
     an appropriate geotextile or riprap underlain with filter fabric. More detailed
     recommendations for riprap erosion control can be provided if requested.


     Fill slopes should be graded by overbuilding and then cut back to the desired
     grade to provide a compacted slope face. Fill placed on existing slopes steeper
     than 3:1 (horizontal to vertical) should be placed using a benching procedure
     to “key” the fill into the existing slope. Benches should be of sufficient width
     to allow adequate area for the compaction equipment.


     Utility trenches excavated in the on-site soils and soft, highly weathered
     bedrock should be excavated in accordance with OSHA requirements using a
     OSHA Soil Class C (1½:1 Horizontal:Vertical) soils and Soil Class A (¾:1) for
     trenches excavated into the firm bedrock.                  Steeper trenches may require the
     use of shoring or a trench box to provide as safe work environment. Safe
     trench excavation is the responsibility of the contractor.


4.   Materials
     Import materials should be non-expansive, non-gypsiferous, granular soil.
     Listed below are the materials recommended for imported fill.



                  Area                             Fill Type            Recommendations

       Foundations/slabs                      Site grading/           -200 <35%, LL <30%
                                              structural fill         Maximum size: 4 inches
                                                                         Solubility < 1%

       Underslab                                  Base course              -200 <12%
       (upper 4 inches)                                                Maximum size: 1 inch
                                                                         Solubility < 1%

       -200 = Percent Passing the No. 200 Sieve
       LL = Liquid Limit




     Applied GeoTech                                                           Project No. 2172452
                                                                                 Page 10

     The on-site silty sand to sandy silt, fill and properly processed bedrock, free of
     organics, debris and material greater than 6 inches in size, are suitable for use
     as site grading fill, structural fill, wall backfill and utility trench backfill. The
     bedrock should be processed such that the maximum particle size is 6 inches
     and at least 40 percent of the material passes the No. 4 sieve.


5.   Compaction
     Compaction of materials placed at the site should equal or exceed the following
     minimum densities when compared to the maximum dry density as determined
     by ASTM D-1557:



                          Area                              Percent Compaction

       Subgrade                                                      90
       Footings/building pad                                         95
       Site grading                                                  95
       Utility trenches                                              95
       Wall backfill                                                 95



     To facilitate the compaction process, the fill should be moisture conditioned to
     within 2 percentage points of the optimum moisture content as determined by
     ASTM D-1557 prior to placement. Fill should be placed in loose lift thicknesses
     which do not exceed the capacity of the equipment being utilized. Generally,
     6 to 8-inch loose lifts are adequate. Lift thicknesses should be reduced to 4-
     inches for hand compaction equipment.


6.   Surface Drainage
     Positive site drainage should be maintained during the course of construction.
     After construction has been completed, positive drainage of the surface water
     away from the buildings in each direction must be maintained. To reduce
     infiltration adjacent to foundations we recommend the following:




     Applied GeoTech                                                  Project No. 2172452
                                                                      Page 11

a.     A minimum slope of 6 inches in the first 10 feet from the perimeters of
       the structures should be provided.


b.     Roof gutter systems should be installed around the perimeters of the
       structures. Roof downspouts should discharge away from the buildings
       so as to prevent ponding adjacent to foundations. We recommend
       piping roof drains to the curb and gutter downslope from the structures.


c.     Placement of 3 to 4 foot wide concrete aprons around the perimeters
       of the structures.


d.     Landscaping requiring water should not be placed adjacent to or within
       5 feet of foundations.


e.     We also recommend that desert landscaping, which requires no water,
       be used adjacent to concrete walls and masonry walls or other cement
       containing elements which will be backfilled to reduce salt migration of
       soluble salts and the subsequent salt weathering on cement containing
       elements. Further, the below grade portions of walls/fences which are
       backfilled with soil should be protected with an impermeable membrane
       and a subsurface drain. A gravel covered, perforated PVC pipe should
       also be placed at the base of the wall to carry water to a discharge
       point. This is intended to reduce the potential for salt weathering on
       concrete/masonry.




Applied GeoTech                                              Project No. 2172452
                                                                               Page 12

     7.    Subsurface Drainage
           We recommend placement of a perimeter subdrain around the basement walls
           due to possible presence of future groundwater which may become perched on
           the underlying bedrock resulting from development. The drain should consist
           of a 4 inch perforated PVC pipe placed around the perimeter of the of the
           basement footings. It should be placed such that the bottom of the pipe is at
           least 12 inches below the finished floor elevation and should slope at a 2%
           minimum grade to drain by gravity or to a sump. A sump pump should be
           placed, if necessary, to remove water which may become present in the future.
           The perforated pipe should be backfilled with 1 inch minus crushed gravel to
           an elevation at least 1 foot above the highest anticipated groundwater level.
           Prior to backfilling the basement walls with properly compacted fill, Mirafi
           140N filter fabric should be placed over the gravel to prevent sand from
           migrating into the gravel.


B.   Foundations


     This report does not address swimming pools. Support of proposed pools should
     addressed with a lot specific subsurface investigation and report to provide pool
     support recommendations. Recommendations for design of conventional spread and
     spot footing are provided below.


     1.    Bearing Material
           The proposed residences may be supported on conventional spread and spot
           footings bearing on directly on the underlying bedrock or on properly
           compacted structural fill underlain by a properly prepared subgrade.
           Specifically, the subgrade should be prepared during site grading by removing
           the full depth of unsuitable, loose soils (½ to 2 feet) as recommended in the
           Subgrade Preparation section of this report.    Basement footings may be
           supported on a minimum of 1 foot of properly compacted structural fill or
           directly on bedrock.


          Applied GeoTech                                             Project No. 2172452
                                                                            Page 13

2.   Bearing Pressure
     Footings bearing on properly compacted structural fill may be designed for a
     net allowable bearing pressure of 2,500 psf.        The net allowable bearing
     pressure may be increased to 3,500 psf for footings which will be supported
     directly on bedrock.


3.   Footing Width and Embedment
     Footings should have a minimum width of 18 inches and should be embedded
     at least 12 inches below the lowest adjacent grade.


4.   Temporary Loading Conditions
     The allowable bearing pressures may be increased by one-half for temporary
     loading conditions such as wind or seismic loads.


5.   Settlement
     We estimate that settlement will be approximately 1 inch for footings designed
     as indicated above due to the load of the structure. Differential settlement is
     estimated to be approximately ½ inch.


6.   Foundation Base
     The base of excavations should be cleared of loose or deleterious material prior
     to placement of fill or concrete.


7.   Foundation Setback
     Foundations supporting the residences should be set back from the crest of the
     top ridge at least 30 feet.




     Applied GeoTech                                               Project No. 2172452
                                                                                  Page 14

C.   Concrete Slab-on-Grade


     1.     Slab Support
            Concrete slabs may be supported on a zone of properly prepared
            (overexcavated) and compacted fill as stated in the Subgrade Preparation
            section of this report with a minimum thickness of at least 12 inches.


     2.     Underslab Base Course
            A 4-inch layer of properly compacted base course should be placed below slabs
            to provide a firm and consistent subgrade and promote even curing of the
            concrete.


     3.     Vapor Barrier
            A vapor barrier should be placed below slabs in areas which will receive
            sensitive floor coverings or coverings which are impermeable. Vapor barriers
            also provide protection from salt and sulfate attack.


D.   Lateral Earth Pressures


     1.     Lateral Resistance for Footings
            Lateral resistance for spread footings is controlled by sliding resistance
            developed between the footing and the subgrade soil. An ultimate friction
            value of 0.45 may be used in design for ultimate lateral resistance of footings
            bearing on properly compacted on-site soils.


     2.     Retaining Structures
            The following equivalent fluid weights are given for design of subgrade walls
            and retaining structures. The active condition is where the wall moves away
            from the soil. The passive condition is where the wall moves into the soil and
            the at-rest condition is where the wall does not move.    We recommend the
            basement walls be designed in an at-rest condition.


           Applied GeoTech                                               Project No. 2172452
                                                                               Page 15

     The values listed below assume a horizontal surface adjacent the top and
     bottom of the wall.



       Description                                      Active    At-Rest     Passive

       Imported or on site granular backfill (sand or   35 pcf     55 pcf     325 pcf
       gravel)

       Imported or on site granular backfill - Earth    0.28        0.44          -
       pressure coefficient



     The above values account for the lateral earth pressures due to the soil and
     level backfill conditions and do not account for hydrostatic pressures or
     surcharge loads.


     Lateral loading should be increased to account for surcharge loading using the
     appropriate earth pressure coefficient and a rectangular distribution if structures
     are placed above the wall and are within a horizontal distance equal to the
     height of the wall. If the ground surface slopes up away from the wall, the
     equivalent fluid weights should also be increased.


     Care should be taken to prevent percolation of surface water into the backfill
     material adjacent to the retaining walls. The risk of hydrostatic build up can
     be reduced by placing a subdrain behind the walls consisting of free-draining
     gravel wrapped in a filter fabric.


3.   Seismic Conditions
     Under seismic conditions, the equivalent fluid weight should be modified as
     follows according to the Mononobe-Okabe method assuming a level backfill
     condition:




     Applied GeoTech                                                 Project No. 2172452
                                                                                   Page 16

                           Lateral Earth                    Seismic Modification
                      Pressure Condition                     (2% PE in 50 yrs)

                              Active                          20 pcf increase

                              At-rest                          0 pcf increase

                              Passive                         41 pcf decrease



            The seismic increases and decrease assume a peak ground acceleration (PGA)
            of 0.23g and a 1 second period ground acceleration (S1) of 0.17g using the
            Mononobe-Okabe pressure distribution. The resultant of the seismic increase
            should be placed up from the base of the wall a distance equal to a the height
            of the wall.


     4.     Safety Factors
            The values recommended assume mobilization of the soil to achieve the
            assumed soil strength. Conventional safety factors used for structural analysis
            for such items as overturning and sliding resistance should be used in design.


E.   Seismicity, Liquefaction and Faulting


     1.     Seismic design parameters are provided below:




           Applied GeoTech                                               Project No. 2172452
                                                                                     Page 17

                                                               Seismic Parameter
                             Description               2,500 yr event (.2% PE in 50 yrs)

                             2015 IBC                                 C

                           Site Latitude                          37.0435°

                           Site Longitude                        -113.5223°

                         PGA - Site Class B                         0.23g

              Ss (0.2 second period) - Site Class B                 0.56g

               S1 (1 second period) - Site Class B                  0.17g

                       Fpga - Site Class Factor                      1.17

                       Fa - Site Class Factor                        1.18

                       Fv - Site Class Factor                        1.63



     2.     Liquefaction
            Based on subsurface conditions encountered in the test pits, the subsurface
            soils observed are non-liquefiable to the depths investigated during a seismic
            event.


     3.     Faulting
            Based on a review of available geologic literature, there are no mapped faults
            extending near or through the site.


F.   Soil Corrosion


     Laboratory test results completed on samples collected at the site indicate water
     soluble sulfates concentrations ranging from 5,700 to 5,940 parts per million (ppm).
     Therefore, we recommend concrete elements that will be exposed to the on-site soils
     be designed in accordance with provisions provided in the American Concrete Institute
     Manual of Concrete Practice (ACI) 318-II. Table 4.2.1 and 4.2.1 of ACI 318-11
     should be referenced for design of concrete elements utilizing a Sulfate Exposure Class
     of S2, and a sulfate exposure severity of “severe”.


           Applied GeoTech                                                  Project No. 2172452
                                                                                    Page 18

     Consideration should also be given to cathodic protection of buried metal pipes. We
     recommend utilizing PVC pipes where local building codes allow.


G.   Pavement


     1.    Subgrade Support
           We anticipate that the subgrade materials beneath the pavement areas will
           consist of properly compacted silty sand to sandy silt. Prior to placement of
           road base, the subgrade should be prepared as recommended in the subgrade
           preparation section of this report. A California Bearing Ratio (CBR) of 7 percent
           was assumed for a properly compacted sandy silt subgrade for purposes of
           design.


     2.    Pavement Thickness
           Based on the assumed traffic loadings and St. George City traffic indexes, a
           20-year design life, and AASHTO design methods, the following pavement
           sections are recommended.



                      Roadway                  Asphalt (in.)           Base Course (in.)

             45 foot right-of-way                  2½                         6

             Banded Hills Drive                     3                         6



     3.    Pavement Materials
           The pavement materials should meet City of St. George specifications for
           gradation and quality. The pavement thicknesses indicated above assume that
           the base course is a high quality material with a CBR of at least 50 percent and
           the asphaltic concrete has a minimum Marshall stability of 1,800 pounds.
           Other materials may be considered for use in the pavement section. The use
           of other materials may result in other pavement material thicknesses.




          Applied GeoTech                                                Project No. 2172452
                                                                                Page 19

     4.     Drainage
            The collection and diversion of drainage away from the pavement surface is
            extremely important to the satisfactory performance of the pavement section.
            Proper drainage should be provided.


H.   Construction Testing and Observations


     We recommend the following testing and observations be done as a minimum as
     required by the City of St. George.


     1.     Observe grubbing and verify removal of soil containing roots and organics.


     2.     Verify that recommended overexcavation depths are achieved in the building
            pads and beneath roadways. The lateral extent of the building pad should be
            located by survey (not included in AGEC’s Scope of Services) and includes an
            area which extends at least 5 feet beyond the buildable area as per city set-
            back requirements.


     3.     Verify that recommended structural fill depths are provided below foundations
            and slabs.


     4.     Conduct compaction testing on fill placed below foundations and in building
            pads. We recommend testing each foot of fill placed.


     5.     Conduct construction materials testing on city improvements at a frequency
            which meets or exceeds St. George City requirements.




           Applied GeoTech                                             Project No. 2172452
                                                                                            Project: Banded Hills

                      150

                      145                                                                                                                             Sample Date: 1/24/18
                                                                                                                                                       Sample No. 180126D
                      140                                                                                                                   Maximum Dry Density:                                129.0
                                                                                                                                              Optimum Moisture:                                  9.0
                      135                                                                                                                          Atterberg Limits
    Dry Density-PCF




                                                                            Zero Air Voids Curve for:                                                          Liquid Limit:
                                                                                          G = 2.8                                                          Plasticity Index: Non-Plastic
                      130                                                                 G = 2.7
                                                                                          G = 2.6                                                             Gradation
                      125                                                                                                                                            Gravel:                     3%
                                                                                                                                                                      Sand:                      43%
                                                                                                                                                                Silt & Clay:                     54%
                      120

                      115

                      110
                               0                 5                 10                15                 20                      25
                                               Moisture Content-Percent of Dry Weight

                         Moisture - Density Relationship Test Procedure: AASHTO T-180 B                                                                       Reviewed By: TT
                         USCS Classification: sandy silt (ML)
                         AASHTO Classification: A-4
                         Sample Location: TP-4 @ 1-2'

                                                                                                                                 #10
                             24 Hr     7 Hr
                             45 Min   15 Min     60 Min   19 Min   4 Min   1 Min   #200       #100    #50    #40 #30     #16           #8    #4     "3/8     "3/4   "1-1/2    "3    "4    "6    "8

                      100%

                      90%

                      80%

                      70%
Percent Passing




                      60%

                      50%

                      40%

                      30%

                      20%

                      10%

                       0%
                             0.001    0.002      0.005    0.009    0.019   0.037   0.074     0.149   0.297       0.590   1.19        2.38   4.76    9.52     19.1   38.1     76.2               200
                                                                                                             0.420               2.0                                                100   152

                                                                                           Diameter of Particle in Millimeters


                                           GRADATION AND MOISTURE-DENSITY
                      Project No.: 2172452      RELATIONSHIP RESULTS                                                                                                  Figure:                         5
                                                                                            Project: Banded Hills

                      150

                      145                                                                                                                             Sample Date: 2/5/18
                                                                                                                                                       Sample No. 180206B
                      140                                                                                                                   Maximum Dry Density:                                131.0
                                                                                                                                              Optimum Moisture:                                  7.5
                      135                                                                                                                          Atterberg Limits
    Dry Density-PCF




                                                                            Zero Air Voids Curve for:                                                          Liquid Limit:
                                                                                          G = 2.8                                                          Plasticity Index: Non-Plastic
                      130                                                                 G = 2.7
                                                                                          G = 2.6                                                             Gradation
                      125                                                                                                                                            Gravel:                     25%
                                                                                                                                                                      Sand:                      32%
                                                                                                                                                                Silt & Clay:                     43%
                      120

                      115

                      110
                               0                 5                 10                15                 20                      25
                                               Moisture Content-Percent of Dry Weight

                         Moisture - Density Relationship Test Procedure: AASHTO T-180 B                  Reviewed By: TT
                         USCS Classification: Light red-brown, Silty Sand with Gravel (SM) Rock Corrected
                         AASHTO Classification: A-4
                         Sample Location: Onsite Stockpile Near TP-9

                                                                                                                                 #10
                             24 Hr     7 Hr
                             45 Min   15 Min     60 Min   19 Min   4 Min   1 Min   #200       #100    #50    #40 #30     #16           #8    #4     "3/8     "3/4   "1-1/2    "3    "4    "6    "8

                      100%

                      90%

                      80%

                      70%
Percent Passing




                      60%

                      50%

                      40%

                      30%

                      20%

                      10%

                       0%
                             0.001    0.002      0.005    0.009    0.019   0.037   0.074     0.149   0.297       0.590   1.19        2.38   4.76    9.52     19.1   38.1     76.2               200
                                                                                                             0.420               2.0                                                100   152

                                                                                           Diameter of Particle in Millimeters


                                           GRADATION AND MOISTURE-DENSITY
                      Project No.: 2172452      RELATIONSHIP RESULTS                                                                                                  Figure:                         6
                                                                                            Project: Banded Hills

                      150

                      145                                                                                                                             Sample Date: 2/5/18
                                                                                                                                                       Sample No. 180206A
                      140                                                                                                                   Maximum Dry Density:                                136.0
                                                                                                                                              Optimum Moisture:                                  6.0
                      135                                                                                                                          Atterberg Limits
    Dry Density-PCF




                                                                            Zero Air Voids Curve for:                                                          Liquid Limit:
                                                                                          G = 2.8                                                          Plasticity Index: Non-Plastic
                      130                                                                 G = 2.7
                                                                                          G = 2.6                                                             Gradation
                      125                                                                                                                                            Gravel:                     2%
                                                                                                                                                                      Sand:                      39%
                                                                                                                                                                Silt & Clay:                     59%
                      120

                      115

                      110
                               0                 5                 10                15                 20                      25
                                               Moisture Content-Percent of Dry Weight

                         Moisture - Density Relationship Test Procedure: AASHTO T-180 B                                                                       Reviewed By: TT
                         USCS Classification: Brown, Sandy Silt (ML)
                         AASHTO Classification: A-4
                         Sample Location: Onsite Stockpile near TP-10

                                                                                                                                 #10
                             24 Hr     7 Hr
                             45 Min   15 Min     60 Min   19 Min   4 Min   1 Min   #200       #100    #50    #40 #30     #16           #8    #4     "3/8     "3/4   "1-1/2    "3    "4    "6    "8

                      100%

                      90%

                      80%

                      70%
Percent Passing




                      60%

                      50%

                      40%

                      30%

                      20%

                      10%

                       0%
                             0.001    0.002      0.005    0.009    0.019   0.037   0.074     0.149   0.297       0.590   1.19        2.38   4.76    9.52     19.1   38.1     76.2               200
                                                                                                             0.420               2.0                                                100   152

                                                                                           Diameter of Particle in Millimeters


                                           GRADATION AND MOISTURE-DENSITY
                      Project No.: 2172452      RELATIONSHIP RESULTS                                                                                                  Figure:                         7
                                                   Applied Geotechnical Engineering Consultants, Inc.

                                                              Table 1 - Summary of Laboratory Test Results

Banded Hills Subdivision                                                                                                                                                       Project No. 2172452


  Sample Location                                                       Gradation                    Atterberg Limits      Moisture-Density Relationship




                                                                                     Silt/Clay (%)
      Test Pit No.




                                                           Gravel (%)
                                  Natural                                                                                                                   Water
                     Depth (ft)




                                                                          Sand (%)
                                  Moisture   Natural Dry                                             Liquid    Plastic    Maximum       Optimum Moisture   Soluble
                                  Content     Density                                                Limit     Index     Dry Density         Content       Sulfates
                                    (%)         (pcf)                                                 (%)       (%)         (pcf)              (%)          (ppm)                   Soil Type

    TP-3             ½                                                               81               28         9                                                    Shale Bedrock

    TP-4             1-2                                   3              43         54                         NP         129.0               9.0                    Sandy Silt (ML)

    TP-5             1                                                               91                         NP                                                    Siltstone Bedrock

    TP-10            2                                                               91               34         16                                                   Shale Bedrock

  Stockpile                          7                     25             32         43                         NP         131.0               7.5         5,700      Fill - Silty Sand with Gravel (SM)
  near TP-9

   Stockpile                         7                     2              39         59                         NP         136.0               6.0         5,940      Fill - Sandy Silt (ML)
  near TP-10
Exhibit D
                                                                                 ITEM 1
HILLSIDE REVIEW BOARD AGENDA REPORT:                     04/18/2018


HILLSIDE DEVELOPMENT PERMIT
Banded Hills
Case No. 2018-HS-002

Request:           A request for a Hillside Development Permit to allow development of a
                   proposed single family residential development on “Banded Hills Drive.”

Project:           The purpose of this project is to develop eleven (11) residential lots in
                   compliance with the hillside ordinance.

Owner:             Quality Development

Representative:    Steve Kamlowski

Engineer:          Development Solutions Group

APN:               SG-5-3-15-121-STL (SG-5-3-15-311)

Location:          Located at approximately 2915 E Banded Hills Drive (generally located
                   between Copper Cliff Drive and Banded Hills Drive)

Acreage:           Site area = 9.12 acres
                   Disturbed area = 7.93 acres

Zone:              R-1-10 (Single Family Residential 10,000 sq. ft. minimum lot size)

Adjacent zones:    North = OS & R-1-10
                   South = ASBP (Airport)
                   East = OS
                   West = R-1-10

Powers & Duties:   Section 10-13A-12.B.1 of the “Hillside Review Board Powers and Duties”
                   states that the hillside board can make recommendations for approval,
                   conditional approval, and denial to the Planning Commission (PC) and
                   City Council (CC).

Permit required:   Section 10-13A-6:A requires that all major development (i.e, cut greater
                   than 4’, etc.) on slopes above 20% requires a ‘hillside development
                   permit’ granted by the City Council upon recommendation from the
                   Hillside Review Board and the Planning Commission.
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 2 of 22

Geotech:              A Geological Hazard Assessment and Preliminary Geotechnical Report
                      was prepared by AGEC (Applied Geotechnical Engineering Consultants,
                      Inc.) on February 23, 2018 (Project No. 2172452). The report includes a
                      summary of conditions and recommended investigations and mitigations
                      to occur with development.

Rockfall:             AGEC prepared a rockfall report with recommendations for mitigations;
                      its included in the “Geologic-Hazard Study” report dated February 13,
                      2018.

Drainage:             A “Drainage Study” dated March 26, 2018, was prepared by Development
                      Solutions Group, Inc. The report is an analysis of on-site and off-site
                      hydrology under current conditions and with proposed development of the
                      site. The report addresses proposed mitigations for handling drainage.

Applicable Ordinance(s):
(Selected portions)
                      10-13A-1: Purpose
                      The city finds that the health, safety and the general public welfare of the
                      residents of the city will be promoted by establishing standards for the
                      development and excavation of hillside and slope areas located in the city so as to
                      minimize soil and slope instability and erosion, to minimize the adverse effects
                      of grading, cut and fill operations, to preserve the character of the city's hillsides,
                      and to otherwise supplement and amplify the city subdivision and zoning
                      ordinances. The provisions herein are designated to accomplish the following:

                      A. Prohibit development of uses which would likely result in a hazardous
                         situation due to slope instability, rock falls or excessive soil erosion.

                      B. Provide for safe vehicular circulation and access.

                      C. Encourage the location, design and development of building sites in a
                         manner that will minimize the scarring and erosion effects of cutting, filling
                         and grading of hillsides.

                      D. Encourage preservation of open space by encouraging clusters or other
                         design techniques to preserve the natural terrain.

                      E. Where hillside excavation does occur, require that buildings be located in the
                      cut area to minimize the visual effects of scarring. (1998 Document § 10A-1)

                      Section 10-13A-4: Density and Disturbance Standards
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 3 of 22

                   A. Schedule: In furtherance of the purposes set forth above, density and site
                      disturbance within the hillside development overlay zone shall comply with
                      the following schedule. Any portion of a development parcel having a slope
                      greater than forty percent (40%) shall not be included in the calculation of
                      the area of such parcel for the purposes of determining conformity with the
                      density requirements below:



Percent    Dwelling Units (DU) / Acre
Natural
Slope
0-19       See underlying zone
20-29      2 DU/acre, provided the units are clustered on 30 percent (30%) or less of the land
           area within this slope category. 70 percent of this slope category shall remain
           undisturbed. The 70 percent area is based upon the overall area/development rather
           than per lot. Also see subsections A1, A2, and A3 of this section.
30-39      1 DU/10 acres, provided no more than 5 percent (5%) of the site is disturbed, and 95
           percent of the site remains undisturbed. If the cumulative area is at least 1 acre but
           less than 10 acres, the cumulative area shall be allowed 1 DU.
40         Development is not permitted (0%), except as provided for in subsection A4 of this
           section.

                   A.4.    The city council, after considering the recommendation from the hillside
                           review board, and from the planning commission may approve the
                           removal of small hills which contain slopes forty percent (40%) or
                           greater subject to determining the application conforms to all of the
                           following requirements:

                           a. The hill is not contiguous to nor part of a major hillside formation, and
                           b. The removal of such landform will not create a negative aesthetic
                           impact in the opinion of the city council, and
                           c. The land area is zoned for residential, commercial, or industrial
                           development. (Ord. 2013-01-001, 1-3-2013)

                   Section 10-13A-5: Slope and Slope Areas Determined

                   B. Procedure: The location of the natural twenty percent (20%), thirty percent
                      (30%) and forty percent (40%) slopes for the purposes of this article shall be
                      determined using the following procedure: (Ord. 2005-07-007, 7-21-2005)

                       3. Determination of Slope Areas for Density Calculations: Using the contour
                           maps, slopes shall be calculated in intervals no greater than forty feet
                           (40') along profile lines. Points identified as slopes of twenty percent
                           (20%), thirty percent (30%), and forty percent (40%) shall be located on
                           the contour map and connected by a continuous line. That area bounded
                           by said lines and intersecting property lines shall be used for determining
                           dwelling unit density. Small washes or rock outcrops which have slopes
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 4 of 22

                          distinctly different from surrounding property and not part of the
                          contiguous topography may be excluded from slope determination if, in
                          the opinion of the hillside review board, the exclusion of such small
                          areas from slope determination will not be contrary to the overall
                          purpose of this article. For the purpose of determining developable areas
                          and allowable densities, previously disturbed hillside areas shall be
                          considered on a pre-disturbance natural slope basis, where feasible, as
                          proposed by the applicant's engineer and approved by the hillside review
                          board. Where a property owner restores a previously disturbed area to a
                          natural or near natural condition, the area may be included within a
                          required no disturbance area. (Ord. 2005-07-007, 7-21-2005)

Comments:          If the HSRB recommends approval of a hillside permit, then the permit
                   request advances forward to the Planning Commission (PC) for review
                   and recommendation and then on to the City Council (CC) for approval or
                   denial.

                   If approved, staff would work with the applicant for submittal of a SPR
                   (Site Plan Review) application with the required accompanying civil
                   engineering plan set (for plan review).

                   1. Hillside Permit - A hillside permit is required per ordinance and the
                      HSRB will make recommendations to the PC & CC.

                   2. Zoning – For this project, no zone change is proposed because the
                      project would fit into the existing R-1-10 zone.

                   3. Development – It’s proposed to develop eleven (11) single family
                      residences. A thirty (30) foot setback line from an established ridge
                      line will be required as presented. Retaining walls will be
                      incorporated. No disturb (no build) areas will be established on lots 1
                      thru 8 as presented. The ‘Minor Hills’ may be removed as presented
                      (minor hills and/or cuts left over from the Banded Hills Road
                      construction).

                   4. Drainage – Drainage shall comply with the ‘Drainage Study’ dated
                      March 26, 2018 by Development Solutions Group.

                   5. Geotechnical Investigation – All earthworks shall comply with the
                      recommendations and mitigations presented in AGEC Geotech Report
                      for project #2172452 dated February 23, 2018.

                   6. Rockfall – Rockfall hazards shall be mitigated in compliance with the
                      recommendations found in the AGEC “Geologic-Hazard Study” report
                      dated February 13, 2018.
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 5 of 22

HSRB Motion:       The following are examples of possible motions;

                   1. Denial - This application is recommended for denial because
                      _______________________________.

                   2. Table – This application is recommended to be tabled to allow the
                      applicant an opportunity to provide the following information
                      _______________________________.

                   3. Approval - A motion to recommend approval to remove insignificant
                      slope areas to allow development of a proposed single family
                      residential development off of Banded Hills Drive. The recommended
                      areas to be removed are depicted on Sheet SAM-1 titled “Slope
                      Analysis Map” (dated 3/26/2018). This removal is justified with the
                      findings that the areas within the identified “limits of disturbance” per
                      Section 10-13A-4.A.4.a) are not contiguous nor part of a major hillside
                      formation, b) the removal of such areas will not create a negative
                      aesthetic impact in the opinion of the City Council, and c) the land
                      area is zoned for residential development. The applicant shall work
                      with staff during the construction plan review process to address any
                      rockfall hazards, geotech hazartds, and drainage and sediment issues,
                      and will follow the recommendations of the drainage report,
                      geotechnical report, and rockfall report.
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 6 of 22



                   Street Photos – Banded Hills
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 7 of 22
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 8 of 22

                   Vicinity - Aerial Map
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 9 of 22

                   Zoning Map




   Site
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 10 of 22

                      Property

                       City GIS




                   Washington County
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 11 of 22

                   Slope Map – Full Sheet
                     (Colored Contour Map)
                   (Full size plan is in the HSRB packet)
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 12 of 22

                      Slope Map – Detail
                     (Colored Contour Map)
                   (Full size plan is in the HSRB packet)
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 13 of 22

                   Grading Plan




                                  C-C

        A-A          B-B
   HSRB 2018-HS-002
   Banded Hills
   Page 14 of 22



                                      Detail – Grading Plan

30 ft. ridgeline
setback




                                                                       B-B
          A-A

                                                    Rock Fall Hazard
                   Rock Fall Hazard                 Line
                   Zone (No Build)
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 15 of 22

                   Cross Sections
                       A-A




                        B-B
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 16 of 22

                   C-C
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 17 of 22

                                        Drainage Report
   (Only the cover is shown; the full report is 26 pages and is in the HSRB packet and in the project case file)
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 18 of 22

                              Geotechnical Report
  (Cover only is shown; the full report is 30 pages long and is in the HSRB packet and in the
                                        project case file)
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 19 of 22

                           Hazard – Rock Fall Report
   (Only the cover is shown; the full report is 6 pages and is in the HSRB packet and in the project case file)
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 20 of 22

                   Application
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 21 of 22
HSRB 2018-HS-002
Banded Hills
Page 22 of 22
Exhibit E
                                                                                            Item 5
            Community Development                              Preliminary Plat Amendment

PLANNING COMMISSION AGENDA REPORT: 05/18/2023

PRELIMINARY PLAT
Moorland Park Phases 5 & 8
Preliminary Plat Amendment
Case No. 2023-PP-018

Request:                      The applicant is requesting approval of an amendment that will add
                              an additional six lots to the Moorland Park Phases 3-9 Preliminary
                              Plat.

Representative:               Logan Blake (DSG Engineering)

Parcel Number:                SG-5-2-34-42001

Location:                     The property is generally located north of the 2580 East dead end at
                              approximately 930 South.

Total Acreage:                Approximately 2.49 acres
PC 2023-PP-018
Moorland Park Phases 5 & 8
Preliminary Plat Amendment
Page 2 of 4

Existing Zoning:             R-1-10 (Residential Single-Family, 10,000 sq ft minimum lot size)
General Plan:                LDR (Low Density Residential)

Adjacent zones:              North – A-20 (Agriculture 20-acre minimum lot size), PD-R
                             (Planned Development Residential)
                             West – A-20 (Agriculture, 20 acre minimum lot size)
                             South & East – R-1-10 (Residential Single-Family, 10,000 sq ft
                             minimum lot size)

Background & Analysis:       In December of 2018, the City Council approved the Moorland
                             Park Phases 3-9 preliminary plat. To date, phases 1-4 have been
                             recorded. As part of the preliminary plat, of phase eight,
                             approximately 2.28 acres was set aside for a park. The parks
                             department has determined that the park should be consolidated
                             and shifted north to the property adjacent to Woodland Estates
                             phase 2. With the change in park location, the subject property is
                             available for development.

                             The applicant is proposing to add six 10,000 ft² plus lots to fill in
                             the abandoned park lot. This will take the density of phases five
                             and eight, from 2.37 units per acre to 2.73 units per acre and from
                             39 units to 45 units.

Recommendation:              Staff recommends approval of this preliminary plat.

Alternatives:                1. Recommend approval as presented.
                             2. Recommend denial.
                             3. Table the proposed preliminary plat to a specific date.

Sample Motion:               “I move that we forward a positive recommendation to the City
                             Council for the Moorland Park Phases 5 & 8 Preliminary Plat
                             amendment request, application number 2023-PP-018, based on
                             the findings noted in the staff report.

Possible Findings:           1. That the plat is consistent with and compliant to the zoning on
                             the property.
                             2. That the plat will not leave any remnant property unaccounted
                             for.
                             3. That the proposed amendment is consistent with the rest of the
                             Moorland Park development.
                             4. That the park that was proposed on the property has been
                             shifted north and consolidated as proposed by the Parks
                             Department.
PC 2023-PP-018
Moorland Park Phases 5 & 8
Preliminary Plat Amendment
Page 3 of 4

                               Zoning Map




                             General Plan Map
PC 2023-PP-018
Moorland Park Phases 5 & 8
Preliminary Plat Amendment
Page 4 of 4

                             Presentation
 MOORLAND
    PA R K
PHASES 5 & 8
  AMENDED
   2023-PP-018
AERIAL MAP
LAND USE MAP
ZONING MAP
A P P RO V E D P L AT
A P P RO V E D P L AT
AREA AFFECTED
P RO P O S E D P L AT
                                        NOTICE OF MEETING
                                      PLANNING COMMISSION
                                        CITY OF ST. GEORGE
                                    WASHINGTON COUNTY, UTAH

                                               Public Notice

Notice is hereby given that the Planning Commission of the City of St. George, Washington County, Utah, will
hold a Planning Commission meeting in the City Council Chambers, 175 East 200 North, St George, Utah, on
Tuesday, May 9, 2023, commencing at 5:00 p.m.

PRESENT:      Chair Steve Kemp
              Commissioner Nathan Fisher
              Commissioner Emily Andrus
              Commissioner Ben Rogers


CITY STAFF:
          Public Works Assistant Director Wes Jenkins
          City Civil Attorney Ryan Dooley
          Planner III Carol Davidson
          Planner III Mike Hadley
          Planner III Dan Boles
          Development Office Supervisor Brenda Hatch


EXCUSED: Commissioner Lori Chapman
         Commissioner Austin Anderson


Chair Kemp called the meeting to order. Commissioner Andrus led us in the Pledge of Allegiance.


   1. PLANNED DEVELOPMENT AMENDMENT (PDA) (Public Hearing) Legislative

          A. Consider a request for a Planned Development (PD) amendment to the existing PA-1 Multi-
             Family PD-R (Planned Development Residential) zone. The applicant is seeking to adjust the
             previously approved building layout, architecture, and unit count. The proposal would reduce the
             number of units from 500 approved multi-family units to 464 multi-family units. The property is
             approximately 34.27 acres located south-east of the Gap Canyon Pkwy and 1790 West
             intersection. The applicant is RDG, LLC and the representative is Grey Garza. The project will
             be known as Circolo Villas. Case No. 2023-PDA-004 (Staff – Dan Boles)

          THIS ITEM WILL NOT BE HEARD AT THIS MEETING, IT WILL BE NOTICED AT A LATER
          DATE.

          B. Consider a request for a PD (Planned Development) amendment and extension to the Desert
             Canyons Planned Development Residential (PD-R) zone and a portion of Desert Canyons
             Development that was annexed not yet zoned. The applicant is seeking approval to build 142
             homes on 25.06 acres. This property is located approximately at the eastward extension of Desert
             Canyons Pkwy. The applicant is Desert Canyons Development LLC, and the representative is
Planning Commission Minutes
May 9, 2023
Page 2 of 10

             Curt Gordon. The project will be known as Desert Reflections at Desert Canyons. Case No.
             2023-PDA-007. (Staff – Mike Hadley)

             Mike Hadley presented the following:

             Mike Hadley – The general plan is MDR, the zoning is PD-R with a portion of R-1-12. It is in
             the floodway/floodplain. They have gone through FEMA and got approval for this. They provide
             parking with 61 guest stalls; they do meet the overall parking. This project will require 3
             amenities at 50% of build out. There are 6 elevations proposed for the project.

             Chair Kemp - Will these be public streets?

             Mike Hadley – Yes, I believe so, you may want to ask the applicant.

             Commission Andrus – Is this going to be a part of the PD-R next to it?

             Mike Hadley – No, it will be its own PD-R.

             Commissioner Rogers – Will it have the same density as Desert Playa?

             Mike Hadley – Yes.

             Commissioner Fisher – Will these be public streets or private?

             Curt Gordon – They will be public streets. The density of this project is more in tune with what
             is around the Desert Canyons school. What is around the church is about 6 units an acre, this is a
             little less. These are a little bit bigger units than what is around the church. Just to clarify, the
             floodplain map that was shown isn’t correct anymore. This isn’t in the floodplain at all.

             Chair Kemp opened the public hearing.

             Chair Kemp closed the public hearing.


              MOTION: Commissioner Fisher made a motion to recommend approval of Item 1B.
              SECOND: Commissioner Rogers
              ROLL CALL VOTE:
              AYES (4)
              Chair Kemp
              Commissioner Rogers
              Commissioner Fisher
              Commissioner Andrus
              NAYS (0)
              Motion Carries unanimous vote



   2. PRELIMINARY PLAT (PP) Administrative
Planning Commission Minutes
May 9, 2023
Page 3 of 10


         A. Consider a request to consider a request for a one hundred forty-two (142) lot preliminary plat
            known as Desert Reflections at Desert Canyons. The property is located easterly along Desert
            Canyons Parkway. The property is 25.06 acres and is zoned PD-R and R-1-12. The applicant is
            Desert Canyons Development LLC, and the representative is Curt Gordon. Case No. 2023-PP-
            017. (Staff – Mike Hadley).

             Mike Hadley presented the following:

             Mike Hadley – This is the preliminary plat that is accompanying the proposed zone change.

              MOTION: Commissioner Rogers made a motion to recommend approval of Item 2A to the
              City Council as presented.
              SECOND: Commissioner Fisher
              ROLL CALL VOTE:
              AYES (4)
              Chair Kemp
              Commissioner Rogers
              Commissioner Fisher
              Commissioner Andrus
              NAYS (0)
              Motion Carries unanimous vote


         B. Consider a request for a four (4) lot preliminary plat known Townsite Estates. The property is
            located at the northeast corner of 200 W and 400 S Street. The property is approximately 0.60
            acres and is zoned RCC. The applicant is Davis Anderson, and the representative is Brandee
            Walker. Case No. 2023-PP-016. (Staff – Carol Winner)

             Carol Winner presented the following:

             Carol Winner – The general plan shows this as a traditional neighborhood with the zoning as RCC.
             The applicant would like to remove this house and the conglomeration of sheds then split the
             property into 4 lots. The lots do fit in with the RCC sizes.

             Commissioner Fisher – What is the frontage on the lots on the left?

             Carol Winner – They are 40 feet.

             Commissioner Andrus – Will they be accessing from 200 West?

             Carol Winner – They will, the other lot with the house that will remains will access off of 400
             South.

             Discussion on setbacks for the RCC zone.

              MOTION: Commissioner Andrus made a motion to recommend approval of Item 2B based
              on the findings in the staff report.
Planning Commission Minutes
May 9, 2023
Page 4 of 10

              SECOND: Commissioner Fisher
              ROLL CALL VOTE:
              AYES (4)
              Chair Kemp
              Commissioner Rogers
              Commissioner Fisher
              Commissioner Andrus
              NAYS (0)
              Motion Carries unanimous vote


   3. ZONING REGULATION AMENDMENT (ZRA) (Public Hearing) Legislative

         Consider a request to amend portions of the City Code, to add Food Truck Park as a use and to allow
         this use as permitted with standards use in the C-2, C-3 and/or C-4 zone. The applicant is Yori
         Ludvigson. Case No. 2023-ZRA-002. (Staff – Carol Winner)

         Carol Winner presented the following:

         Carol Winner – Right now we allow food trucks, we don’t allow food truck parks. We don’t really
         have a place where they would be able to gather in one spot. This is to allow for permission to allow
         this. We looked into adding it to the Commercial Districts and we decided to add it to the PD-C section.
         We will need to change the code for that section as well as the permitted with standards section and
         the off-street parking section as well.

         Chair Fisher – I thought you said you talked about adding to the commercial zones, why just the PD-
         C zones?

         Carol Winner – If we put it in the PD-C zones it allows the Council to control what will be put in and
         to add any conditions that they may require. Carol went through the proposed requirements that are
         included in the packet. The regulations that you are seeing are regulations that the applicant has put
         forth, then staff worked with, and these are what staff is comfortable with. I do know that the applicant
         has some issues with the operating hours, and he will present his case after I finish. The reason why
         staff indicated that trucks cannot be at the food truck park between 12:00 am and 6:00 am is 1. They
         have a chance to do the proper disposal at the proper disposal station for their waste and 2. It obviously
         keeps the food trucks mobile, because food trucks are mobile in nature, and we don’t want it to be a
         permanent structure there and 3. We feel if a food truck was allowed to stay in the park then we would
         need to drastically increase the parking requirement. You no longer have a food truck going and
         bringing their group with them, the staff would be driving cars to get to the food truck to work.

         Commissioner Fisher – Would it be fair to summarize that they are required to provide the same things
         a building would need to provide?

         Carol Winner – Yes.

         Yori Ludvigson – Here are some of the advantages of a food truck park. We would build a commercial
         kitchen. This will allow food trucks to prep food here, right now there is only one place in town
         Catering Concepts that everyone is trying to use now. There really won’t be a need for the trucks to
Planning Commission Minutes
May 9, 2023
Page 5 of 10

         leave at night because you will have everything onsite. They will be able to dump onsite because we
         will have utilities, kitchen, and bathrooms onsite. We will have 2 food trucks that we run and then there
         will be others that will rotate through. As we met with the City and the Public Health Department then
         they wanted a commissary kitchen onsite.

         Chair Kemp – But you don’t need that onsite, most Commissary kitchens are in the Industrial Parks.

         Jami Brackin – It’s actually more than just a dump for sewer. That is what we are going to clarify. It is
         specific waste water that has to be separated from the regular waste water which is why you have the
         grease separator and why they require that they dump at the Waste Water Treatment Plant right now.
         They may or may not be able to get that kind of treatment onsite.

         Yori Ludvigson – They wouldn’t have to move their truck every night because they would have
         everything right there. It would be just like Catering Concepts, there is a dump right in front of the
         building and everybody dumps there. Looking at other Cities it’s helpful that you have one place for
         the health department to check trailers. It would help here because everybody is hunting for spots,
         everybody is in the same boat that way.

         Chair Kemp – How many stalls can you fit on there?

         Yori Ludvigson – 8 stalls.

         Chair Kemp – How will you rotate them through? Will it be who will pay the most, how will it work?

         Yori Ludvigson – They will rotate through. I have about everyone in town talk to us already. Obviously,
         we will leave our trucks there.

         Commissioner Rogers – If you have this planned, do you have circulation for a truck pulling a trailer
         to circulate through and park the trailer?

         Yori Ludvigson – Yes. A lot of BBQ trucks are big. Our plan was a 30 x 30 table seating under covered
         seating. It’s a place to hang out. It’s clean, it’s safe, it’s a place to hang out. I don’t see the point of
         making them move every day if they have everything there that they need.

         Chair Kemp – How would you feel if you didn’t have to leave every night, but you need to rotate them
         to a different spot every week or two. I think the staff is trying to ensure that it does not become a
         permanent location on wheels. So instead of saying you have to leave from midnight to 6:00 am, they
         can stay but they have to rotate to a different spot so that keeps them mobile.

         Commissioner Rogers – But if they do that it creates additional parking requirements because it puts a
         strain on the design to fit everything in there. You park your food truck, then the people working the
         food truck have to drive their vehicles to the site every day.

         Jami Brackin – When we were drafting these we talked to our Waste Water and I’m not sure that they
         will be able to dump the waste water onsite, all the waste dumped in one location can be a big stress
         on the system. I’m not sure they are going to approve a dump site. The waste water department may
         want them to dump it at the waste water department. These trucks may have to leave to go dump
Planning Commission Minutes
May 9, 2023
Page 6 of 10

         anyway and if they have to leave to go dump they may as well go home and keep the mobility of the
         process.

         Commissioner Kemp – We are requiring Mr. Ludvigson 99%, maybe 105% of what we are a brick-
         and-mortar business. It would be easier to build a small building and have a bunch of outdoor seating,
         which gets you completely away from the concept of a food truck park. The fact that the pads have to
         be paved, I don’t see why the pads have to be paved. Does the car park have to be paved?

         Yori Ludvigson – In other locations it’s gravel plus.

         Jami Brackin – Food trucks have to be on pavement, under the current regulations.

         Discussion continued regarding mobility of the trucks and whether they should be required to move
         each night.

         Commissioner Rogers – I think the rest rooms are a great idea. The commissary kitchen I don’t think
         is necessary, that puts more stress on the developer.

         Chair Kemp – This is a proposal you have made and now we are looking at making it code. Every food
         truck will have to use your recommendations from now on or it will have to change the code.

         Yori Ludvigson – My recommendation wasn’t to do all that at first, but after talking with the City and
         the Health Department that has been here is what you need to do. So, we are willing to do that.

         Chair Kemp – So if you build all of that then it will be a permanent thing. That’s what it will be from
         now on.

         Yori Ludvigson – Yes, so why would I move my truck?

         Jami Brackin – The question is what makes this different than a restaurant? Does it need a Commissary,
         no, that was the proposal, but what are the public safety, health, and welfare that we want? We try to
         look at this for every possible property. As we go through this and make these recommendations how
         do you balance the mobility and the fixed site. Also, to balance the parking regulations. In terms of
         regulating food trucks, the state statute prevent us from regulating the number of days, but not the
         hours.

         Commissioner Fisher – This is an ordinance, it will affect him, and we should listen to what he is trying
         to propose. But then we should discuss this as an ordinance and see what we are trying to accomplish.
         It may be that we say that a commissary kitchen isn’t necessary.

         Yori Ludvigson – It may be that a commissary kitchen wouldn’t need to be required maybe make
         minimum requirements and then if they want to go above and beyond that it’s up to them. The average
         parking spaces throughout the industry for a food truck park is 1.5 spots per truck, we went to 3 because
         that will be better. We talked with the fire department and made the lanes wider so that we could get
         the fire trucks through.

         Chair Kemp opened the public hearing.
Planning Commission Minutes
May 9, 2023
Page 7 of 10

         Sydni Ludvigson – I like how you mentioned the integrity, innovation, and efficiency. I think to support
         your ideas and find creative solutions is great and I think that is exactly what the food truck park is
         here to do. I love that you guys are willing to work with it and to find the creative solution cause that’s
         what we need. I think right now it’s hard to follow the rules. They are already putting out seating. I
         think a food truck park would make it easier for them to follow the rules. I like what you brought up
         about having the minimum requirements.

         Chair Kemp closed the public hearing.

         Commissioner Rogers – I think the idea is a great idea. I am in support of the ordinance minus the
         specific requirement of a commissary kitchen.

         Chair Kemp – It feels like we are creating a restaurant with a big open area, the commissary kitchen
         would make it like that. Bathrooms, I feel that would be important otherwise you’re talking about port
         a potties. And if you’re going to bring bathrooms in then you are already bringing in water, power, and
         sewer. It feels like there is a lot of stuff in here that makes this not a food truck park, that makes it more
         of a permanent situation.

         Commissioner Andrus – I agree, I think the way that this is written now, they basically meet all the
         requirements for any other commercial building. I think at the very least they should be able to park
         their trucks overnight. For me, the bare minimum for a food truck park would be paved pads for the
         trucks, trash disposal, restrooms, and minimum utilities. I don’t know how I feel about landscaping
         and permanent seating. I like the idea of permanent seating. I think it would be cool to have. The same
         with landscaping, it would be nice, but I don’t necessarily think you have to have it either.

         Commissioner Kemp – How do you feel about the garbage requirement? Requiring people to haul off
         their garbage is required now.



         Commissioner Fisher – One thing we need to be careful of is, I get that we are trying to not impose too
         much burden on what seems to be a transitory business. But the reality is that a park is going to be
         permanent and that there is always going to be at least one truck will be there. If that is the case, it
         seems like that everything that would come with a commercial site needs to be there. As far as the
         commissary kitchen is concerned, the only question I have is it seems like we are requiring it but if
         Jami is saying that Waste Water isn’t going to allow the dumping there.

         Jami Brackin – I think they are saying that what would be required to allow all the trucks to dump at
         the same site is going to be prohibitively expensive and I don’t know that the Waste Water folks would
         approve anything less than that. If you just have a paved lot and you have trucks that come on, that is
         a commercial enterprise. We still need to have parking and trash and all of those other things that even
         if it’s a paved quarter acre, you are still going to need things. What are you going to have to do? Is that
         really where you want to store all the vehicles? The public is going to be invited. What will you need?

         Commissioner Fisher – If we don’t think that it’s likely that the Waste Water Treatment would like to
         see a dumping facility there or that what they would have to put in is very expensive, it seems like to
         me, if we require the Commissary kitchen then if they can dump I don’t know why they would move.
         Unless as a City we don’t want to see another site where they can dump. So really it’s two issues, 1.
Planning Commission Minutes
May 9, 2023
Page 8 of 10

         An area where other trucks can come and dump, whether they are serving there or not. 2. Just a location
         for food trucks to come and conduct business. If there is no kitchen on a park, then the ordinance needs
         to be different then what it would be if there were a kitchen. And if there is a kitchen then I think there
         needs to be an additional ordinance that addresses the dumping portion. I don’t know that we are there
         yet with this ordinance. I think we need to decide if we say a kitchen or not.

         Chair Kemp – I think the kitchen is a good idea. When we had the food truck discussion there was a
         concern about driving out to Bloomington to dump because it was a significant time and expense for a
         truck that gets 4 miles to the gallon. I think you would need to put the bathrooms in, and I think if
         everyone is going to dump there then you will need to put in a trash enclosure and have the trash
         dumped.

         Commissioner Rogers – I agree with having the dumpster enclosure, but I don’t agree that if you are
         going to have a commissary kitchen that you need to have additional dump sites for the trucks. That
         increases significantly the cost of the grease separator, and it puts undue stress on the developer. If you
         put the kitchen in you can put in the sand oil separator for just that kitchen.

         Discussion continued regarding dumping.

         Commissioner Fisher – It seems to me that we are at separate ordinances. There is no reason to add the
         expense of the kitchen if we figure out a way to manage the conditions that are created by one or several
         food trucks in one park with regards to the permanency of that. As much as we want to consider this
         transitory, it is not, it is permanent. I think we have to have an ordinance that addresses all of those
         things that are the concerns, just like a commercial building. We want it to be someplace nice, so it’s
         not an eyesore, so we don’t see trash. In fact, I think there are more issues concerning these outside-
         type services than we will have in an actual restaurant because a lot of things can be contained within
         the walls, and you don’t see them. I really think that the burden is going to be a little bit more severe
         on this type of area because so much will be outside the trucks. That is ok, it is all manageable, but it
         seems to me that as to the kitchen and the dumping area, we need to separate it into two different
         ordinances. I think as we analyze it separately we will start to see more issues than just trucks and
         dumping. I would rather anticipate the potential problems before we take them out. I think if we don’t
         do that we will create an eyesore. Will it be convenient for people? Sure, but it won’t be what we want
         to see when we are driving down Bluff Street or down the Boulevard. What I would suggest is this
         might be a little early in the stages. We could perhaps get some more drafting. We need to see it
         independent of a project and deal with it as a City. I worry about all those areas that are traditional
         zones that are not PD zones, and they want to have this.

         Chair Kemp – What happens when someone wants to do one of these out in one of the industrial parks?
         I think that the commissary kitchen and some of these other issues, I agree with Nathan, there needs to
         be some separation to where the code says you can do this but if you want to do more, or if you are in
         these certain areas, which we will control because it’s PD-C then you need to up your game to this and
         this.

         Commissioner Rogers – I am in big support of landscaping trees and tables. In addition to that, if you
         have that many trucks coming, I think there needs to be a manager’s office at the location so that they
         are there the entire time to manage the trucks. That would be more critical to me than a commissary
         kitchen, to have somebody onsite. I think that’s problematic if you don’t, especially if the developer is
         taking responsibility for the site, for the cleanup.
Planning Commission Minutes
May 9, 2023
Page 9 of 10


           Discussion on hours of operation or leaving the trucks onsite overnight.

           Commissioner Rogers – I see that there could be temporary locations. Washington City is doing a
           temporary food truck park on Telegraph and Main Street.

           Chair Kemp – Maybe staff could take into account temporary or permanent locations.


            MOTION: Commissioner Rogers made a motion to continue this item.
            SECOND: Commissioner Fisher
            ROLL CALL VOTE:
            AYES (4)
            Chair Kemp
            Commissioner Rogers
            Commissioner Fisher
            Commissioner Andrus
            NAYS (0)
            Motion Carries unanimous vote



   4. MINUTES
      Consider a request to approve the meeting minutes from the April 25, 2023, meeting.

       MOTION: Commissioner Andrus made a motion to approve the minutes.
       SECOND: Commissioner Fisher
       ROLL CALL VOTE:
       AYES (4)
       Chair Kemp
       Commissioner Rogers
       Commissioner Fisher
       Commissioner Andrus
       NAYS (0)
       Motion Carries unanimous vote


   5. CITY COUNCIL ACTIONS

      Jim Bolser the Community Development Director will report on items heard at the May 4, 2023, City
      Council meeting.

      1.   2023-PDA-002 Atara Resort at Desert Color
      2.   2023-PP-008 Atara Resort at Desert Color
      3.   2023-PDA-003 Cascade Collision and Tire Store
      4.   2023-ZC-001 Rosewood Townhomes
      5.   2023-PP-006 Rosewood Townhomes
      6.   2023-HS-001 Rosewood Townhomes
Planning Commission Minutes
May 9, 2023
Page 10 of 10

      7. 2022-GPA-011 GV-5
      8. 2023-GPA-001 Tonaquint Heights Ph 4-7
      9. 2023-GPA-002 Desert Canyons Business Park
      10. 2023-PDA-005 Mall Drive Professional Office
      11. 2023-DA-002 St. George Storage Facility
      12. 2022-PDA-052 STG Storage Facility
      13. 2023-CUP-001 160 N Bluff St
      14. 2022-HS-005 Commerce Point West
      15. 2022-HS-018 150 N Don Lee Drive

   6. ADJOURN

       MOTION: Commissioner Fisher made a motion to adjourn
       SECOND: Commissioner Andrus
       ROLL CALL VOTE:
       AYES (4)
       Chair Kemp
       Commissioner Rogers
       Commissioner Fisher
       Commissioner Andrus
       NAYS (0)
       Motion Carries unanimous vote
