 
 
Kearns city 
 
Who is filling out this report? 
Bianca Paulino 
Long Range Planner II 
bipaulino@msd.utah.gov 
385-377-7147 
 
Provide the following information for your moderate-income housing element: 
 
 
Link to adoption resolution or ordinance: 
https://msd.utah.gov/DocumentCenter/View/738/Resolution-2023-01-02 
 
 
Link to general plan, moderate income housing element: 
https://msd.utah.gov/DocumentCenter/View/442/Kearns-Moderate-Income-Housing-Plan-2022 
 
You will not be able to go back in the survey after making this selection. Please make 
sure you have entered all information up to this point. TYPE OF REPORT Please choose 
from the following options. Nearly all communities are in year 2-5 of their reporting. 
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan tasks and timelines we reported on 
last year. 
398
 
 
 
We are in YEAR 2-5 of reporting on the implementation plan 
tasks and timelines we reported on last year. 
 
2-5 YEAR REPORTING The following section is for communities in YEARS 2-5 of reporting. If 
the implementation plan has been updated or amended, progress made must be documented in 
this section of the report. You will enter the following information in this section: 1) Shapefiles 
and data related to zoning, entitled units, and accessory dwelling units (ADUs) 2) Your 
community's MIH strategies (including changes to strategies - if applicable) 3) Feedback and 
recommendation regarding the MIH program 
 
 
ZONING MAP 
Zoning Data Statute requires that counties and municipalities provide their current zoning map. 
This document should reflect current adopted ordinances. 
Please be aware that zoning data submitted will be shared with the Utah Geospatial 
Resource Center. 
 
 
Shapefiles (.shp) must be uploaded using this link. After uploading the file, please type 
"Uploaded" in the field below. If a shapefile is not available, please provide a link to maps 
and tables in the field below. If you have any questions, please contact mih@utah.gov. 
https://tech-gslmsd.hub.arcgis.com/apps/e5c967d7b17b4cbe863c6d73267c333a/explore 
 
When did the last zoning map or text amendment occur? 
28- May-25 
 
ENTITLED UNITS The following questions ask about entitled units. Entitled units are units that 
are legally allowed to be built under current zoning, existing development agreement, or other 
legal mechanism, (e.g., overlay zone). This data is collected to capture current built or zoned 
conditions. Please report entitled unit data as of May 1, 2025. 
Do not include any parcels or 
units that are only planned or in the process of being rezoned as residential. Example: if a 
parcel is zoned greenbelt on May 1, 2025 and a rezone application is in process, do not count it 
in this data. 
If some parcels can’t be developed due to barriers like geography, setbacks, or 
lack of infrastructure, you can explain these issues in the barriers or narrative sections of your 
report. 
 
 
Provide a count of entitled residential units (as defined above) that have NOT received a 
building permit. 
Approx. 254 units 
399
 
 
Less the units, parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous question, provide 
a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that include an overlay zone and the 
number of residential units that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that 
have NOT pulled a building permit. 
0 units 
 
Less the units parcels, lots, or developments reported in the previous two questions, 
provide a count of vacant parcels, lots, or developments that are currently zoned 
residential (single family, townhome, multi family, etc) and the number of residential units 
that could be built on said parcel, lot, or development that have NOT pulled a building 
permit. 
Approx. 16 units 
 
From the counts reported above, provide a count of the entitled residential units which 
have received will serve letters from utilities or an equivalent that shows that all utilities 
and infrastructure (i.e. roads, water, sewer, power, phone, gas) are complete for the units, 
parcels, or lots. 
Approx. 0 units 
 
 
Describe any barriers to developing these units that have been experienced. These 
barriers could include infrastructure, public concerns, geographic constraints, etc. 
Providing detail here allows us to share the experiences and needs of communities to 
support the data reported above. 
In Kearns, several barriers have impacted the progress of new development, particularly for 
moderate-income housing. One of the primary challenges is that Kearns is a largely built-out 
community with very limited vacant land available. This makes new development opportunities 
rare and often forces projects to rely on infill or redevelopment of existing sites, which increases 
both complexity and cost. For example, the Housing Connect project faces additional barriers 
due to its dependence on securing competitive state and federal funding, such as Low-Income 
Housing Tax Credits. Although the site is appropriately zoned, the use is considered conditional 
under Kearns’ newly adopted zoning ordinance, requiring additional review and conditions to 
ensure neighborhood compatibility. These barriers highlight the limited development 
opportunities in Kearns, which is reflected in the community’s overall housing strategies and the 
focus on supporting infill, redevelopment, and public-private partnerships. 
 
Provide any notes or explanations for the data entered above (e.g., upcoming 
developments, clarifying data, context, etc.). 
Throughout the reporting year, the City of Kearns has worked to support the Housing Connect 
project in several ways. The city provided a formal letter of support for the development and 
partnered with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) to waive application 
fees, helping reduce upfront costs. In July 2025, the Kearns City Council approved a conditional 
use permit for the proposed 50-unit affordable housing development. While no units have been 
built yet, the project is expected to move forward once funding is secured. 
400
 
 
 
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS 
 
The following questions ask about the number of Accessory Dwelling Units (internal, external, 
detached) in your county or municipality as of the report submission date. 
 
 
How does the county or municipality track known "for-rent" Accessory Dwelling Units? 
(select one) 
Count of building permits issued 
 
Total known number of Accessory Dwelling Units recorded as of the report submission 
date: 
6 
Total number of building permits issued to construct an ADU in the county or 
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025: 
5 
 
Total number of business licenses or permits to rent an ADU issued in the county or 
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025: 
0 
 
 
Total number of other types of permits or license issued for an ADU in the county or 
municipality granted between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 (if applicable, please 
provide the count and type of permit or license issued) 
0 
401
 
 
 
REPORTING ON STRATEGY PROGRESS 
The following questions ask you to provide detailed progress on the moderate-income housing 
strategies between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. A county or municipality must report on 
at least the minimum strategy requirements to comply in the subsequent report. 
 
1. Select a moderate income housing strategy from Utah Code that the county or 
municipality has included in its moderate-income housing element. 
(For the list of 
strategies, visit jobs.utah.gov/mihreporting or refer to Utah Code Section 10-9a-403 for 
municipalities and Section 17-27a-403 for counties) 
E 
F 
L 
O 
W 
 
2. Reference the Implementation Plan for this strategy and list the timelines and 
benchmarks that were planned to be complete between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025. 
You may include actions taken before the 12-month reporting period in this report as an 
ongoing action if it: i) clearly supports the moderate income housing strategy from the 
initial report (e.g., previously adopted ordinance, approved a land use application, made an 
investment, or approved an agreement or financing); ii) the new report shows the action is 
still helpful to making progress on the strategy. 
E 
As outlined on page 55, the following benchmarks were planned to be completed between 
August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025: - Staff implements the selected strategy as directed. (Q1-Q4 
2025) 
 
F 
As outlined on page 56, the following benchmarks were planned to be completed between 
August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025: - Staff audits existing ordinances and looks for incongruities 
with the Town Center Master Plan and General Plan’s Town Center Character Area. (Q2-Q4 
2025) 
 
L 
As outlined on page 57, the following benchmarks were planned to be completed between 
August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025: - Staff works with the Planning Commission, Council, and 
legal team to understand what revenue sources and fee structures are available. (Q1-Q3 2025) 
- With guidance from the Planning Commission, Council, and legal team, staff drafts a resolution 
that Kearns will not impose impact fees on moderate income housing developments. (Q4 2024) 
- Staff works with the Council and legal team to get the resolution officially adopted by the 
community. (Q4 2024) 
402
 
 
O 
As outlined on page 58 the following benchmarks were planned to be completed between 
August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025: - Staff works with SLCo Housing and Community 
Development to identify potential opportunities for partnership and expansion of programs in 
Kearns. (Ongoing) - Staff presents identified opportunities to the Commission and Council, 
seeking direction on which opportunities to pursue. (Ongoing) - Staff applies for grants, 
provides technical support, or conducts education and outreach with residents as directed by 
the Commission and/or Council. (Ongoing) 
 
W 
As outlined on page 59, the following benchmarks were planned to be completed between 
August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025: - Staff refers to the General Plan when drafting amendments 
to ordinances identified in W1. (Ongoing) - Staff seeks direction from the Planning Commission 
and Council regarding drafted amendments. (Ongoing) 
 
 
 
 
3. Describe each action taken between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement the 
tasks listed in Question 2. Include how the actions taken support implementation of the 
strategy. 
E 
Between August 1, 2024, and July 31, 2025, city staff took key steps to continue implementing 
Strategy E of the Kearns Moderate Income Housing Plan (page 55). During the previous 
reporting period, staff presented findings from the 2024 ADU survey and shared case studies 
and literature on ADU strategies and model ordinances with the Kearns Planning Commission 
and Council. These efforts helped inform the direction of ongoing work. Building on that 
foundation, staff developed and released an ADU guide and checklist in spring of 2025 to help 
residents understand the permitting process, applicable standards, and available resources. In 
summer of 2025, staff began exploring the concept of an amnesty program to bring existing 
unpermitted ADUs into compliance while maintaining health and safety standards. This effort 
was informed by prior research, community feedback, and direction from local officials. To 
assess the feasibility of an amnesty program, preliminary internal discussions were held with the 
Building, Planning, and Code Enforcement departments. These conversations focused on 
reviewing past enforcement cases, understanding regulatory challenges, and identifying where 
policy changes might be needed to support a successful program. Staff also revisited relevant 
case studies and best practices to guide the development of the program. Although no 
ordinance or formal program has been adopted to date, the City is actively working to identify a 
strategy that reflects community feedback and addresses key barriers. Staff will continue to 
coordinate with the Planning Commission and Council to evaluate the viability of the amnesty 
program and explore other policy, program, or project options that support Strategy E. 
403
 
 
F 
During the reporting period, the City continued implementation of Strategy F by building on 
ordinance revisions adopted in the previous reporting period. These included updates to allow 
higher-density residential uses, such as revisions to the RM Zone and the creation of new 
mixed-use zones like the Corridor Mixed Use Zone. These changes were approved by the 
Kearns Planning Commission and Council and align with Strategy F’s goal of promoting 
moderate income housing near commercial and mixed-use areas. To further support this work, 
the City applied for the Wasatch Front Regional Council (WFRC) Transportation and Land Use 
Connection (TLC) grant in September 2024 and was awarded funding in March 2025. The grant 
supports the 5400 South Corridor Study, which will also evaluate zoning, land use, and 
development opportunities along the corridor, including key areas identified in the General Plan 
such as the Town Center and Olympic Oval. Staff worked closely with WFRC to ensure the 
study scope reflects the City’s long-term goals. A formal Request for Proposals (RFP) was 
released in July 2025 to initiate the project. These actions reinforce recent zoning updates and 
lay the groundwork for future rezonings and ordinance amendments that will help implement 
Strategy F and support moderate income housing in strategic locations. 
 
L 
Between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025, the City continued implementation of this strategy 
by advancing the effort to explore an impact fee program. In the previous reporting period, the 
City identified the need to evaluate infrastructure needs and revenue options and committed to 
initiating an Impact Fee Analysis Plan. In August 2024, the Kearns Council adopted Resolution 
2024-08-01 to formally begin the impact fee development process and authorized staff to issue 
a Request for Qualifications (RFQ) for a qualified contractor. Through that process, staff 
determined that a preliminary analysis would be a more effective first step in evaluating whether 
a full Impact Fee Facilities Plan (IFFP) and Impact Fee Analysis (IFA) were warranted. This was 
due to uncertainty about there being enough data available for the plan and analysis. 
Throughout the year, the preliminary study reviewed projected growth, existing infrastructure, 
current levels of service, and potential capital improvements. Staff worked closely with the City 
Council to provide regular updates, including a formal presentation in July 2025. The study 
confirmed that impact fees are feasible for Kearns and helped the City develop a clearer 
understanding of its infrastructure and assets, including a full inventory of parks, roads, and 
stormwater facilities. These findings support the decision to move forward with a full IFFP and 
IFA following the next budget cycle. The City also continues to support the 2023 resolution to 
waive impact fees for moderate income housing developments as a potential incentive, which 
remains a key component of this strategy. The preliminary work completed this year provided 
valuable information not only for future impact fee planning, but also for transportation and 
moderate-income housing efforts more broadly. 
 
O 
Between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025, staff continued to coordinate with Salt Lake 
County’s Lead Safe Housing Program. During the last reporting period, a lead-based paint risk 
analysis was conducted in Kearns. In this reporting period, staff continued conversations with 
the Lead Safe Housing Program and received educational materials in English and Spanish 
404
 
 
about lead paint exposure, which were shared through the community newsletter and on social 
media. Staff will continue to pursue this program as a way to support the preservation of existing 
housing in Kearns. In addition, building on prior coordination with Salt Lake County Housing 
Connect, a development that supports moderate income housing received conditional use 
approval this year. Staff will continue working with Housing Connect and the City’s planning and 
development review processes to support projects that align with community housing goals. 
 
W 
Between August 1, 2024, and July 31, 2025, the City of Kearns supported implementation of 
this strategy by working with Salt Lake County Housing Connect on a project that will bring 
approximately 50 new moderate income housing units to the community. The City has been 
working with Housing Connect on this project over the past reporting year to help move it 
forward. The project is located in an area supported by zoning amendments adopted in 2023 
that allow for multifamily housing types compatible with surrounding neighborhoods. On July 14, 
2025, the project was approved as a conditional use under the revised RM zoning district. Prior 
to that, the City provided a letter of support for Housing Connect’s application for Low Income 
Housing Tax Credits (LIHTC). The City is also exploring ways to provide additional support as 
the project advances. To reduce development costs, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services 
District (MSD), in consultation with the Mayor of Kearns, waived land use fees for the 
conditional use permit and site plan review in support of the project. Based on staff feedback, 
the project was revised from multiple buildings to a single apartment building, and plans were 
made to relocate an existing daycare on the site to a new building at the north end to continue 
serving local childcare needs. Preserving the daycare and maintaining access to on-site 
services demonstrates a commitment to supporting housing that is not only compatible in form 
and residing single-family residential but also meets the everyday needs of residents in a 
walkable, family-oriented neighborhood. These actions demonstrate continued support for 
moderate density housing consistent with adopted plans and zoning. 
 
 
 
 
 
4. 
Describe each land use regulation or land use decision made between August 1, 
2024 and July 31, 2025 to implement this strategy. Include how the regulations or 
decisions support efforts to implement the strategy. 
E 
No land use regulations or formal land use decisions were adopted during the reporting period 
related to this strategy. However, the City laid important groundwork for potential future action 
by initiating internal discussions with Planning, Building, and Code Enforcement departments to 
evaluate regulatory barriers and explore possible amendments to support an amnesty program. 
These efforts are intended to inform future code updates or land use decisions that would help 
bring unpermitted ADUs into compliance. 
405
 
 
F 
Between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025, one land use decision was made related to this 
strategy. In July 2025, a developer was granted a conditional use permit for a residential project 
under the recently revised RM Zone. This action reflects the application of updated zoning 
regulations adopted in the previous reporting period. No additional land use regulations or 
rezonings were adopted during this time. However, the City continued building on prior city 
plans and zoning updates through the launch of the 5400 South Corridor Study, which will 
inform future land use decisions in support of Strategy F. 
 
L 
Between August 1, 2024 and July 31, 2025, no formal land use regulation was adopted to 
implement this strategy. However, on July 14, 2025, City staff presented the findings of the 
preliminary impact fee study to both the Planning Commission and the Kearns Council to initiate 
discussion on potential future policy direction related to impact fees and moderate-income 
housing incentives. 
 
O 
A conditional use permit was approved in July 2025 for a development by Salt Lake County 
Housing Connect that supports moderate income housing. The project is located in the RM 
(Multiple Residential) zone, which was revised in a previous year to allow for additional density. 
The City supported the project by providing letters of support for Low Income Housing Tax 
Credits and continues to coordinate with Housing Connect through the development review 
process. This land use decision aligns with the City’s moderate income housing goals by 
utilizing existing zoning tools to expand housing options. 
 
W 
On July 7, 2025, a conditional use permit was approved for a multifamily housing development 
by Salt Lake County Housing Connect. The project is located in an area where previous zoning 
amendments (adopted in 2023) revised the RM (Multiple Residential) zone to allow for 
moderate-density multifamily housing that is compatible in scale and form with surrounding 
single-family homes. This land use decision directly supports the strategy by allowing new 
multifamily housing within a walkable community and reinforcing the City’s efforts to support 
moderate income housing in residential zones. Additionally, in consultation with the Mayor of 
Kearns, the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District (MSD) waived land use application 
fees for this project to help reduce barriers to development. 
406
 
 
 
5. 
What barriers were encountered by the county or municipality between August 1, 
2024 and July 31, 2025 while implementing this strategy? Documenting barriers does 
not exempt the community from reporting plan progress The minimum required number 
of strategies must advance for compliance, regardless of the barriers faced. If no barriers 
were experienced, write "None." 
E 
The primary barrier encountered during this reporting period was internal staff capacity. While 
initial research and discussions have begun, further work such as reviewing local codes, 
enforcement histories, and developing detailed policy recommendations will require additional 
coordination and staff time. The City will continue working closely with all relevant departments 
to continue to advance this strategy. 
 
F 
No major barriers were encountered during this reporting period. Staff continued to make 
progress on this strategy through coordination with regional partners. 
 
L 
Initially, there was some uncertainty about whether sufficient data existed to support a full 
impact fee study, which led the City to pursue a preliminary plan and analysis as a first step. 
The results of that preliminary study helped confirm the need for a full Impact Fee Facilities Plan 
and Impact Fee Analysis, allowing the City to move forward with greater clarity and direction. 
 
O 
No major barriers were encountered. One minor challenge is encouraging more residents to 
participate in the Lead Safe Housing Program. Staff will continue promoting the program 
through outreach and education efforts. 
 
W 
No major barriers were encountered. Minor challenges included revising the site layout based 
on staff feedback and coordinating the relocation of an existing daycare facility on the site to 
ensure continued access to childcare for the surrounding community. 
407
 
 
 
6. 
Describe how the market has responded to the implementation of the strategy 
(e.g., units permitted, units entitled, deed restrictions, rezones, households displaced during 
redevelopment, changes in rents, etc.). 
E 
The market response to the implementation of Strategy E remained steady. A total of five 
building permits were issued for new Accessory Dwelling Units (ADUs), which is consistent with 
the number issued during the previous reporting period. Although a formal policy has not yet 
been adopted, the City has continued to advance Strategy E through internal coordination and 
research efforts. These early actions are intended to support future implementation and create 
conditions that encourage increased compliance and ADU development. 
 
F 
The market has shown some response to the implementation of Strategy F. In July 2025, a 
conditional use permit was approved for a residential development within the revised RM Zone, 
allowing for a total of 50 units instead of the 13 units. This outcome reflects the increased 
development potential created by recent zoning updates. 
 
L 
There has been no market response to the implementation of this strategy, as the City is still in 
the early stages of evaluating and preparing for a full Impact Fee Facilities Plan and Impact Fee 
Analysis. The adoption of an impact fee program will be considered once the study is complete. 
 
O 
During this reporting period, two households in Kearns participated in the Lead Safe Housing 
Program, which helps preserve existing housing by addressing lead-based paint hazards. 
Additionally, a conditional use permit was approved in July 2025 for a moderate-income housing 
development by Salt Lake County Housing Connect. These actions reflect progress in 
supporting and expanding housing opportunities through both preservation and new 
development. 
 
W 
The approval of the conditional use permit for approximately 50 moderate income housing units 
represents a positive market response to this strategy. The project is moving forward under the 
revised zoning that was adopted in 2023 to allow for compatible multifamily housing in walkable 
neighborhoods. No households were displaced as part of the development, and the inclusion of 
a new daycare facility ensures that key community services are retained on site. While the 
project is still in the pre-construction phase, it reflects increasing interest in building moderate 
density housing that aligns with the City’s land use and housing goals. 
408
 
 
 
 
7. 
Links to supporting documentation (Optional) 
E 
F 
L 
O 
W 
 
 
 
Attachment to supporting documentation (Optional) 
E 
F 
L 
O 
W 
409
 
 
 
FEEDBACK & RECOMMENDATIONS 
What types of support would be helpful to your community as you implement the 
moderate income housing strategies? (Select all that apply) 
Model ordinances.,Case studies for strategies,Staff resources,Guidebooks for planning and 
reporting,Education on partnering with nonprofit organizations or housing authorities 
 
 
Describe any recommendations on how the state can support the county or municipality 
in implementing the moderate income housing strategies? (If none, please write N/A) 
We recommend that the state provide more educational resources and assistance to help staff 
and elected officials better understand and implement moderate income housing strategies. 
This could include webinars or workshops focused on available programs, funding opportunities, 
and best practices. It would also be helpful to offer more information about nonprofit housing 
organizations, their roles, and how local governments can partner with them effectively. 
Additionally, tailored training for public officials that would support more informed decision- 
making and stronger alignment between policy goals and implementation at the local level. 
 
If your community has a fixed guideway transit station or is within 1/2 mile of a rail station, and is 
required to adopt the Station Area Plan strategy, please ensure that you do the following: 
1) Submit your approved station area plan to your applicable metropolitan planning organization 
(Wasatch Front Regional Council or Mountainland Association of Governments). If they 
determine that your station area plan is compliant with state code, they will provide your 
community a written certification of compliance. 
2) Provide us (HCD) with the certification of compliance, either by going back to the optional 
attachment page earlier in this report OR emailing it to mih@utah.gov. 
For more information on this requirement, see Utah Code 10-9a-403.1 Section (10). 
 
Clicking the "Next" button at the bottom of the form will submit your report. 
410
