> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-01-21
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2020
 The City Council met in Work Session on Tuesday January 21, 2020,
 in Room 326, Committee Room, City County Building, 451 South State
 Street .
 In Attendance: Council Members Andrew Johnston, Amy Fowler, Chris
 Wharton, Daniel Dugan, Analia Valdemoros, and James Rogers .
 Staff in Attendance: Cindy Gust-Jenson, Council Executive
 Director; Erin Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto, Mayor' s Chief of
 Staff; Jennifer Bruno, Council Executive Deputy Director;
 Katherine Lewis, City Attorney; Lynn Pace, Director of
 Governmental Relations; Lehua Weaver, Council Associate Deputy
 Director; Kory Solorio, Assistant City Recorder; and DeeDee
 Robinson, Deputy City Recorder.
 Guests in Attendance: Applicants for vacant Council District Five
 seat : Annastasia Kaessner, Steve Quinn, Bill Davis, Jessica Gezon,
 Blake Quinton, Enrique Arce-Larreta, Michael Aguilar, Nancy
 Philipp, Zachary Bartholomew, Darin Mano, Karel Joy McDonough,
 Misty Snow, Alexander Zaharoff, George Chapman, Earl Robert
 Norman-Comstock, Jenny Hobbs, Crystal Young-Otterstrom, Murry
 Mullenax, Grant Miller, Amy J. Hawkins, Sarah Reale, Jason
 Stevenson, Rick Graham, and Carol Rogozinski .
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting.
 The meeting was called to order at 2 : 10 p.m.
 AGENDA ITEMS
 #1. 2:10:28PM BRIEFING BY THE ADMINISTRATION REGARDING ISSUES
 AFFECTING THE CITY THAT MAY ARISE DURING THE 2020 UTAH STATE
 LEGISLATIVE SESSION. View Attachments
 Lynn Pace briefed the Council with attachments . Discussion
 was held regarding tax reform proposal/referendum, Inland Port
 legislation, homelessness (Homeless & Shelter Services Sharing) ,
 affordable housing (SB 39-Affordable Housing Amendments) , sales
 tax base/distribution, water (any legislation affecting water) ,
 transportation/transit funding, tax levy by local redevelopment
 agency board, proposal to increase public safety retirement
 benefits, land use (subdivision ordinances/gravel pits) , billboard
 legislation, and airport legislation.
 20 - 1

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2020
 #2 . TENTATIVE BREAK
 Note: A recess was taken at 2 : 26 p.m. (moved to Council
 Chambers, Room 315 to hold Council District Five vacancy
 interviews) . The Work Session meeting reconvened at 2 : 35 p.m.
 #3 . 2:35:55PM INTERVIEW APPLICANTS FOR THE VACANT COUNCIL
 DISTRICT FIVE SEAT. EACH APPLICANT WILL HAVE UP TO FIVE MINUTES TO
 SPEAK TO THE COUNCIL ON TOPICS OF THEIR CHOICE. View Attachments
 Councilmember Wharton said this was a process the Council was
 required to perform according to State statute. He said for
 himself, this was a difficult process, as the remaining Council
 Members who did not live in District Five were made to choose a
 representative for that district .
 Councilmember Wharton said the applicants would speak in
 random order as their names were drawn.
 The following applicants for the vacant Council District Five
 seat were given five minutes to provide a verbal presentation on
 topics of their choice to the Council :
 2:40:41PM Annastasia Kaessner said she had a strong background
 round
 in local business, non-profits, treatment centers, and private
 commercial real estate/development sectors . She spoke about
 serving on the Salt Lake County Arts & Culture Advisory Board and
 Crew Utah Board of Directors, being collaborative, understanding
 growth, supporting alternative transportation methods/mass
 transit, and bringing a blend of private/public experience.
 2:46:12 PM Steve Quinn spoke about present/previous public
 service, working with the homeless, his creation of a non-profit,
 local union affiliation, being collaborative, local trails/hiking,
 accessory dwelling units/single-room occupancy, land development,
 and diversity being important .
 2:50:59 PM Bill Davis spoke about volunteering, public
 engagement, public service, civic duty, knowledge of City
 business, being collaborative/cooperative, mentoring community
 councils, being a decision maker, bringing a neighborhood
 perspective, being a resident and small business owner, sharing
 the values of the Council (walkability, green-space, air-quality,
 housing affordability, mitigating crime/homelessness, equality,
 diversity) , and being a problem solver. Letter of Recommendation
 20 - 2

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2020
 2:58:05 PM Jessica Gezon spoke about being new to local
 government, being a proud Utah resident, concerns regarding air-
 quality, public transit becoming more accessible, education for
 residents regarding idling cars, use of more electric vehicles,
 high-density housing negatively effecting infrastructure,
 encouraging drought-resistant landscaping requirements,
 homelessness, and the addition of transitional/low-income housing
 in new developments.
 3:02:14PM Blake Quinton spoke about being a local business
 owner, understanding budgets, love of Salt Lake City, bringing
 experience from traveling/living in other cities, addressing the
 housing crisis, providing builders with more options (paying
 toward fund for City built buildings or building affordable housing
 units directly into structures) , having knowledge of construction,
 ability to oversee policies/procedures, and air-quality
 issues/solutions .
 3:07:57PM Enrique Arce-Larreta spoke about growing up in Salt
 Lake City, educational background, family background/involvement
 in public service, diversity of Salt Lake City, being a bike
 commuter, and being a teacher at West High School .
 3:14:02 PM Michael Aguilar spoke about growing up in Utah,
 compassion of the local community, automotive industry knowledge,
 and contributions to his community: saving the Utah Pride Center,
 facilitating scholarship funds for Latino youth, placing service
 animals with veterans, assisting with fund raising for Planned
 Parenthood, and volunteering at a local school .
 3:19:12PM Nancy Philipp spoke about her family/growing up in
 Utah, educational background, working in different municipalities
 (California) , importance of zoning/policies and
 affordable/independent housing, economic health of the City,
 surviving cancer, and providing service information to the
 homeless.
 Note: A recess was taken at 3 : 24 . The Work Session meeting
 reconvened at 3 : 30 p .m.
 3:30:25PM Zachary David Bartholomew spoke about serving the
 homeless, being an educator, volunteering/donating for the women' s
 shelter, fund raising for security cameras for residents
 experiencing property crime, advocating for humane treatment of
 all people, setting up/running community events, neighbor' s
 20 - 3

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2020
 comments made on his behalf, vision for District Five (new
 community center, increasing bike/walkability of neighborhoods,
 rezoning along State Street corridor) , and the City needing more
 trees and better air.
 3:35:39 PM Clint Campbell was not present when his name was
 called.
 3:36:18 PM Darin Mano spoke about his family' s history in
 California/Utah, serving his community (various City
 boards/commissions) , affordable housing, educational experience
 (University of Utah & Harvard University) , understanding of City
 planning/urban design, Citywide transit
 (bus/bike/streetcar/Trax) , and high-potential areas of the City
 (Station Center, State Street corridor, 9-Line, etc . ) . Letters of
 Recommendation
 3:41:06PM Karel Joy McDonough spoke about representing the
 residents/businesses of District Five, living in the district for
 53 years, involvement in community activities, preference for
 existing housing being maintained, community gardening, wide
 variety of experience/knowledge, previous campaigning experience,
 service/experience on various boards, and learning
 patience/tolerance through teaching.
 3:46:12PM Misty Snow spoke about previously running for the Utah
 State Senate, growing up in Salt Lake City, pedestrian/public
 transit homeless issues in Salt Lake City, and representing LGBTQ
 Y P g
 population in the City.
 3:51:28PM Alexander Zaharoff spoke about being a proud resident
 of Salt Lake City, growing up in California, passion for the
 environment/community, educational background (population
 health) , use of data helping the City make informed policy
 decisions, need for safe/sustainable balancing of multiple housing
 types, and quality & fairness being his most driving principles.
 3:56:35PM George Chapman spoke about local City issues (crime-
 magnet hotels, State Street expansion, North Temple development,
 etc . ) , needing additional personnel to speed up the building permit
 process, re-routing the Green line onto 400 West, the demolition
 ordinance needing to be changed, vacant/boarded buildings, the
 need for an east-side Police precinct, protection of small
 businesses, more maintenance for the City' s west-side streets,
 mass-transit use, and respect for fellow District Five candidate,
 20 - 4

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2020
 Rick Graham.
 4:02:03 PM Earl Robert Norman-Comstock spoke about moving
 to/living in Salt Lake City, qualifications for the Council seat
 (worked for/operated a homeless shelter, youth/adult correctional
 chaplain, starting a non-profit organization, involved with the
 Hispanic Democratic Caucus for 20 years, public school teacher for
 14 years) , and empathy towards the needs of lower middle-
 class/homeless/minority communities/at-risk youth.
 4:07:26PM Tammy McKelvie was not present when her name was
 called.
 4:07:48 PM Jenny Hobbs spoke about being a local entrepreneur,
 donating time/money to under-served groups in the community,
 supporting organizations that assist the homeless/further social
 justice through education, better mobility on City sidewalks,
 being an immigrant/advocating for other immigrants, and working to
 create a sustainable City (air/water-quality improvement, improved
 transportation, and infrastructure maintenance) .
 4:11:57PM Crystal Young-Otterstrom spoke about working with
 local community groups, ability to impact statutes as an advocate,
 identifying creative solutions to complex problems,
 knowledge/experience in all levels of government, looking forward
 to working on: clean air, East/West equity, densification,
 preservation, public transit, affordable housing, and bringing
 more public art to Salt Lake City. Letter of Recommendation
 4:17:28PM Murry Mullenax spoke about his experience being a
 surety bond underwriter, working knowledge of what made a
 successful construction project, knowing how to ask the right
 questions/make thoughtful decisions, and concern/passion for: air-
 quality, affordable housing, diversity, infrastructure, and public
 transportation.
 4:20:46PM Grant Amjad Miller spoke about his heritage, growing
 up in Salt Lake City, being a public defender (lawyer) ,
 facilitating community out-reach efforts, involvement in various
 community boards, being open-minded/amicable, and familiarity with
 City/State government .
 4:25:09PM Amy J. Hawkins spoke about affordability/stability of
 housing, safety of District Five neighborhoods, access to healthy
 food, quality employment/fair pay, helping revive a neighborhood
 20 - 5

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2020
 watch group, member of the Ballpark Community Council (Vice-Chair
 & Chair) , advocating for a crime-free community, accessible
 pedestrian infrastructure, helping create science-based opioid
 education for local schools, unique combination of community
 leadership, teaching, and scientific education/communication
 experience. Letter of Recommendation
 4:29:39PM Sarah Reale spoke about being an educator and public
 lands advocate, wanting to contribute to the Council' s
 priorities/work, being a Digital Marketing Director/adjunct
 Political Science Professor, advocating/promoting civic
 engagement, being a champion of the democratic process, experience
 working with legislators, college presidents, board members, and
 college students . Letters of Recommendation
 4:34:14PM Jason Stevenson spoke about designing curriculum and
 teaching citizenship classes for refugees, volunteering/working
 for the Utah Health Policy Project (HPP) and American Civil
 Liberties Union (ACLU) , serving on the East Liberty Park Community
 Council as a board member and Co-Chair, advocating for Medicaid
 Expansion/lobbying the legislature, and sensitivity to District
 Five' s complex/contentious issues (the Inn Between, public safety
 concerns, new roundabout on 900 S . ) . Letter of Recommendation
 4:39:54 PM Rick Graham spoke about previously working for the
 Administration/being a presenter to the Council, broad/detailed
 experience/understanding of City operations, working with the
 City' s diverse population/stakeholders, and knowledge of the
 City' s biggest issues (Inland Port, Operation Rio Grande, homeless
 resource centers, low income housing, and air quality) .
 4:45:25 PM Carol Rogozinkski spoke about the 14th amendment of
 the United States Constitution, growing up in Salt Lake City,
 service on various City boards, being homeless before utilizing
 the First Time Home Buyer program, embracing diversity, serving as
 Chair for the Salt Lake Central Community Council, and supporting
 local issues .
 Councilmember Wharton thanked the District Five candidates
 for their presentations/being respectful of the time limits and
 reviewed the next steps of the selection process .
 Note: A recess was taken at 4 : 52 p.m. to break for dinner and
 allow Council Members time for a final review of applicants . The
 Work Session meeting reconvened at 6 : 05 p.m.
 20 - 6

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2020
 6:06:00PM Councilmember Wharton outlined the voting process . He
 said each Council Member would vote for four applicants for Round
 One, and upon completion of the ballots, Council Staff would
 tabulate the votes . He said the results of Round One would
 determine the next steps in voting and listed the possible outcomes
 of Rounds One, Two, and Three. The ballots were then passed out to
 Council Members for voting and gathered by Staff .
 6:13:48PM Kory Solorio, Assistant City Recorder, read the Round
 One Voting Ballots into the record. Votes were tabulated by Council
 Staff and the following top four candidates were announced with
 the number of votes received as follows :
 • Crystal Young-Otterstrom - 5
 • Darin Masao Mano - 5
 • Sarah Reale - 5
 • Rick Graham - 4
 Councilmember Wharton said for those candidates who did not
 advance today, there were opportunities to serve on a number of
 boards/commissions, various community councils, and local non-
 profits .
 Councilmember Fowler thanked candidates for their
 applications/presentations and said that any candidate before them
 today could use her as a reference. She said there was a vast
 amount of experience/knowledge, passion/compassion, amongst the
 candidates .
 6:23:41 PM Councilmember Wharton said Round Two voting would entail
 voting for two applicants, and the candidates receiving the
 majority of votes would move to Round Three, the Council would
 determine whether to hold additional rounds of voting tonight, or
 postpone the final vote to the February 4th Council meeting.
 6:25:19 PM Kory Solorio, Assistant City Recorder, read the Round
 Two Voting Ballots into the record. Votes were tabulated by Council
 Staff and the following top three candidates were announced with
 the number of votes received as follows:
 • Crystal Young-Otterstrom - 3
 • Darin Mano - 5
 • Sarah Reale - 3
 Straw Poll: Support for the top three candidates to move to
 Round Three voting, and Council Members would vote for one
 20 - 7

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2020
 candidate. All Council Members were in favor.
 Council Members requested to hear from the top three
 candidates prior to Round Three voting:
 6:32:57 PM Darin Mano thanked the Council and spoke about his
 experience and how it translated to serving on the City Council;
 professional career as an architect, a small business owner, and
 working as an educator. He said his primary motivation was serving
 people and he was excited to continue that service as a District
 Five representative on the Salt Lake City Council .
 6:35:06PM Crystal Young-Otterstrom said she was grateful for
 the Council' s support and spoke about advocating for a dedicated
 turn light signal (blinking yellow turn arrow) for the intersection
 of 1300 South and 700 East, and how persistent, friendly/effective
 advocacies serving the neighborhood could produce solutions .
 6:37:12PM Sarah Reale thanked the Council and spoke about how
 she informed her students to be successful in her class; show up
 (attend class) , try (effort for papers/projects) , and care (pay
 attention to politics/listen/follow the news) , and how that
 translated when the class came to an end. She read from a student' s
 final exam, and explained how that student embodied her
 teaching/intentions/beliefs .
 6:39:38PM Discussion was held regarding how the next round of
 voting/candidate selection would occur.
 6:41:44PM Kory Solorio, Assistant City Recorder read the Round
 Three Voting Ballots into the record. Votes were tabulated by
 Council Staff and the following top three candidates were announced
 with the number of votes received as follows:
 • Crystal Young-Otterstrom - 2
 • Sarah Reale - 2
 • Darin Mano - 2
 6:42:58PM Katherine Lewis, City Attorney stated that as per Utah
 State Law, if there were two candidates remaining, and no majority
 votes, the candidate could be appointed by lot (drawing
 straws/flipping a coin) .
 6:44:03PM Discussion was held regarding how the next round of
 voting/candidate selection would occur.
 20 - 8

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2020
 6:53:24PM Straw Poll: Support for Round Four voting to include:
 two minute responses to "what differentiates you from the other
 candidates" , one vote each per Council Member, and if after there
 was a three way tie, then rank choice voting for Round Five. All
 Council Members were in favor.
 6:55:36PM Crystal Young-Otterstrom thanked the Council and spoke
 about experience as an effective advocate, understanding of
 municipal statute/City structure and legislative process, starting
 her political service on the Human Rights Commission (HRC) Board
 and service on various other boards, understanding of elections
 and issues facing the Council, bringing amplification to the voices
 of her district, understanding of zoning/policy, and
 strong/extensive budgeting experience.
 6:58:06PM Sarah Reale thanked the Council and spoke about having
 the skills/ability to learn policy, drawing comparisons of City
 operations vs . working at the Salt Lake Community College, being
 a part of cultural/policy changes, ability to bring people together
 for a common cause, build bridges, and make connections/be a great
 teammate.
 6:59:24 PM Darin Mano spoke about havingexperience with
 p
 planning/land use issues and how that related to the
 Council/Redevelopment Agency (RDA) , understanding of re-
 zoning/zoning text amendments, experience as an architect/urban
 designer/educator, serving on the Planning Commission and
 Redevelopment Advisory Committee (RAC) , believing in
 honesty/integrity, and building trust by listening to concerned
 citizens.
 7:04:51PM Kory Solorio, Assistant City Recorder read the Round
 Four Voting Ballots into the record. Votes were tabulated by
 Council Staff and the following top three candidates were announced
 with the number of votes received as follows :
 • Darin Mano - 4
 • Sarah Reale - 1
 • Crystal Young-Otterstrom - 1
 7:06:15PM Straw Poll : Support for appointing Darin Mano as
 District Five Councilmember. All Council Members were in favor.
 Councilmember Wharton stated the appointment of Darin Mano to
 fill the vacant District Five Councilmember seat would be made
 20 - 9

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING
 TUESDAY, JANUARY 21, 2020
 during the Formal Meeting.
 STANDING ITEMS
 #4 . 7:30:07PM REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INCLUDING A
 REVIEW OF COUNCIL INFORMATION ITEMS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS. The Council
 may give feedback or staff direction on any item related to City
 Council business, including but not limited to scheduling items:
 • Availability for Annual Council Group Photo;
 • 4th Avenue Well Project Funding; and
 • Scheduling Items
 See File M 20-5 for announcements.
 #5. REPORT OF THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR
 No discussion was held.
 #6 . CONSIDER A MOTION TO ENTER INTO CLOSED SESSION, IN
 KEEPING WITH UTAH CODE §52-4-205 FOR ANY ALLOWED PURPOSE.
 Item not held.
 The meeting adjourned at 7 : 10 p.m.
 14
 COUNCIL CHAIR 7
 Pfoli*A.
 Actin
 g C T RECORDER
 This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript
 as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio
 or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203 (2) (b) .
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the
 official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held
 January 21, 2020 .
 dr
 20 - 10
