| COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL

ORDINANCE #2019-07- (i
July 17, 2019
AN ORDINANCE OF THE COPPERTON METRO
TOWNSHIP, UTAH, AMENDING TITLE 17 CHAPTER 20
AND TITLE 18 CHAPTERS 16 AND 24 OF THE COPPERTON
METRO TOWNSHIP CODE OF ORDINANCES, 2001,
REMOVING THE CHOICE BETWEEN BONDING AND
COMPLETING STORMWATER IMPROVEMENTS AND
ADDING REQUIREMENTS TO PROVIDE GEOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION SYSTEM (“GIS”) FILES BEFORE PLAN
APPROVAL.

WHEREAS, the Copperton Metro Township Council (the “Council”) desires to update
and amend the provisions of the Copperton Metro Township Code that pertain to the
municipality’s GIS system to reflect current practice and to make conforming edits to account for
the incorporation of the metro township; and

WHEREAS, the Council also desires to adopt a related policy regarding its GIS system.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS, EFFECTIVE IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE POSTING OF THIS
ORDINANCE PURSUANT TO UTAH CODE ANN. § 10-3-711(1)(b)(ii)(B):

1, The “Copperton Metro Township Policy on Standards for Geographic Information
System” and related standards, attached as Exhibit 1, is adopted; and

2. Chapter 20 of Title 17 and Chapters 16 and Sections 18.24.070, 18.24.150, and 18.24.170
are repealed and replaced as set forth in Exhibit 2.

3. This ordinance shall become effective fifteen (15) days after its posting in three public
places within the Copperton Metro Township pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-
711(1)(b)Gi) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.

[Execution on following page]

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Salt Lake County, Utah, this_|~1 day of SUNS 2019.
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL:
oF
By: —\2 < / a _
Sean-Clayton, Chair
Date: $/ 4/2014
ATTEST:
Shinn uptreee
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk
MH
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Nathan S. Bracken
Metro Township Council Attorney
Council Member Bailey voting +e
Council Member Clayton voting he
Council Member Patrick voting Keie
Council Member Pazell voting hte
Council Member Severson voting Py }@i

EXHIBIT 1

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP POLICY
ON
| STANDARDS FOR GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION SYSTEM
| Purpose

This document provides standards for the creation and maintenance of geospatial data for

the use of Copperton Metro Township (“Metro Township”) offices and departments. The

overall goal is to ensure that a high quality, well-documented Geographic Information

System (GIS) is built for the Metro Township. This standards document is intended to be

a framework for building a robust and accurate GIS that will integrate with other Metro

Township data sources. The intent is to describe common standards to be used by all Metro

Township offices and departments in the acquisition, creation and maintenance of

Geographic data. It is recognized that when coordinating with other governmental agencies

the Metro Township may not be able to insist on absolute adherence to these standards.

These standards were originally created under the auspices of Salt Lake County’s GIS

Steering Committee (“GIS Steering Committee’) as established by Chapter 2.46 of the Salt

Lake County Code of Ordinances, 2001, and amended by Salt Lake County Ordinance

1619A. Where possible and applicable, the Metro Township will coordinate with the GIS

Steering Committee to implement and revise this policy, as needed, provided that all final

decision-making authority shall rest with the Copperton Metro Township Council.

Policy

10 Dataset Types -- A GIS database consists of a number of geographic datasets that are made
up of points, lines and polygons. These datasets are sometimes called layers, coverages,
themes, or shapefiles. The Metro Township uses data that is created by various entities
within the Metro Township, data that is created by vendors under the direction of Metro

Township and data that is created by entities outside of the Metro Township. The quality

of a GIS database is dependent on the datasets that make up the GIS. When mixing data of

differing accuracy any GIS product generated is only as accurate as its least accurate set of
data.

11 Base Dataset -- the Metro Township uses as a base reference layer the survey
control that is maintained by the Office of the Salt Lake County Surveyor. This
base layer includes but is not limited to the sections laid out by the original PLSS
(Public Land Survey System) survey.

12 Primary Source Datasets -- Primary source datasets are the datasets that are created
by Metro Township that have a direct or indirect tie to the base dataset. Some
current examples of this type of dataset are aerial photography that has been
orthorectified, parcels, the street network (centerline), and municipal boundaries.

13 Derived Datasets -- Derived datasets are created from other primary or external
datasets. An example of a derived dataset is the voter precincts maintained by the
Metro Township Clerk’s Office. In order to meet the requirements the creation of
voter precincts includes internal data such as municipal boundaries, parcels, street
network and external datasets such as state and federal legislative boundaries.

1

14 External Datasets -- the Metro Township may be required by law to use datasets
| created by outside agencies that may not be completely coincident with Metro
Township data. Examples of this type of dataset are census data, US congressional
districts, and state legislative districts. The Metro Township will always work with
outside data creators in an effort to make certain that the various data sets match
up. The Metro Township will not meet the specific requirements of an external data
creator except where required by law.
20 Data Responsibility -- Copperton Metro Township does not have a centralized GIS office.

It is therefore necessary to clearly define responsibility for data.

21 Data Creation -- Ultimate responsibility for any dataset lies with the office or
department that creates or acquires that data. This includes ensuring that the data
meets applicable Metro Township standards attached hereto. The responsibilities
of the data creator are more fully detailed in the sections below.

22 Data Security
2.2.1 Some of the GIS data that is created contains information that is sensitive

or confidential in nature. This data must be identified by the data creator as
being sensitive or confidential and access must be limited to those who have
valid reason to see or use the data. Procedures for ensuring limiting access
to sensitive and secure data are necessary.

2.2.2 Access to the data that is created by an office or department by default will
only be available to the creating entity. The ability to create and modify will
be controlled as well. The data creator may request that others be given
access to the data but this will not happen by default.

23 Data Sharing Internal
2.3.1 GIS data’s value increases synergistically, becoming more useful as more

GIS data is added. To this end it is the goal of the Metro Township to share
all information in a manner that minimizes the risk of exposing sensitive or
confidential information. A repository of GIS data for use by all Metro
Township users will be maintained by Information Services using
appropriate technology. Data will be moved into the shared repository only
a2 the request of the data creating agency. Data moved into this area should
be sanitized; meaning sensitive information such as social security numbers
should be removed or rendered unusable for specific identification.

2.3.2 The data in the shared repository will be read only. It will not be possible
for anyone to modify the data in the public repository. Any changes will
come from the creating entity.

2

2.3.3 It is important that when creating maps or map products that to be used for
| more than an internal work product the publisher and date of publication be
| identified. The data creators must also be acknowledged on any map that is
| produced. This can be a simple statement on the map suchas:

Map created by [ your Organization] in conjunction with the
offices of the Salt Lake County Assessor and the Copperton
Metro Township Clerk, Surveyor, Recorder, and
Department of Public Works.

2.3.4 It will be a rare occurrence that a map will not use data from multiple
sources.

24 Data Sharing External

2.4.1. The Metro Township will comply with all requirements of the Government
Records Access Management Act (GRAMA) regarding the distribution of
data outside of the Metro Township.

2.4.2 The office or department that creates or acquires GIS data is responsible for
setting the conditions under which the data may be distributed. This includes
any fees or charges for the distribution of such data, and the data format that
is used for distribution. Each office or department shall present proposed
fees for this purpose to the GIS Steering Committee for consideration and
recommendation. No office or department of the Metro Township may
distribute data that is created by another department. This is not intended to
prohibit the production of maps that use data created by other departments.
It is intended to allow the creating agency to have control over the
distribution of geographic and attribute data that they have created.

2.4.3 Metro Township offices and departments may choose to designate any
dataset they have created as restriction free for distribution purposes.

2.44 When a Metro Township office or department contracts with an outside
party to perform Geographic work and that contractor needs access to Metro
Township data that is subject to distribution restrictions the contract must
include provisions that restrict the contractor from using that data for any
purpose other than the scope and duration of the contract.

2.4.5 It is in the interest of the Metro Township to share data with municipalities
and other public entities within the Metro Township. This interest in data
sharing does not remove the requirement that the entity that has created or
acquired data have the final authority over data distribution.

2.4.6 Inthe case of data acquired from some outside vendor or agency there may
be restrictions such as copyright that may limit the use or

3

redistribution of the data. Procedures must be created that will allow any

| user to know about those restrictions.

2.4.7 When a Metro Township office or department contracts with a vendor,
consultant, or establishes an interlocal agreement with another entity the
resultant agreement or contract shall require adherence to the standards as
set forth in this policy.

25 Data Archiving Requirements

2.5.1 The Metro Township recognizes the long term value of geospatial data and
the need to establish retention and disposition standards, guidelines and
procedures for storage, management and access. GIS resources and
capabilities must be addressed in identifying what data must be preserved,
how readily available it is, and how it will be managed overtime.

2.5.2 The GIS Steering Committee will establish criteria, subject to review and
approval by the Metro Township Council, to determine which datasets,
maps, projects, imagery and/or outputs must be archived; how frequently
they must be archived; identify industry standards that must be followed
regarding metadata; establish retention and disposition procedures; ensure
ongoing training in archival requirements; and promote use of the Metro
Township’s geospatial resources.

2.5.3. The GIS archiving procedures should identify data accessioning
Information including data authenticity; establish file naming conventions;
address security issues, hardware and software considerations. The
procedures should include a retention schedule that identifies the datasets to
be preserved, including retention periods and any restrictions of access.
Data custody issues should address metadata documentation, media
migration and data conversion, preservation copies, disaster planning, vital
records identification and off-site storage issues.

3.0 Data Standards -- The technology used for acquisition of geographic data is rapidly
evolving. As a result it is very important to understand what methodology is used at the
time data is created. Constant evaluation of the effects of differing methodologies on the
consistency of data is required.

3.1 Projection and Coordinate System -- All data created by or at the direction of the

Metro Township will use the following:

Datum: NAD83
Projection: State Plane
Zone: Utah Central
Unit: Feet

4

Care needs to be taken in converting between projection and coordinate systems

| as some shifting may occur.

3.2 Geographic Feature Requirements -- All geographic features that have more than a
transitory existence require attributes that identify what the feature is. All
geographic features must be created from and referenced to the most accurate
source data.

3.2.1 Points -- Points need to be accurate for the use intended. An explanation of
the intended use of the point data will be included in the metadata.

3.2.2 Lines -- Lines must not overlap except where there is a very specific need
for the purposes of accurate data representation. Where lines represent a
network and there is an intersection the lines must be snapped to a node.
Lines must be created with the minimum number of vertices. Vertices
should not be stacked.

3.2.3. Polygons -- Polygons must close. Polygons must not have unintended gaps,
overlaps, or overshoots.

3.2.4 Attributes
3241 Each geographic feature must have a unique ID and a name as a

minimum. Other attributes will be added to meet the
requirements of the feature set. All attribute data must be
character or strings unless it is a date, Boolean, or a numeric field
that is used for a calculation.

3242 Attribute field names must mirror established standards.
Attribute field names must have descriptive names that helps
interpret the purpose of the field. When possible, domains shall
be used for attributes that have a definable set of values.

3.2.5 Metadata -- Metadata must be maintained for every dataset created by the
Metro Township. The minimum requirements are:

Data creator: office or department

Date of creation:

Dates of modification:

Description of dataset:

Method of creation, including source and reference materials:

Current projection and coordinate system

Original projection and coordinate system if different from current
5

Additional metadata requirements may be added as needed. Offices and departments
may choose and are encouraged to maintain more than the minimum metadata.
4.0 Coordination and Cooperation

4.1. The Metro Township has chosen as its operational model a decentralized GIS. It is therefore
incumbent upon all users and contributors to the Metro Township’s GIS to commit to a high

level of cooperation and coordination.

4.2 Exceptions and proposed changes to this policy must be presented to the Copperton Metro
Township Council for consideration. The Council will review all requests for exceptions and
changes to this
20 policy. Ifthe Council finds good cause for an exception or change to this policy, the Council
may
approve the exception or make a change to this policy.

6

Copperton Metro Township Public Works Engineering GIS Standards
Purpose
Implementing a GIS Data Standard will facilitate data sharing, integration, and compatibility within the GIS
system for the Metro Township. These standards provide GIS data guidelines for Copperton Metro Township
Engineering and the Flood Control Engineering Division in addition to policy 10-13, “Standards for
Geographic Information Systems.”
Objective
In order to maintain compatibility and consistency across spatial data platforms, it is the responsibility of the
owner of the data to complete the data requirements to the specifications listed below and described in
accordance with the Metro Township’s GIS Engineering Standards. The recent version for all Metro Township
GIS Standards can be found on the: http://slco.org/WorkArea/DownloadAsset.aspx?id=2147490121
The Metro Township contracts with Salt Lake County to provide certain administrative services,
including its GIS system. Inquiries regarding the GIS System should be directed to:
Alexander Rudowski GIS Specialist
SLCo Office of Flood Control
Engineering (385) 468 -6633
ARudowski@slco.org
Spatial Reference Info
e Projection: NAD_1983_StatePlane_Utah_Central_FIP_4302_Feet
e Geographic Coordinate System: GCS_NORTH_AMERICAN_1983
e Datum: D_NORTH_AMERICAN_ 1983
e Vertical Datum: NAVD_1988_ Foot_US
Linear Unit: U.S. SURVERY FEET Features - All geospatial data have to meet these requirements listed below.
1. Tolerances and Coordinate Precision
e Double Precision format and scale of 5 and a precision of 8.
e =Text format fields should have minimum of 10 and maximum of 150 characters depending
on type of feature.
e For Latitude and Longitude the format needs to be in decimal degree rather than degrees,
minutes and seconds. Decimal degrees must have 8 digits in order to maintain accuracy.
e A feature that requires vertical degree (3D Attribute) needs to have the Z factor included.
2. Spatial Reference Information
e §=Projection
e Geographic Coordinate System
e Datum
e = Linear Unit
3. Metadata Standards
e Abstract
e Purpose
e Contact
e Citation
e Attribute Data Dictionary
e Time Period
4. File Naming Requirements for Attribute Item and Field Naming
7

e File name and for geospatial data use abbreviated name.
e Use abbreviated attribute names for each feature.
e All features must have design date of completion.
e All geospatial data must be in Geo Database format (GDB).
| e File names will be entirely in lowercase.
e No spaces or dashes. Underscores are acceptable
e Common and Metro Township Abbreviations Standards must be used.
GIS Data Features Abbreviations and Descriptions
Transportation
1. ADA Ramps - wheel chair ramps for sidewalk use
Abbreviation: ada_ramp
2. Signals - electrical street sign indicating driving directions or conveying information
Abbreviation: signal
3. Signs - a sign indicating driving directions or conveying information to drivers
Abbreviation: sign
4. Crosswalks - a designated location on the road to indicate where pedestrians can cross
Abbreviation: cr_walk
5. Curb - the edge where a raised sidewalk meets an un-raised roadway
Abbreviation: curb
6. Striping — an indication on the road to guide and convey information to drivers
Abbreviation: striping
7. Bus Stops —rider access locations
8. Side Walks- indication of sidewalk features and condition
Abbreviation: s_walks
9. Street Lights- street light ID and wattage information
Flood Control
1. Storm Drain Cleanout Box (Manhole) — top opening cover to an underground utility vault used as an access
point that connects storm drain pipe lines.
Abbreviation: sd_cleanout
2. Detention Basin Inlet — an opening allowing the flow of water to be stored in a detention basin.
Abbreviation: db_inlet
3. Detention Basin Outlet — an opening allowing water to be drained out of a detention basin.
Abbreviation: db_outlet
4. Storm Drain Catch Basin — A device used to collect storm water.
Abbreviation: sd_cb
5. Bridge —a structure built for the purpose of providing passage over a body of water such as a creek or river.
Abbreviation: bridge
6. Culvert —a structure built for the purpose of channeling water.
Abbreviation: culvert
7. Pipe Line —a structure built for the purpose of channeling storm water.
Abbreviation: sd_pipe
8. Detention Basin Area — a low lying area designed to temporarily hold water.
Abbreviation: db_area
9. Drainage Area — an area of land where surface water covers the basin.
Abbreviation: drain_area
10. Fire Hydrants — for emergency management and geographic reference.
8

Copperton Metro Township Engineering GIS Data Requirements Check List
Project Name:
| Date: Submitted by:
Received by:
Data is required to be in the following ESRI shapefile/geodatabase format
Projection Coordinate System: NAD_1983_StatePlane_Utah_Central_FIP_4302_Feet
Geographic Coordinate System: GCS_NORTH_AMERICAN_1983
Datum: D NORTH AMERICAN 1983
GIS Data Features
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
Object: ADA Ramps 1. Surface Material material Text 25
2. Pattern pattern Text 25
Shape File: Point 3. Slope slope Float, Precision 5, Scale 2
4. Design Completion Date date Date
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
a 1. Head Type type Text 25
Object: Signals 2. Location locat Text 25
a one 3. Pedestrian Signal signal Text 25
Shape File: Point 4. Street Lights lights Text 25
5. Design Completion Date date Date
te Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
Object: Signs 1. Type of Sign type Text 25
Shape File: Point 2. Location locat Text 25
P “Foin 3. Design Completion Date date Date
; Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
Object: Crosswalks 1. Width of Crosswalk width Float, Precision 4, Scale 1
; . 2. Design Completion Date date date
Shape File:Poly Line =—* 3 — Polyline with Z factor
«te Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
Object: Curb 1. Type of Curb type Text 25
a, . 2. Design Completion Date date date
Shape File: Poly Line s'35) _ Bolyline with Z factor
«te Geet Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
Object: Striping 1. Type of Stripe type_s Text 25
‘le: P . 2. Width width Float, Precision 3, Scale 1
Shape File: Poly Line 3. Design Completion Date date date
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
Object: Storm Drain 1. Depth of Cleanout Box depth Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
Cleanout Box 3. Size of Outlet out_siz Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
(Man Hole) 4. Direction of Outflow dir_out Text 15
5. Rim Elevation rim Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
Shape File: Point 6. Invert Elevation Outlet invert Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
7. Design Completion Date date date
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
1. Type of Inlet type Text 25
Object: Detention 2. Size of Inlet size Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
Basin Inlet 3. Type of Material mater Text 10
4. Inlet Invert Elevation in_el Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
Shape File: Point 5. Rim Elevation on Bubble rim_el Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
‘ Up Box
6. Design Completion Date date date

GIS Data Features
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
| 1. Type of Outlet type Text 50
Object: Detention 2. Size of Outlet (L, W, H) size Text 50
Basin Outlet 3. Type of Material mater Text 10
4. Outlet Invert Elevation outlet_el Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
Shape File: Point 5. Rim Elevation rim_el Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
6. Outflow (Max cfs) cfs Float, Precision 8, Scale 2
7. Design Completion Date date date
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
1. Width of Drain width Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
art: F 2. Length of Drain length Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
Object: D '
ject: Storm Drain Depth of Box depth Text 10
Catch Basin ; ; ; .
4. Rim Elevation rim_el Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
5) Dat 5. Invert Elevation inv_el Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
Sh : Point =
ape File: Poin 6. Type of Inlet type Text 25
7. Design Completion Date date date
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
oo. 1. Width width Float, Precision 5, Scale 2
Object: Bridge 2. Low Cord Height height Float, Precision 5, Scale 2
; 3. Channel Invert Elevation invert Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
Shape File: Poly Line 4. Elevation of the Deck deck Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
5. Design Completion Date date date
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
1. Type of Culvert type Text 25
2. Width in Feet width Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
3. Height in Feet height Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
Object: Culvert 4. Directional Flow (N,S,E,W) dir_flo Text 10
5. Up Stream Invert Elevation up_elev Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
Shape File: Poly Line 6. Down Stream Invert Elevation down_el Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
7. Slope of Culvert slope Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
8. Design Flow (cfs) cfs Float, Precision 5, Scale 2
9. Design Completion Date date date
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
1. Radius of Pipe radius Float, Precision 5, Scale 2
2. Type of Material materi Text 10
3. Directional Flow (N,S,E,W) dir_flo Text 10
Object: Pipe Line 4, Upstream Invert Flow Line up_elev Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
Elevation
Shape File: Poly Line 5. Downstream Invert Flow down_el Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
Line Elevation
6. Slope of Pipe Line slope Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
7. Design Flow (cfs) cfs Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
8. Design Completion Date date date

Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
Object: Detention 1. Area area Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
Basin Area 2. Other Use / ex: school, soccer use Text 25
3. Capacity of Basin cap Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
| Shape File: Polygon 4. Design Completion Date date date
|
Area > nea C ; area Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
Shape File: Polygon . Design Completion Date date date
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
1. Transit Authority authority Text 50
Object: Bus Stops 2. Shelter/non-shelter shelter Text 50
on 3. Shelter Type shel_type Text 10
Shape File: Point 4. Routes Serviced rt serve
5 Bus Stop ID Se" Text 50
seus oP stop_id Text 10
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
. ee 1. Fire Authority f_author Text 10
Object: Fire Hydrants 2. Water Authority w_author Text 10
Sh File: Point 3. Flow Rate flow_rt Text 10
ape rile: Foin 4. In-Service/Out-of-Service serv_stat Text 10
5. Hydrant ID hy_id Text 10
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
1. Width s_width Double, Precision 5, Scale 2
2. Park Strip strip Text 10
Object: Sidewalks 3. Side of Road rd_side Text 10
4. Install Date in_date date
Shape File: Poly Line —5. Design Date des_date date
6. Condition condition Text 50
Attribute Needs to Include Attribute Name Type Accepted
- 4. : 1. Fixture Type fixture_ty Text 20
Object: Street Lights 2. Pole Type pole_type Text 20
4. Des 3. Wattage wattage Float, Precision 5, Scale 1
Shape File: Point 4. Pole Number pole_num Double, Precision 8, Scale 2
5. Address address Text 50

EXHIBIT 2

SECTION I. Article I of Chapter 17.20 of the Copperton Metro Township Code of Ordinances, is
repealed and replaced as follows:
| Article I. - General Provisions
| 17.20.010 - Purpose.
The purpose of this chapter is to establish and provide means, rules and regulations for the control
and discharge of floodwaters or excess waters caused by the construction of improvements upon
real property located in the metro township.
17.20.020 - Definitions.
For the purposes of this chapter, this definitions of the following terms shall apply:
“Building permit” means all permits except those issued solely for grading or for the purpose of
remodeling or repairing any preexisting building or structure, provided that no increase in
impervious surface on the property results from such permit.
“Design capacity” or “capacity of drainage systems” means the maximum volume of water per
unit of time which can be carried or accommodated by each component of a drainage system,
based upon size of the line, slope, and any other factors which affect the carrying capacity of a
line.
“Development site,” “development” or “subdivision” means the total area of a subdivision or the
total area of the parcel of land on which a building permit is to be issued or the total area of
property being improved, including yard space in the case of development of a part of a land
parcel.
“Director” means the planning and development services director or designee.
“Division” or “planning and development services division” means the director and other
authorized agents and employees of the planning and development services division of the
department of public works of the metro township.
"Drainage area" means that portion of a drainage basin whose drainage or storm waters drain or
gravitate toward a natural or artificial channel, conduit, retention or detention area; upon
designation of a drainage area upon a map referred to in Section
17.20.050, "drainage area" means each area so designated.
"Drainage basin" means that portion of the unincorporated metro township whose drainage or
stormwaters of the contributing area is made up of individual drainage areas; upon designation
of a drainage basin upon a map referred to in Section 17.20.050, "drainage basin" means each
area so designated.
"Drainage system" means all facilities used for conducting excess waters to, through and from a
drainage area to the point of final retention or destination, including, but not limited to, any or all
of the following: pipes, conduits, culverts, curbs, gutters, waterways, inlets, swales, ditches,
1

gulches, channels, retention and detention areas, and appurtenant features, as well as easements
and rights-of-way necessary to accommodate the same. In ascending order of size and capacity,
| components of the drainage system include the following: unit drainage system, intermediate
drainage system, major drainage system, trunk line, natural tributary, final destination. A

drainage system may, but need not, contain all of the foregoing components.

"Excess waters" mean those waters flowing upon or across a lot, subdivision, development or

other area of real property which are created because of alteration of or building upon the natural

terrain or other increase in the impervious surface of the property, which waters are additional to

the waters which would flow upon or across the unaltered natural terrain.

"Final destination" means a natural or artificial retention area which serves one or more drainage

basins into which excess waters are discharged, without subsequent discharge into any other

drainage system, facility or retention or detention area or facility.

"Intermediate drainage system facility" means that part of the drainage system which serves one

or more single units, subdivision or development drainage system facilities, which conveys excess

waters from a unit or subdivision, and which is tributary to a major drainage system facility, a

trunk line, natural tributary or final destination. Facilities within this system will be designed to

fully accommodate a ten-year frequency flood.

"Major drainage system facility" means that part of the drainage system within a drainage area

which is contributed to by one or more unit and intermediate drainage systems. A major drainage

system facility is tributary to a trunk line, natural tributary or final destination.

"Mayor" means the Copperton Metro Township mayor or designee.

"Natural tributary" means that part of the drainage system contributed to by one or more trunk

lines, major, intermediate and unit drainage systems; is a natural channel, ditch or river, and

which is tributary solely to a final destination.

"One-hundred-year frequency flood" means a flood flow of the magnitude which is expected to

occur on the average of a one-hundred-year frequency or has a one-percent chance of being

equaled or exceeded during any one year. Similarly, two, five, ten and other year frequency floods

bear like definition.

"Retention" means temporary or permanent accumulation of excess waters and/or other

stormwaters, and shall include the total or partial accumulation of such waters. In the case of

partial retention, the retention facilities shall include carriage of the portion not retained to an

intermediate or major drainage system facility, trunk line, natural tributary or final destination.

"Stormwaters" means a storm or flood flow of the magnitude which is expected to occur on the

average of a ten-year frequency or has a ten-percent chance of being equaled or exceeded during

any one year.

"Trunk line" means that part of the drainage system contributed to by one or more drainage areas

and unit, intermediate and major drainage system facilities within such drainage areas. A trunk

2

line transports excess waters to a natural tributary or final destination.
"Unit or subdivision drainage facility" means that drainage system which drains a subdivision or
other development area and which is tributary to an intermediate or major drainage system
facility, trunk line, natural tributary or final destination.
17.20.030 - Applicability.
This chapter shall apply to all development within the metro township. This chapter shall apply
to all portions of the metro township drainage system constructed or completed from and after
the effective date of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
The metro township, with the approval of the developer, where applicable, may include the
application of this chapter to facilities, and benefited areas served thereby, which were under
construction after January I, 1979.
17.20.040 - Owner and Metro Township Responsibility
A. It is the responsibility and obligation of the owner of real property to control and contain
or to discharge into a drainage system facility excess waters from storm or flood caused
by the construction of improvements upon real property in the metro township. Consistent
with the terms and provisions of this chapter, an owner's responsibility includes
construction, at such owner's expense, or in cooperation with other owners, or by payment
to the county of stormwater facilities impact fees as provided in Sections 17.20.710
through 17.20.760 of (1) unit drainage system facilities; (2) intermediate drainage system
facilities; and (3) major drainage system facilities, required to convey excess waters
originating in the unit or subdivision to a trunk line, natural tributary or final destination.
B. The metro township’s responsibility is to provide, at metro township expense, for trunk
lines required to serve unit, intermediate and major drainage system facilities in the metro
township, and to maintain unit, intermediate and major drainage system facilities
dedicated to the metro township, trunk lines, natural tributaries and final destinations
adequate to serve the various facilities and trunk lines which are tributary to them.
Additionally, the metro township may, but is not obligated to, construct intermediate
and/or major drainage system facilities pursuant to Section 17.20.160. The metro township
council, through its budget process, including review of amounts received under Sections
17.20.170 through 17.20.220, shall establish priority and determine each year which
facilities will be constructed that year at metro township expense.
17.20.050 - Delineation of Drainage Basins and Areas
As soon as practicable after the adoption of the ordinance codified in this chapter, the boundaries
of the drainage basins and drainage areas of the metro township will be delineated upon a map or
maps. The work shall be done by the planning and development services division or by qualified
consultants under its direction.
3

| 17.20.060 - Engineering studies — Maximum Volumes of Excess Stormwater.
|
| A, The division shall cause engineering studies to be made of all drainage areas within the

metro township. These studies shall be made to determine the amount or volume,

frequency, and course of excess and stormwaters, and any drainage system now provided

or to be provided for the drainage and control of excess or storm waters within said areas,

including location of outfall or disposal points. Previous studies made by the metro

township or others shall be considered in whole or in part if applicable.

B. These studies shall from time to time be updated or amended as necessary to reflect
changed conditions. Studies in individual drainage areas, developments, proposed
subdivisions, existing subdivisions or other property may be completed by professional
engineers for private developers under the direction of the metro township if the metro
township cannot complete the studies as soon as required for development due to staff or
budget constraints.

C. In conducting the studies referred to in this section, the analysis of storm drainage flows
and facilities shall be performed by professional engineers competent in hydrology and
hydraulics and shall be in accordance with sound engineering practices. Location of
existing storm drainage facilities will be coordinated with the division.

D. In all cases flows shall be based upon present conditions and potential for future
development of the metro township, taking into consideration the current elements of the
land use master plan of the metro township, current as of the date of the study, relating to
the drainage basin and other relevant factors, including changes in zoning or development
which are not reflected on the master plan.

E. The maximum stormwater release rate exiting the developed property into an approved
system shall be based upon the results of the above studies. If unavailable, it shall be the lessor of
the predevelopment release rate or 0.2 cfs/acre, unless otherwise approved by the Division for good
cause.

17.20.070 - Control of development excess waters.

The owner or developer of land to be improved or developed shall provide, at his own expense,
the unit or subdivision drainage system facilities within each development necessary for the
control of excess waters within the development. He shall also provide:

A. The intermediate drainage system facilities required to convey such stormwaters:

1. To a major drainage system facility in existence on the effective date of the
ordinance codified in this chapter, or
2. To a major drainage system constructed after the date of the ordinance codified
in this chapter,
4

3. To a trunk line, natural tributary or final destination; or
B. The intermediate and major drainage system facilities required to convey such excess
waters to a trunk line, natural tributary, or final destination as may be indicated on the
drainage area map for the drainage area within which the development is located: or
|
C. The facilities to retain excess waters on designated portions of the land to be improved or
developed or facilities upon other lands to which the stormwaters may be conveyed and
upon which the owner or developer has legal right to retain such excess waters in
accordance with Sections 17.20.530 through 17.20.590 of this chapter; or
D. A temporary area, not part of the proposed development, to allow runoff waters to absorb
naturally until the intermediate or major drainage system is completed, in which case the
provisions of Section 17.20.580-shall apply. Said temporary area shall in no case be less
than one-half of all the developed drainage area tributary to it; or

E. Shall meet all provisions set forth in Sections, 17.20.150 and 17.20.220—The owner or
developer shall also be responsible for safely routing the one-hundred-year frequency flood through
the development as provided for in the metro township flood hazard regulations. The metro township
retains the regulatory and approval function specified in this chapter in connection with unit,
intermediate and major facilities constructed by an owner or developer.

SECTION II. Article II of Chapter 17.20 of the Copperton Metro Township

Code of Ordinances, is repealed and replaced as follows:

Article I. - Metro Township Drainage System

17.20.080 - Generally.

The provisions of this article apply where the metro township installs, at its expense, intermediate

or major drainage system facilities to which intermediate or unit drainage system facilities of a

subdivision or development are connected. The provisions of this article also apply to any developer

or private person desiring to connect the intermediate or unit drainage facilities of a subdivision or
development to the metro township drainage system.

17.20.090 - Studies of Needed Drainage Facilities.

A, In connection with the studies contemplated under Section 17.20.060, the division may
designate areas where the studies shall determine the intermediate and major drainage
system facilities to be provided for the drainage and control of excess waters within the
areas and to convey such waters to acceptable trunk lines, natural tributaries or final
destinations. Previous studies made by the metro township or others shall be considered in
whole or in part if applicable.

B. These studies shall include a current estimate of the cost of providing the intermediate and

5

major drainage system facilities, and the computation of such costs shall include the
| expense of the studies as well as anticipated engineering design services, construction
| engineering and inspection services, land acquisition and incidental costs required to
| install such facilities.

17.20.100 - Design Criteria.

A. In conducting the studies referred to in Section 17.20.090, the analysis and design of
storm drainage flows and facilities shall be performed by professional engineers
competent in hydrology and hydraulics and shall be in accordance with sound
engineering practices.

B. In developing the studies every effort shall be made to promote economy in the proposed
drainage design by selection of facilities for accommodating drainage flow and the use
of materials and methods of construction that provide the most advantageous balance
between the cost of the facilities and the benefits received therefrom. Innovative
approaches that reduce the overall requirement or cost of capital construction shall be
encouraged.

Cc In all cases flows shall be based upon conditions of future development of the metro
township, taking into consideration the current elements of the land use master plan of
the metro township relating to the drainage area and other relevant factors, including
changes in zoning or development which are not reflected on the master plan.

17.20.110 - Map Requirements.
As studies and maps for individual drainage areas are completed in accordance with Sections
17.20.050 and 17.20.060 in areas where the metro township may construct intermediate or major
drainage system facilities, the necessary major drainage system facilities and intermediate
drainage system facilities, together with the design capacities thereof, shall be shown on the map
or maps. The map or maps shall be approved by the division and shall serve as designations of the
respective drainage area boundaries and the drainage system requirements within the area. The
map or maps will be subject to revision from time to time to conform with existing conditions, the
results of additional studies, and such other information as may be obtained from time to time.

17.20.120 - Designation of Benefited Area.

The division shall designate the area to be served by the intermediate or major drainage system

facilities to be constructed by the metro township. The drainage area shall be designated in a

manner consistent with the provisions of Section 17.20.050. The drainage basin or area so

designated shall be referred to as the MTDS (metro township drainage system) benefited area.

17.20.130 - Removal of Property From Benefited Area.

Upon written request from the owner of any property in the MTDS benefited area to have his land

excluded from the MT'DS benefited area; and (A) evidence that such land can be developed in a

manner consistent with the retention plan designated in Section 17.20.530; and (B) written election

6

in recordable form that the owner shall not make alterations or improvements that will result in
excess waters from storm or flood draining into the metro township drainage system, and that such
election is binding on successors and assigns, the owner's property shall be excluded from the
| MTDS benefited area. Requests for exclusion from the MTDS benefited area shall be considered
until final plans and specifications are approved prior to letting of bids for the construction of the
intermediate and/or major drainage system facilities to be constructed by the metro township.

Unless so excluded, all land within the MTDS benefited area will be subject to payment of the

stormwater facilities impact fee designated in Sections 17.20.710 through 17.20.760 as a condition

precedent to issuance of a building permit or construction of improvements upon the land.

17.20.140 - Responsibility of Owner or Developer.

A, The owner or developer of land to be improved or developed shall provide, at his expense,
the unit or subdivision drainage system facilities within each development necessary for
the drainage and control of excess waters within the development.

B. The metro township may undertake the construction of the intermediate or major drainage
system facilities required to convey drainage waters to an acceptable trunk line, natural
tributary, or final destination within or at the boundary of the drainage area, as may be
indicated on the drainage area or map for the drainage area within which the development
is located.

C. The developer or owner shall be responsible for the payment of a unit area drainage fee,
which fee shall be applied toward the payment of all or part of the cost of the intermediate
or major drainage system facilities constructed or to be constructed by the metro township
in the area in which the development is located.

17.20.150 — Stormwater drainage facility plans, specifications, and geographic

information system (“GIS”) data required.

A. Prior to the final approval of a subdivision or development plan or building permit
associated with a subdivision or development plan, or in the case of a single lot
development, a single building permit, the owner or developer shall:

1, At developer or owner’s expense, have prepared by a professional engineer
licensed to practice in the state of Utah, as required by the division, detailed plans
and specifications for the construction and installation of all unit or subdivision
drainage facilities for the control and drainage of excess water within the
development, or the part thereof for which a building permit has been requested,
and the carriage of such water to an acceptable intermediate or major drainage
system facility or to a trunk line, natural tributary, a final destination as agreed to
by the division, all in conformance with the master plan of the drainage area or
drainage basin as approved by the metro township, together with the estimated total
costs of these facilities.

2. In addition to the above required plans and specifications, before final approval
and the issuance of a building permit, the developer or owner shall provide to the

7

Metro Township GIS data corresponding to the approved plans. Any changes
| during construction will require additional GIS data to be submitted with the final
approved as-built drawings. All GIS data shall be submitted in the following

format:

i, All GIS data shall be submitted in conformance with Metro Township Policy,
“Standards for Geographic Information System” and the “Copperton Metro
Township Public Works Engineering GIS Standards,” as approved by the
GIS Steering Committee as ratified and approved by the Metro Township
Council and on file with Copperton Metro Township Engineering. The Metro
Township reserves the right to reject any GIS data that is provided and is not
in compliance with the above standards.

il. This shall be done at the developer or owner’s expense. If a developer or
owner does not provide the required GIS data, the Metro Township may
complete the work in the developer or owner’s behalf and the developer or
owner shall pay to the Metro Township the cost of completing the work at the
hourly rate approved by the Metro Township Council for such work. If the
developer or owner fails to pay for such work, the Metro Township may
pursue legal action to recover these costs.

lil. Developers with a cost as estimated by the public works department of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less may, prior to construction, petition
the Council for an exemption from the GIS requirements of this Chapter.
The decision of the Council shall be final.

B. In lieu of completion of the drainage system prior to final approval of the subdivision or
development plan by the metro township, the developer or owner shall provide a performance
bond guaranteeing actual construction and installation of the facilities pursuant to a schedule
approved by the division director, and must do so before recording the plat. A developer or owner
opting to complete drainage system before recording the plat shall also post an improvement
warranty period assurance of ten percent, or of the maximum allowed by state law. The Division
shall not accept said facilities nor recommend the release of the final ten percent of the bond or
the improvement warranty period assurance until updated as-built drawing GIS data is received
by :

Metro Township and all other requirements are met.

C. Upon completion of review and approval by the division director, the subdivision or
development plan or building permit may be given final approval.

D. Final approval and building permits for individual homes, buildings or similar
improvements (other than the subdivision and intermediate drainage system facilities) may
be given final approval only if-the owner or developer gives acceptable assurance to the
metro township that the drainage facilities will be constructed and installed as indicated
and approved. Acceptable assurance shall consist of an improvement warranty period
assurance of ten percent and any one of the types of performance guarantees defined in
Section 17.28.010.

8

| 17.20.220 - Temporary Facilities Permitted When.

A. The division shall approve temporary drainage solutions providing for on-site detention
or retention that will allow development to continue pending completion of the
intermediate or major drainage system. The temporary solutions shall provide the same
level of flood protection at all times that will be provided by the completed systems. All
extraordinary costs of temporary solutions shall be paid by the developer in addition to the
other costs and fees provided for in this chapter.

B. The division shall make the determination of the required scope of temporary facilities or
improvements prior to the issuance of a building permit or approval of a final plat or
development plan, whichever first occurs.

17.20.240 - Connection to Metro Township Facility Required.

Neither the metro township nor any other owner or developer of land in the MTDS benefited area

shall subsequently construct an intermediate or major drainage system facility to serve land

intended to be served by an intermediate and/or major drainage system facility designed to serve
such land and constructed by the metro township pursuant to the provisions of this Article II. Any
unit or intermediate drainage system facility constructed by an owner or developer shall be
connected to the intermediate or major drainage system facility constructed by the metro township
pursuant to this Article II, and the owner or developer shall be responsible for payment of the fees

required by Section 17.20.280.

17.20.270 - Facilities to Become Property of Metro Township.

All unit or subdivision, intermediate and major drainage system facilities and appurtenances
constructed or provided under this Article II shall, upon written acceptance by the metro township,
become the property of the metro township and the metro township shall thereafter operate and
maintain same. Written acceptance shall be given if the unit or subdivision, intermediate and
major drainage system facilities are constructed within the provisions of this chapter; provided,
however, that temporary or permanent retention or detention areas may be retained by the owner
or developer thereof, and such retention or detention areas may, but need not, be conveyed or
dedicated to the metro township.

SECTION III. Article Ill of Chapter 17.20 of the Copperton Metro Township
Code of Ordinances, is repealed and replaced as follows:
Article III. - Private Construction
17.20.280 - Generally.
The metro township acknowledges that a private owner or developer of property may construct

9

intermediate or major drainage system facilities that may be used by owners or developers of other
| property. The provisions of this article detail the manner in which such facilities may be

constructed by a private owner or developer and the manner and cost of connection to such system
by another owner or developer.

17.20.290 - Designation of Benefited Area.

The owner or developer shall request the designation of a drainage area by the division. The
drainage area so designated shall be that area to be served by the intermediate or major drainage
system facilities to be constructed, may include areas in addition to those requested, and the
division shall consider whether additional areas should reasonably be included, especially if it
determines that an area is unlikely to be served or will be less efficiently or effectively served by
another intermediate or major drainage system facility and can reasonably be served by the
facility proposed. The drainage area shall be designated in a manner consistent with the provisions

of Section 17.20.050. The drainage area so designated shall be referred to as the DS (drainage
system) benefited area.
17.20.300 - Removal of Property From Benefited Area.
Upon written request from the owner of any property in the benefited area of the owner's desire to
have his land excluded from the DS benefited area and (1) evidence that such land can be
developed in a manner consistent with the retention plan designated in Sections 17.20.530 through
17.20.590, and (2) written election in recordable form that the owner shall not make alterations
or improvements that will result in excess waters from storm or flood draining into the drainage
system, and that such election is binding on successors and assigns, the owner's property shall be
excluded by the county from the DS benefited area. Requests for exclusion from the DS benefited
area shall be considered until final plans and specifications are approved by the division pursuant
to Section 17.20.340 or sixty days prior to the letting of bids for the construction of the intermediate
and/or major drainage system facilities to be constructed by an owner or developer, whichever is
later. Unless so excluded, all land within the DS benefited area will be subject to payment of the
fee designated in Section 17.20.380 as a condition precedent to issuance of a building permit or
construction of improvements upon the land.

17.20.310 - Studies of Needed Facilities.

A. In connection with the studies contemplated under Section 17.20.060, the division may
designate areas where the studies shall determine the intermediate and major drainage
system facilities to be provided for the drainage and control of excess waters within the
areas and to convey such waters to acceptable trunk lines, natural tributaries or final
destinations. Previous studies made by the metro township or others shall be considered
in whole or in part if applicable.

B. These studies shall include a current estimate of the cost of providing intermediate and
major drainage system facilities, and the computation of costs shall include the expense of
the studies as well as anticipated engineering design services, construction engineering
and inspection services, land acquisition, and incidental costs required to install the

10

Jacilities. These studies shall from time to time be updated or amended as necessary to
| reflect changed conditions. Studies in individual drainage areas, developments, proposed
| subdivisions, existing subdivisions or other property may be completed by professional
| engineers for private developers under the direction of the metro township if the metro

township cannot complete the studies as soon as required for development due to staff or

budget constraints.

17.20.320 - Design Criteria.

A, In conducting the studies referred to in Section 17.20.310, the analysis and design of storm
drainage flows and facilities shall be performed by professional engineers competent in
hydrology and hydraulics and shall be in accordance with sound engineering practices.

B. In developing the studies every effort shall be made to promote economy in the proposed
drainage design by selection of facilities for accommodating drainage flow and the use of
materials and methods of construction which provide the most advantageous balance
between the cost of the facilities and the benefits received therefrom. Innovative approaches
that reduce the overall requirement or cost of capital construction shall be encouraged. In
all cases flows shall be based upon conditions of future development of the metro township,
taking into consideration the current elements of the land use master plan of the county
relating to the drainage area and other relevant factors, including changes in zoning or
development that are not reflected on the master plan.

17.20.330 - Map Requirements.

As studies and maps for individual drainage areas are completed in accordance with Sections

17.20.050 and 17.20.060 in areas where a private developer may construct intermediate or major

drainage system facilities to be used by others, the necessary major drainage system facilities and

intermediate drainage system facilities, together with the design capacity thereof, shall be shown
on the map or maps. The map or maps shall be approved by the division and shall serve as
designations of the respective drainage area boundaries and the drainage system requirements
within the area. The map or maps will be subject to revision from time to time to conform with
existing conditions, the results of additional studies, and such other information as may be
obtained from time to time.

17.20.340 - Design of facilities.

The owner or developer shall have the intermediate or major drainage system facilities designed

by professional engineers to accommodate the excess waters within the DS benefited area. The

plans, specifications, and GIS data shall be submitted to the division for review and, if acceptable,
approval. The GIS data shall meet the same requirements as set forth in 17.20.150(A)(2).

17.20.350 - Acquisition of easements and rights-of-way.

A, Easements or rights-of-way or property that must be acquired for the installation of the
intermediate or major drainage system facility shall be acquired by the owner or
developer, at the expense of the owner or developer. In the event the owner or developer
is unable to acquire any necessary easement, right-of-way or property, and upon owner's

11

or developer's written request, the metro township may negotiate to acquire the necessary
| easement, right-of-way or property, failing which, the metro township may (1) submit to
| owner or developer a map showing an alternative route (in which event the owner or
| developer will endeavor to acquire the necessary easements, rights-of-way or property for such

route), or (2) commence a condemnation action to acquire the easement or right-of-way for the

drainage system facilities.

B. Owner's or developer's written request for metro township condemnation shall (1)
describe efforts to acquire the easement, right-of-way or property, and (2) state the amount
offered the owner of the property. Owner or developer shall pay the metro township all
amounts to be paid to an owner of property for the acquisition of any easements, right-of-
way or property. The metro township shall be responsible for its own legal fees and costs
of the condemnation action.

17.20.360 - Construction of Facilities.
Upon completion of the plans and specifications by the engineer, and acquisition of the necessary
easements, rights-of-way or property, the owner or developer shall then proceed to cause that
portion of the intermediate or major drainage system facilities to be installed, at the owner's or
developer's sole expense, strictly in accordance with the plans and specifications thus prepared
and approved. No facilities will be covered or backfilled until the same have been fully inspected
and cover or backfill is authorized by the division. If any facility or portion thereof is covered
without authorization, the division may require the facility to be reopened for inspection. The
actual interconnection of the intermediate or major drainage system facility with any other county
line shall be done by the metro township, or by the contractor for the owner or developer under
the supervision of the metro township at the expense of the owner or developer. No unit or
subdivision or intermediate drainage system facility shall be connected to a major drainage system
facility until the division has fully approved the facilities as constructed, and until satisfactory
evidence has been presented to the division showing that all bills for labor and material and all
other costs of constructing the line have been paid.

17.20.370 - Inspection by Division.

The division or its retained engineers shall inspect the installation and, if the facilities meet the

requirements of the plans and specifications, shall give the owner or developer notice of

acceptance. Upon completion of the facilities, the owner or developer shall assign and convey to
the metro township all of the owner's or developer's right, title, estate and interest in the facilities.

The metro township shall thereafter be the owner thereof, and shall operate and maintain the

same, subject to the provisions of Section 17.20.380.

17.20.390 - Temporary Facilities Permitted When.

The division shall approve temporary drainage solutions providing for on-site detention and

retention which will allow development to continue pending completion of an intermediate or

major drainage system facility. The temporary solutions shall provide the same level of flood

protection at all times that will be provided by the completed systems. All extraordinary costs of

temporary solutions shall be paid by the developer in addition to the other costs and fees provided
12

for in this chapter.

| 17.20.400 - Temporary Facilities Permitted When.

Except for the owner or developer constructing a drainage system facility pursuant to this Article
III, neither the metro township nor any other owner or developer of land in the DS benefited area
shall subsequently construct an intermediate or major drainage system facility to serve land
intended to be served by an intermediate and/or major drainage system facility designed to serve
such land and constructed pursuant to the provisions of this Article III. Any unit or intermediate
drainage system facility shall be connected to the intermediate or major drainage system facility
constructed pursuant to this Article II, and all owners or developers except for the owner or
developer constructing a drainage system facility pursuant to this Article II, shall be responsible
for payment of the fees required by Section 17.20.380.

SECTION IV. Article V of Chapter 17.20 of the Copperton Metro Township

Code of Ordinances, is repealed and replaced as follows:

Article V. - Retention Plans

17.20.530 - Generally.

The provisions of this article apply where the owner or developer elects to control all or a portion

of excess waters within a development site, development or subdivision by a permanent or

temporary retention system.

17.20.540 - Plans and specifications.

A, Prior to the issuance of any building permit associated with a subdivision or development
plan, or in the case of a single lot development, a single building permit, the owner or
developer shall:

_oL At owner or developer’s expense, have prepared by a professional engineer licensed
in the state of Utah, detailed plans and specifications for the construction and installation
of all unit or subdivision system drainage facilities and retention system for the control of
drainage of excess water within the development, or the part thereof for which a building
permit has been requested, and the carriage of such water to a retention area. The plans
and specifications shall include provisions for overflow of stormwaters in excess of a ten-
year frequency flood.

pA In addition to the above required plans and specifications, before final approval
and the issuance of a building permit, the developer or owner shall provide to
Metro Township GIS data corresponding to the approved plans. Any changes
during construction will require additional GIS data to be submitted with the final
approved as-built drawings. All GIS data shall be submitted in the following
13

format:
| i. All GIS data shall be submitted in conformance with Metro Township Policy,
“Standards for Geographic Information System” and the “Copperton Metro
Township Public Works Engineering GIS Standards,” as approved by the
GIS Steering Committee and on file with Copperton Metro Township
Engineering. The Metro Township reserves the right to reject any GIS data
that is provided and is not in compliance with the above standards.

i. This shall be done at the developer or owner’s expense. If a developer or
owner does not provide the required GIS data, the Metro Township may
complete the work in the developer or owner’s behalf and the developer or
owner shall pay to the Metro Township the cost of completing the work at
the hourly rate approved by the Metro Township Council for such work. If
developer or owner fails to pay for such work, the Metro Township may
pursue legal action to recover these costs.

ii, Developers with a cost as estimated by the public works department of ten
thousand dollars ($10,000.00) or less may, prior to construction, petition
the Council for an exemption from the GIS requirements of this Chapter.
The decision of the Council shall be final.

B. In lieu of completion of the drainage system prior to final approval of the subdivision or
development plan by the metro township, the developer or owner shall provide a
performance bond guaranteeing actual construction and installation of the facilities
pursuant to a schedule approved by the division director, and must do so before recording
the plat. A developer or owner opting to complete drainage system before recording the plat
shall be required by Division to post an improvement warranty period assurance of ten
percent, or of the maximum allowed by state law. The Division shall not accept said facilities
nor recommend the release of the final ten percent of the bond or the improvement warranty
period assurance until updated as-built drawing GIS data is received by Metro Township
and all other requirements are met.

17.20.550 - Rules and Regulations Adopted.

The Division may adopt reasonable rules and regulations for design requirements, review and

approval of retention plans for developments or subdivisions consisting of more than a single lot.

Such rules and regulations may address consolidation of, location of, access to, and maintenance

of retention facilities.

17.20.560 - Metro Township Review.

The plans and specifications shall be reviewed by the division to determine that the retention system

as designed will control the excess waters determined under the engineering studies conducted

pursuant to Section 17.20.060 and that provision is made for overflow in excess of a ten-year
frequency flood. If the retention system as designed will control the excess waters within the
14

subdivision or development, the division shall approve the system. If the system will not control the
| excess waters, the division will specify in writing the deficiencies of the system as designed.
17.20.570 - Building Permit Approval.
Upon completion of such review and approval by the division, the subdivision or development
plan or building permit for construction of the unit or subdivision drainage system facilities shall
be given final approval.
17.20.580 - Temporary Retention System.
In the event the retention system is intended to be temporary, the property that is drained by the
drainage facilities to be connected shall be subject to the fees charged in accordance with the
provisions of Sections 17.20.260 or 17.20.380 of this chapter.
17.20.590 — Responsibility for Property and Facilities.
The metro township shall not own or have any responsibility or maintenance obligation for
drainage facilities or retention systems constructed pursuant to this Article V, unless such facilities
or systems are conveyed or dedicated to the metro township and the metro township accepts such
conveyance or dedication and unless the metro township agrees, in writing or by ordinance, to
undertake such responsibility or maintenance obligation. Upon completion of construction of a
retention system constructed in accordance with this chapter, and conveyance or dedication thereof
to the metro township, the metro township shall accept such conveyance or dedication.
SECTION V. Article VI of Chapter 17.20 of the Copperton Metro Township
Code of Ordinances, is repealed and replaced as follows:
Article VI. — Administration
17.20.610 — Administrative Responsibility.
The planning and development services division shall be responsible for the administration and
regulations provided for in this chapter.
SECTION VI. Section 18.24.070 of the Copperton Metro Township Code of
Ordinances, is repealed and replaced as follows:
18.24.070 - Street lighting.
15

Except as provided for in subsection E below, adequate street lighting shall be provided
for the safety and welfare of residents and businesses located in Copperton Metro T ownship
| through the installation of a street lighting system as part of subdivision development.

All street lights intended to illuminate the public street shall be installed in accordance
with the "Standard Specifications for Street Light Construction" as established and approved by
the public works operations director or designee. Street light systems shall be designated on
approved plats and installed accordingly.-

A, For all residential, multi-family residential, planned unit development, commercial, and
industrial subdivision developments approved after the effective date of this ordinance,
the subdivider shall install and pay the installation costs for street lights as shown on the
approved subdivision plat or site plan and to post a bond, pursuant to section 18.24.170,
guaranteeing proper installation. The subdivider must also provide a dedicated public
utility easement from each respective underground power source to each streetlight.

B. Items to be approved pursuant to the requirements of the "Standard Specifications for
Street Light Construction" include:

1. Appropriate distance or spacing;

2. Alternating sides of street, when applicable;

3. Appropriate illumination at intersections;

4. Location upon the property,

J. Street light type and decorative style based on street classification;

6. Height based on location;

7. Height based on location;

8. Installation methods and requirements; and
9. Illumination intensity, electrical specifications, and code requirements as
determined by the "Standard Specifications for Street Light Construction".

C. The subdivider or designee shall submit completed as-built drawings and the GIS data
corresponding to the as-built drawings, as required by Section 18.24. to the public works
operations director or designee within thirty days of the completion of the installation of a
street light system within a subdivision development.

D. The public works operations director or designee shall have the authority:

1. To enforce this section and to ensure that street light installation is completed in
compliance with all of its requirements; and

2. To vary the standards referenced in this section and to approve alternative street
light designs and locations when adverse topography, roadway geometrics and
design, the presence of natural vegetation, or any other adverse conditions exist
which would justify such variations and alternatives without being detrimental to
the public safety or welfare.

E. The planning commission shall have the authority to waive or modify the

16

requirement for street light installation in subdivisions upon finding that:
d. The subdivision is located in an environmentally sensitive area, such as the
Foothills and Canyons Overlay Zone; or
2. The subdivision will result in three or ewer new lots; or
3. The subdivision will not result in any other public street improvements.
SECTION VII. Chapter 18.24.150 of Title 18 of the Copperton Metro Township Code of
Ordinances, 2001, is amended to read as follows:
18.24.150-— Construction of Improvements.

A, Twenty-four hours prior to construction of any required improvements, the metro
township planning and development services division shall be notified so that proper
inspection may be provided and so that it may be determined whether or not proper
authorization and/or required permits for construction have been obtained.

B. As-built plans, profile drawings, and corresponding GIS data shall be furnished to the
planning and development services division of all street improvements, storm drain, sanitary
sewer, and water systems upon completion. The metro township shall retain the improvement
bond until such plans have been submitted.

C. Extreme care should be exercised on the part of the subdivider, the contractor and all
other associated agencies for the protection and maintenance of all existing or newly
placed improvements or facilities within the roadway sections during development.,

SECTION VIII. Chapter 18.24.170 of Title 18 of the Copperton Metro Township Code of

Ordinances, 2001, is amended to read as follows:

18.24.170- Performance bonds.

A. In lieu of actual completion of the improvements listed in this chapter, subdividers must file
with the metro township a surety or cash bond, an escrow agreement, or a letter of credit in an
amount specified by the mayor or mayor's designee to assure actual construction of such
improvements within a two-year period. A percentage, equal to the maximum amount allowed by
state law, of the bond amount for public improvements such as curb, gutter, sidewalk, road
surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shall extend for a one-year period beyond the date the
improvements are completed to guarantee replacement of defective public improvements. A
percentage, equal to the maximum amount allowed by state law, of the bond amount for live plant
materials in common areas shall extend for the maximum period allowed by state law beyond the
date of planting to guarantee replacement of diseased or dead plants. The bond or agreement shall
also secure all lot improvements on individual lots on the subdivision which are required in this
chapter.

17

B. If the mayor or mayor's designee determines that the required improvements should be
completed in a specified sequence and/or in less than this period in order to protect the
health, safety and welfare of the metro township or its residents from traffic, flood, drainage or
other hazards, it may require in approving the final subdivision plat that the improvements,
including required landscaping be installed in a specified sequence and period which may be less
than this period and shall incorporate such requirements in the bond.

C. Inspections shall be made within five days from the date of the request. If inspection shows
that county standards and specifications have been met in the completion of such
improvements, the bond shall be released by the mayor or mayor's designee within seven
days from the time of inspection and filing of the as-built plan, any corresponding GIS data
(as required), and profile drawings. If the bonds are not released, refusal to release and the reasons
therefor shall be given the subdivider in writing within seven days from the time of the inspection.

D. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accordance with the procedures set forth in
Chapter 3.56 of this code.

18
