COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ORDINANCE #2019-07-62 _
July 17, 2019
AN ORDINANCE OF THE COUNCIL OF COPPERTON METRO
TOWNSHIP, UTAH, AMENDING TITLE 14 CHAPTER 16 SECTION 010
OF THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP CODE OF ORDINANCES,
2019, TO PROHIBIT EXCAVATION OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY IN CERTAIN
CIRCUMSTANCES AND ESTABLISING MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR
REPAIRS FOLLOWING EXCAVATIONS IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY
The Council of Copperton Metro Township ordains as follows:

SECTION I. Section 010, Chapter 16 of Title 14 of the Copperton Metro Township Code

of Ordinances, 2019, is repealed and replaced as follows:

(A) No right-of-way of any metro township road shall be dug up or excavated and no

| approach, road, driveway, pole, pipeline, conduit, sewer, ditch, culvert, billboard, advertising
sign, or other structure or object of any kind or character shall be placed, constructed or
maintained within any such right-of-way except as permitted by and in accordance with the
regulations of the metro township engineering division.

(B). Cuts or open excavations on newly constructed, paved, or overlaid rights-of-way are
not allowed for three years. If an emergency cut or excavation occurs, the responsible persons
shall comply with any special conditions imposed by the metro township regarding restoration of
the roadway as detailed in Section C. Upon receipt of a written petition and a showing of good
cause, the Copperton Metro Ti ownship Council, may in its sole discretion, authorize an exception
to the requirements of this paragraph B and impose special conditions to ensure that the right-of-
way is not unduly damaged and is repaired in a timely manner at the property owner’s cost.

(C). Any person making any excavation, bore, or boring in or under any metro township
right-of-way shall, at their own expense restore the surface to its same type and depth of pavement
as that which is adjoining, including the gravel base material (at a minimum 3" Bituminous surface
and 8" untreated base course). All restoration shall conform to the metro township standards and
all restorations shall be accomplished within seventy-two (72) hours from the time of the
excavation, unless additional time is granted in writing by the metro township. If, the road has
been constructed, reconstructed, or overlaid within the preceding three (3) years, or the pavement
has been chip sealed or slurry sealed with in the preceding two (2) years the permittee shall be

responsible for the following:
1

New Streets, Reconstructed Streets, or Overlaid Streets: The asphalt surface shall be milled
down a minimum depth of two inches from curb (or edge of asphalt) to center of road and
resurfaced with asphalt. If the cut extends through the centerline of the road the milling and
paving will be from curb to curb (or edge of asphalt to edge of asphalt). Milling and paving shall
extend to a length of 15’ in each direction from each side of the cut. The metro township engineer
or designee reserves the right to require a length greater than fifteen feet in each direction and a
depth greater that two inches if there are special circumstances.

Slurried Streets or Chipsealed Streets: The pavement shall be re-slurry sealed with an
approved type II slurry from curb (or edge of asphalt) to center of road and a minimum of 15’ in
each direction from each side of the cut. If the cut extends through the centerline of the road the
application of slurry seal will be from curb to curb (or edge of asphalt to edge of asphalt)...

Excavation of metro township rights-of-way during the winter months (herein defined as
October 15 to April 15) will be allowed only if the work is a new service connection, required
maintenance, emergency or otherwise approved by the metro township. Permanent patching of a
metro township right-of-way excavated in winter shall be delayed until April 15 or later and the
outdoor ambient temperature is 50 degrees and rising. The permittee will maintain a temporary

patch until such time as the permanent surfacing is accomplished. The temporary patch will
provide a smooth driving surface and be restored within 72 hours of being notified that repairs
are required.

(D). Any person who violates the provisions of this section is guilty of a Class C

misdemeanor,
SECTION II. This ordinance shall become effective fifteen (15) days after its posting in
three public places within the Copperton Metro Township pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-
711(1)(b)Gi) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.
[Execution on following page]
2

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Salt Lake County, Utah, this | | day of
hus ly , 2019.
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL:
o gee
Sean Clayton, Chair
Date: cls li —————
ATTEST:
wy) RAL ; P; du rn AY
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk
///
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Nathan S. Bracken
Metro Township Council Attorney
Council Member Bailey voting Mae.
Council Member Clayton voting AYe
Council Member Patrick voting Ate
Council Member Pazell voting bye.
Council Member Severson voting Pe
3
