COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
RESOLUTION #_{4-\\-02
, eM. 2019
A RESOLUTION OF THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ADOPTING RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE FOR THE PLANNING
COMMISSION

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-91-301 requires the municipalities adopt rules of order
and procedure for their planning commissions; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-103(57) states the rules of order and procedure for
a planning commission govern: (1) parliamentary order and procedure; (2) ethical behavior, and
(3) civil discourse; and

WHEREAS, Section 19.05.060 of the Copperton Metro Township Code provides that the
Copperton Metro Township Council (the “Couneil”) will, by resolution, enact rules of order and
procedure for the Copperton Metro Township Planning Commission; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to adopt the rules of order and procedure attached to this
resolution.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED by the Copperton Metro Township Council
adopts that the attached rules of order and procedure for the Planning Commission effective
immediately.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah
this [4 dayof Agwenhe _, 2019.

By:
Sear| Clayton, Mayor
ATTEST
Syren
Sherrie Swensen, Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township/Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Bailey voting Ven
Council Member Clayton voting Van
Council Member Patrick voting Ye
Council Member Pazell voting tz
Council Member Severson voting oa

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION
RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE
Adopted by the Copperton Metro Township Council
Effective hei ambe- 4, 2019

These Rules of Order and Procedure (the “Rules’”’) will govern the proceedings of the Copperton
Metro Township Planning Commission (the “Commission”) and will be consistent with all
applicable provisions of the Utah Code and the Copperton Metro Township Code (the “Code”).

I. PARLIAMENTARY ORDER AND PROCEDURE
The most current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order shall govern any parliamentary issue that
these Rules do not address.

Il. PARLIAMENTARIAN
The attorney assigned to advise the Commission shall serve as the Commission’s designated
expert regarding the interpretation and implementation of these Rules.

Ill. MEMBERSHIP

Section 1. Rights of Members: All members of the Commission (“Members”), including
the Chair of the Commission, will be entitled to one vote on all matters properly brought before
the Commission for action. Proxy votes will not be permitted and Members must be present to
vote unless otherwise conducted in accordance with a duly adopted policy on electronic meetings
by the Commission or by the Copperton Metro Township Council.

Section 2. Member Responsibilities: Each Member will be responsible for:

1. Reading and studying the agenda for each meeting, accompanying staff reports, and
all attached documents prepared by support staff prior to the scheduled meeting;

2. Acting in a courteous and respectful manner to their fellow Member, to support
staff, and the public during all Commission meetings; and

3. Attending Commission meetings.

Section 3. Training: Within three (3) months of being first appointed, all Members are
encouraged to meet with Support staff to review these the applicable provisions of the Code.

Section 4. Attendance: Members will endeavor to regularly attend as many Commission
meetings as possible. The Commission may request that the Copperton Metro Township Council
remove a member if he/she/they has five (5) or more unexcused absences within a 12-month period
pursuant to Section 6.

Section 5. Excused and Unexcused Absences: A Member unable to attend a meeting will
contact the Chair and support staff at least 24 hours prior to the scheduled meeting and indicate
the reason for being absent. Members who provide less than 24 hours’ notice will be considered

1

b. Preside at Commission meetings and otherwise serve as the Chair Pro Tem in the
absence of the Chair.

c. Assume the duties and responsibilities for the Chair in all instances where
the Chair is not available or unable to carry out the duties and
responsibilities; and

d. Identify and bring before the Commission such policy matters as are
within the purview of the Commission.

Section 4. Chair Pro Tem: In the absence or incapacity of both the Chair and the Vice
Chair for a Commission meeting, the Regular Members present at the meeting will elect a
Chair Pro Tem to serve as Presiding Officer only for that meeting. Alternate Members may
not serve as Chair Pro Tem.

TV. COMMISSION MEETINGS

Section 1. Quorum: A Quorum will consist of three (3) of the current appointed Members
and will be necessary to conduct any business of the Commission.

Section 2. Adherence to County, State, and Federal Law: All Commission
meetings will adhere to the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code Ann. § 52-4-
201, et seq., and the Government Records Access Management Act (GRAMA), Utah Code
Ann. § 63G-2-201, et seq.

Section 3. Regular Meetings: Regular meeting will be publicly noticed and held each
month in accordance with state law and these Rules.

Section 4. Special Meetings: Special meetings may be called by the Chair or by
support staff, with the consent of the Chair, at any time, provided that a preferred seventy-
two (72) hours' notice and a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours' notice is given to cach
Member in accordance with State Law and these Rules.

Section 5. Meeting Cancellation: Notice of cancellation of a meeting will be posted
in accordance with state law and these Rules. If a meeting is rescheduled the new mecting
time, date, and location will be posted in accordance with state law.

Section 6. Agenda: Support staff will create the agenda for each Commission mecting
under the direction of the Chair. Any Member may request the Chair to include an item in the
agenda and the Chair will ensure that all such requests are included in the agenda but may
exclude requested agenda items that fall outside of the Commission’s jurisdiction or authority.
Each agenda must include the review and approval of the minutes for the prior Commission
meeting and must allow for public comment. Support staff will send the agenda and any related
meeting materials to the Commission as soon as reasonably practicable but not later than
twenty-four (24) hours before a Commission meeting.

Section 7. Notice of Meetings: Notice for all Commission meetings will be provided as
follows in accordance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Utah Code Ann. § 52-
4-201, et seq.

3

1. Notice of Regular Meeting Schedule: The Commission will provide public notice at
least once each year of its meeting regular meeting schedule for that year. The notice
will specify the date, time, and place of the Commission’s regular meetings.

2. Content of Notices: The notice for all Commission mectings, including regular
meetings, special meetings, workshops, and executive sessions in which the quorum is
present, will include the agenda, including the date, time, and place of the meeting.

3. Posting of Notice for Regular and Special Meetings: The Commission will provide
notice of all regular and special meetings at least 24 hours prior to the meeting by:

i. Posting the notice at the building where the meeting will be held;

ii. Posting the notice on the Utah Public Notice Website; and

iii. Providing the notice to at least one newspaper of general jurisdiction within the
geographic jurisdiction of the Township or a local media correspondent.

4. Notice for Public Hearings: The Council will provide notice of any required public
hearing in accordance with state law, which typically requires ten (10) days’ notice for
public hearings before the Commission.

V. SUBCOMMITTEES
The Chair may create subcommittees as deemed necessary. Members of subcommittees
will be Commission Members.

VI. MEETING AND HEARING PROCEDURES

Section 1. Conduct of Meeting: The Commission will conduct a business meeting as a
component of each regularly scheduled meeting. The Commission, by a majority vote, may
adjust the scheduled time and order of the agenda as needed. Members of the public may
attend such meetings, but will only participate and provide comments during designated
public comment periods unless the Chair directs otherwise.

Section 2. Order of Business: The Chair will preside over each Commission mecting
and will conduct each meeting in accordance with the posted agenda, provided that the Chair,
by a majority vote of the Commission, may consider matters out of the agenda order.

Section 3. Motions: Any matter that requires a Commission decision will be brought
before the Commission by motion. The Chair will initiate the motion by either: (1) inviting
Members to make a motion; (2) suggesting a motion to the Commission; (3) making the motion;
or (4) reading a motion suggested by support staff. The Chair has the same mght as other
Commission members to make a motion but should only do so when the Chair desires to make a
motion and is convinced that no other member of the Council desires to make the motion.
Alternates may make motions and second motions only if they are serving as a Regular Member
for the meeting.

4

Section 4. Voting: A majority vote by the present Members in favor of a motion will
carry a motion. Following a seconded motion, the support staff may ask each Member to
verbally pronounce their name and vote and will record each individual vote in the written
minutes as an "aye" or "nay".

Section 5. Procedures for Public Hearings:

1. Public Hearing Procedure for Applications: The Commission will adhere to the

following procedures for public hearings:

i. Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent
at any meeting of the Commission;

ii. Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure at a public hearing on an
application will be:

a. Presentation of the application by support staff, including its
recommendations and a summary of pertinent written comments and
reports concerning the application;

b. The applicant's presentation, not to exceed fifteen (15) minutes;

c. Any group representing the area in which the subject property is
located, not to exceed five (5) minutes; .

d. Persons other than the applicant in favor of, or not opposed lo, the
application, not to exceed three (3) minutes per person;

e. Persons opposing the application, in whole or in part, not to exceed
three (3) minutes per person;

f. Rebuttal by the applicant as necessary to respond to new issues raised
by other parties, not to exceed five (5) minutes;

g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.

2. Conduct at Public Hearings:

i. Each speaker, before talking, will give his or her name and address;

ii. Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at atime;

iii. The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application
bearing on the desirability or undesirability of the application,

iv. The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been
presented and acknowledge that it has been noted in the public record;

v. No personal attacks will be indulged in by either side, and such action will be

5

sufficient cause for stopping the speaker from proceeding;

vi. No applause or public outbursts will be permitted; and

vii. The Chair or support staff may request police support to remove offending
individuals who refuse to abide by these rules.

3. Discussion and Vote: After all presentations have been made, the Chair may
request or entertain a motion to close the public hearing. Members may continue
to discuss the application among themselves. Following this discussion on the
application, a motion must be made and seconded, which may include;
approval, approval with conditions, denial, a recommendation to the Copperton
Metro Township Council (as appropriate), or continuation of the item to a
future meeting for decision.

4. Decisions: A decision of the Commission on an application will be documented in
writing by the Supporting Agency staff and will include reasons for the decision.
The written decision will be posted in accordance with state law, the Copperton
Metro Township Code, and any applicable Copperton Metro Township policies.

VII. ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST

Section 1. Compliance: All Members will abide by the Utah Code and annually
complete any necessary volunteer forms, documents, and training.

Section 2. Recusal: Members are encouraged to review Section 2.07.20]
(Copperton Metro Township Ethics Code, Conflict of Interest), and Chapter 2.70 of
Copperton Metro Township Ordinance (Quasi-Judicial Functions Standards of
Conduct) for complete requirements. A member of the Commission who has a
restricted conflict of interest as defined by the Copperton Metro Township Code will
declare the conflict of interest and recuse themselves from the mecting. Members,
who have unrestricted conflicts of interest as defined in Copperton Metro Township
Code, will declare the conflict of interest at the meeting, and may recuse themselves,
but are not required to do so.

Section 3. Ex Parte Communications: No member of the Commission will
have any ex parte discussion regarding any administrative land use application before
the Commission. Ex parte communication means any communication with interested
parties of a land use application coming before the Commission prior to the
Commission reaching a final decision.

VII. AMENDMENTS AND ADOPTION
The Commission may recommend approval and/or amendments of these Rules to the
Copperton Metro Township Council. All amendments must be consistent with all other
Copperton Metro Township ordinances and policies.
6
