COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
RESOLUTION #2019-_) -0| |
Aus, df , 2019
A RESOLUTION OF THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ADOPTING A PERSONNEL POLICY
RECITALS
WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-71 7(1){c) authorizes the Copperton Metro
| Township Council (the “Council”) to adopt personnel policies and guidelines by resolution;
WHEREAS, the Council desires to adopt a personnel policy pursuant to Utah Code Ann.
§ 10-3-717(1)}(c) that is also consistent with Part 11 of Title 10 of the Utah Code; and
WHEREAS, the Council has determined that the personnel policy attached to this
Resolution will serve the best interests of the Copperton Metro Township and the general public.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Copperton Metro Township
Council that the personnel policy attached to this Resolution, is hereby approved effective
immediately.
APPROVED and ADOPTED this > {st day ot Asses , 2019.
[Execution on following page]

| APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Salt Lake County, Utah, this 2|__ day of
| Au ust __, 2019.
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP:
By: UAT} Aw Vice Cheedn
Sean Clayton, Chair
OGL
Date: ms. of , ZolF
ATTEST:
3 . YQ
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk
IH
APPROVED AS TO FORM:
wal S. Bracken /
Metro Township Council Attorney
Council Member Bailey voting ‘o4 _
Council Member Clayton voting A
Council Member Patrick voting Njx
Council Member Pazell voting a
Council Member Severson voting Vee

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
PERSONNEL POLICY
Adopted August 21, 2019
ARTICLE I - GENERAL

Section 1 ~Name: This will be known as the Copperton Metro Township Personnel Policy
(the “Policy’’).

Section 2 — Purpose and Implementation: The Policy has been adopted for the purpose of
guiding the Township’s efforts for quality performance, equity in employment, and career
development of its employees. This Policy will be applied in conformance with all applicable
federal and state laws and regulations, including but not limited to Title 10, Chapter 3, Part 11 of
the Utah Code.

Section 3 — Definitions: The following definitions wil! apply for the purposes of this Policy:

1. “Council” means the Copperton Metro Township Council.

2. “Contractor” or “Independent Contractor” means, consistent with Utah Code Ann. §
34A-2-103(2)(b)(i) or applicable successor statute, any person engaged in the performance of
any work for the Township who, while so engaged, is:

a. Engaged only in the performance of a definite job or piece of work on behalf of the
Township;

b. Independent of the Township in all that pertains to the execution of their job or
piece of work;

c. Not subject to the routine rule or control of the Township;

d. Subordinate to the Township only in effecting a result according to Township’s
design.

3. “Employee(s)” or “Staff” means a person or persons employed for wages or salary by
the Township.

4. “Ethics Act” means the Utah Public Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act, Utah Code
Ann.§§ 67-16-1 et seq., or applicable successor statute.

5. “Family and Medical Leave” means unpaid, job-protected leave for specified family
and medical reasons under the FLSA.

6. “FLSA” means the Fair Labor Standards Act, 19 U.S.C. 201 to 219.

I

7. “Full-time Employee” means an employee hired to work more than 30 hours per week
on a regular basis in an established job.

8. “GAAP” means Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

9. “Mayor” means the Mayor of the Copperton Metro Township.

10. “Part-time Employee” means employment in an established job requiring not more than
30 hours per week.

11. “Policy” means this Personnel Policy.

12. “Public Officer” means a member of the Council consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 76-
1-601(13) or applicable successor statute.

13. “Public Property” means, consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 76-8-101(5)(a) or
applicable successor statute, real or personal property that is owned, held, or managed by the
Township, including real or personal property that is transferred by the Township to an
independent contractor which remains public property while in the possession of an
independent contractor of the Township for the purpose of providing a program or service for,
or on behalf of the Township.

14. “Public Servant” means, consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 76-1-601(14) or applicable
successor statute, the following, who become public servants upon their election, appointment,
contracting, or other selection, regardless of whether the person has begun to officially occupy
the position of a public servant:

a. A public officer;

b. An appointed official, employee, consultant, or independent contractor of the
Township; or

c. A person hired or paid by the Township to perform a government function.

15. “Temporary Employee” means employment in a job established for a specific period
of time or for the duration of a specific project or group of assignments. A temporary employee
may work full-time or part-time with the understanding that the employment will be terminated
at the conclusion of a specific time or at the completion of a specific project.

16. “Township” means the Copperton Metro Township.

Section 4 — Discrimination Prohibited: One of the reasons for the Policy is to insure that
no employee or applicant for employment will be discriminated against in any personnel action by
reason of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation, age or disability and to
safeguard their privacy and constitutional rights as citizens.

2

Section 5 — Fair Employment Practices: It is the intent and purpose of the Council to
assure equality and quality in all phases of the employment process. In so doing, the Council
intends to comply with all applicable State and Federal requirements pertaining to fair
employment practices.

Section 6 — Professionalism: All employees are expected to accept and adhere to high
standards of personal and professional conduct. This not only involves sincere respect for the
rights and feelings of others, but also demands that employees refrain from behavior that might
be harmful to themselves, their co-workers and/or the Township, or negatively impact those
persons and organizations served by the Township or the perception of the Township by the
public at large. An employee whose performance, work habits, overall attitude or demeanor
becomes unsatisfactory or who fails to perform assigned duties and responsibilities at prescribed
levels may be subject to disciplinary action, including termination.

Section 7 — Council Review: The Council will review annually the personnel policies to
ensure that they conform to the requirements of state and federal law.

ARTICLE II — HIRING

Section |—Job Description: Before an applicant may be hired or an existing employee may
be promoted to a new or revised position, a job description must be prepared and the position must
be evaluated, approved by the Council, and a salary or pay level determined in accordance with
the applicant’s skills and qualifications. A job description is a description of the general duties,
responsibilities, skills, degrees required, and other qualifications necessary to adequately perform
a particular job.

Section 2 — At Will: Except as otherwise provided in Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1105 or
another applicable provision of law, all Township employees, both full-time and part-time, will be
“at will;” and will acknowledge in writing that: (1) the employee’s employment status is either
appointed or at-will, as the case may be; and (2) the employee has voluntarily waived the
procedures required in Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1106. The Township will not take any action to
promise or otherwise imply guaranteed employment to any employee on any other basis.

Section 3 — Job Advertising: All announcements and employment advertisements will
comply with equal employment opportunity requirements. All such notices must specify the person
for whom applications are to be obtained, the person to whom completed applications are to be
returned, and the deadline for filing an application. Such notices should contain a statement
indicating that the Township is an equal opportunity employer. Generally, the Township may post
job announcements with the Department of Workforce Services and/or may be advertised in a
newspaper published and/or distributed in Utah or on a related industry website or other job search
website.

Section 4—Employment Agencies and Search Consultants: The Township may use private
employment agencies and search consultants if the Council has reason to believe that a qualified
candidate will not be attracted as a result of the procedures of this Chapter.

3

Section 5 — Hiring: All job applicants will complete such application forms and evaluations
as required by the Council. In conducting any ability tests the Council may require, reasonable
accommodations will be made for disabled applicants.

Section 6 — Interviews: The Council will select an interview pool from those applicants
who have passed the preliminary job application form screening and any ability tests that have
been administered. During the interview, each applicant will be asked only questions pertaining to
the applicant’s professional background, experience, training, education, and qualifications for the
job. Applicants may not be asked about their marital or family status or pregnancy, religion, age,
gender or sex, race, ethnicity or color, or disability. If references are contacted, to the extent
practical, an equal number of references will be contacted for each applicant giving permission for
the contact.

Section 7 — Notification Procedures: Before a person is offered a position, the offer must
be evaluated and approved by the Council and any applicable direct-line supervisor. The job offer
must include the basic conditions of employment. If the offer is extended verbally, a follow-up
written offer must be delivered to the applicant within a reasonable time after the verbal offer has
been extended. The written offer must be signed by the applicant before the applicant may assume
duties as a Township employee. If the position in question qualifies as an “at will’ position, the
written job offer must clearly state the job description, salary, conditions of employment, that the
position is “at will,” and that the offer is not final until the candidate signs and returns the written
offer letter. The offer letter should also include the job title; the name of the supervisor; if
applicable; a statement that the job title, job description, and identification of the supervisor may
change over time; the starting date; disclosure of the probationary period during which the
employee may be terminated for no cause and without explanation; and any contingencies or
conditions to the job offer (such as passing a drug test). Once a written offer has been signed by
the candidate, the offer is final. The original of the final offer is to be maintained by the Township
as part of its personnel files, with a copy to be given to the new employee.

Section 8 — Notification of Closing: All recruiting sources used in the recruiting process
should be notified of the closing of the job opening as soon as is reasonably practicable.

Section 9 — Orientation: Each newly hired employee will complete necessary paperwork
and receive orientation as a new employee of the Township on the first day of work or as
reasonably practicable thereafter.

Section 10 — Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986: In accordance with the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, all new employees must provide proof of identity
and employment status by completing an employment eligibility verification form as required by
the U.S. Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service. The newly hired employee
must declare, under penalty of perjury, that he/she is a United States citizen, a lawful permanent
resident alien, or an alien otherwise authorized for United States Employment.

4

ARTICLE II — DISCIPLINARY ACTION

Section | — General: All disciplinary actions except termination are intended to be
corrective and constructive rather than punitive, and should be carried out with the intention of
obtaining compliance with policies, orders, procedures, standards of conduct, expected
performance standards and/or improve attitude.

Section 2 — Disciplinary Actions: There will be five types of disciplinary actions that may
be used by the Township: (1) reprimand; (2) suspension; (3) suspension-without pay; (4) restitution
for damage to the Township property or to other property; (5) demotion; and (6) termination. All
disciplinary decisions must be documented in writing and given to the employee, with the
Township retaining a copy for its records. Unless the Council designates otherwise, it must
approve all disciplinary actions. No employee will be disciplined because of political affiliation,
age, race, gender, color, disability, national origin, or religious beliefs. Notwithstanding these
provisions, all Township employees, both full-time and part-time, will be at-will employees and
may be terminated at-will by the Council, at any time, without cause or prior notice, for any reason
or for no reason at all.

Section 3 — Appeals of Disciplinary Actions: Appeals of the disciplinary hearing decision,
may be made to the Mayor for review by the Council within fifteen (15) working days after the
employee received a copy of the disciplinary decision. The Council will review the appeal at its
next regularly scheduled meeting, or at a special meeting if the next regularly scheduled meeting
will take place thirty (30) calendar days after the date the appeal was received. By majority vote,
the Council may reverse, uphold or modify the disciplinary decision. The Council’s decision
regarding the appeal will be in writing and given to the employee within thirty (30) working days
from the date the appeal was filed with the Mayor.

Section 4 — Limitations: Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1106, an employee subject to
Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1105, may not be discharged, suspended without pay, or involuntarily
transferred to a position with less remuneration because of the employee’s politics or religious
belief; or incident to, or through changes, either in the elective officers, governing body, or head
of Township departments. Appeals made in response to alleged violations of this Section will be
made in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1106.

ARTICLE IV —- GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

Section | — Complaints: Any employee alleging a grievance is encouraged to resolve the
problem through an informal discussion with their immediate supervisor or the Council. If the
results of such a discussion are not satisfactory, the employee will file a formal written grievance
with the Council. The Council will authorize an investigation of such complaints and, based upon
the findings, may present charges against any person derelict, or discriminatory in considering the
grievance. A grievance must be filed in writing and clearly state the Township policy, state law
and\or federal law alleged to have been violated. All grievances must be filed within thirty (30)
calendar days following the alleged violation of any Township policy, law, state law, or federal
law.

5

Section 2 — Complaint Review: The Mayor will investigate the complaint within fifteen
(15) working days. The Mayor will issue a written report to the employee and the Council setting
forth findings and recommendations for the resolution of the grievance within five (5) working
days of the conclusion of the investigation. The employee may accept the recommendations of
the Mayor, or file a written appeal to the Council within five (5) working days of receiving the
Mayor’s recommendation. After hearing the grievance appeal, the Council will provide the
employee with a written decision within ten (10) days. The Council’s decision will be final.
ARTICLE V —- EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT

Section | — Employee Evaluation: Personnel evaluation is closely related to employee
development, promotion, and compensation. The Council will designate a Council member or
supervising employee to hold regular goal-setting interviews with subordinates and regular follow-
up meetings to motivate, train, and develop employees.

Section 2 - Employee Development and Training: When the Council, or a supervisor with
the approval of the Council, requires that an employee attend a formal training program, the
Township will pay all reasonable and pre-authorized costs associated with the training. Employees
may also ask the Council for approval to attend trainings related to their position. The Council
may, in its sole discretion, provide assistance to an employee who undertakes a course of study
which leads to a job-related degree. In some cases, irregular work schedules may be arranged as
a means of accommodating class schedules.

ARTICLE VI —- SEXUAL HARASSMENT

Section 1 — Sexual Harassment Prohibited: The Township is committed to provide all
employees with a work environment free of sexual harassment. Sexual harassment, in any form,
is unacceptable. Any employee involved in sexual harassment will be subject to discipline,
including termination.

Section 2~ Documentation: If an employee feels that he/she is being subjected to any form
of sexual harassment, or that the working environment contributes to sexual harassment, the
employee should document specific information regarding the harassment, including: dates, times,
places, specific types of harassment, and the names of any witnesses. The employee should then
verbalize his/her disapproval of the actions to the harasser(s) and state that his or her actions are
not welcome.

Section 3 — Grievance Procedure: If an employee feels that he/she is a victim of sexual
harassment, the employee is encouraged to file a grievance in writing with the Council. The
Council will hear, entertain, and resolve allegations of sexual harassment in an expedient and
discreet manner once such a grievance has been filed. Once a grievance has been filed, it will be
the responsibility of the Council or, if applicable, the grieving employee's supervisor (or the
Council if the grievance is against the supervisor) to immediately investigate the grievance and to
prevent further unwelcome behavior.

6

ARTICLE VII —- SUBSTANCE ABUSE

Section 1 — Drug Free Workplace: The Township prohibits drug and alcohol use or
impairment in the workplace to protect the public and the Township’s employees. The Council
may, in its discretion, test current employees and prospective employees for the presence of drugs
or alcohol as a condition of hire or continued employment if it has a reasonable basis to require
such testing. Any employee or prospective employee failing or refusing to take the test will not
be eligible for employment, or if employed, may be subject to termination. The Township will
consider all confirmed positive drug and alcohol test results with a medically sufficient explanation
to be the equivalent of a negative drug test result.

Section 2 — Township Action: Upon receipt of a verified or confirmed positive drug or
alcohol test result, which indicates a violation of this policy, or upon the refusal of any employee
or prospective employee to provide a sample, the Council may use that test result or refusal as the
basis for all disciplinary or rehabilitative actions authorized herein, depending upon the
circumstances.

Section 3 — Confidentiality: All information, interviews, reports, statements, memoranda,
or test results received by the Township, through this drug and alcohol testing program, are
confidential communications and are not to be used or received as evidence, obtained in discovery
or disclosed in any public or private proceeding, except to those having a demonstrated need to
know, or in a proceeding related to an action taken by the Township, or in defense of any action
brought against the Township, or as required by law. All testing results will be the property of the
Township, but test results may be released to the person who has been tested upon written request.

Section 4—Acknowledgment: The Township will require each employee to read this policy
and sign a form stating that they have received and read a copy of this policy and agree to abide
by its terms as a condition of continued employment. The signed acknowledgment will be kept in
each employee’s personnel file.

ARTICLE VIII — WORKERS COMPENSATION INSURANCE

Section 1 — General: Work-related accidents are covered by the workers compensation
insurance. Premiums for this coverage are paid by the Township. Employees are to report any
work-related accidents to the Council, or applicable supervisor designated by the Council, as soon
as possible and submit a written initial injury report to the Council or supervisor as soon as
possible.

Section 2 — Payments: If a claim is approved by the Utah Labor Commission, the
employee's medical costs and compensation will be paid by the worker's compensation insurance
in accordance with the State policy. Because the Township pays the total cost of worker's
compensation insurance, an employee cannot draw sick leave pay while eligible for worker's
compensation insurance payments.

Section 3 — Accounting for Sick and Annual Leave: The period of time an injured employee
is off work and is waiting to qualify for worker's compensation insurance payments, will be

7

charged to sick leave or vacation leave as selected by the employee. However, during the period
an employee is eligible and receiving compensation from worker's compensation insurance, no
sick leave or annual leave will be paid by the Township.

ARTICLE IX — JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND COMPENSATION

Section | ~Compensation: The Council will conduct periodic market surveys to determine
the salary range for particular job classifications and the salary, within the approved range, for
particular employees based on their experience, qualifications, education, and other qualifying
factors the Council deems relevant.

Section 2 — Performance Reviews: The Council will designate a Council Member or a
supervisor to conduct performance reviews annually to insure quality performance, provide
feedback concerning employee performance, set work performance goals for the coming year, and
determine eligibility for merit raises. The Council may, in its discretion, require performance
reviews more than once annually.

Section 3 — Merit Increases: The Council may, in its discretion, award merit increases in
an employee’s compensation based on increased proficiency, qualifications, changes in an
employee’s position or job description, or other circumstances that it deems to warrant an increase.
Merit increases are not automatic but are subject to the results of an evaluation of the employee’s
performance and the availability of sufficient budgeted funds.

Section 4 — Cost of Living Increases: The Council may, in its discretion, award cost-of-
living increases to its employees, provided that all employees must receive the same cost of living
increase and any such increases must be computed by the consumer price index published by the
United States Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Section 5 — Pay Periods: Unless an exception is granted by the Department of Labor, as
required by the FLSA, wages are to be calculated on a weekly basis and are to be paid at least
twice monthly.

Section 6 — Overtime: Any non-salaried employee who is required to work more than 40
hours during any work week will be paid for all hours in excess of 40 at the rate of one and one-
halftimes the regular rate at which the employee is employed or, at the Council’s election, will
receive compensatory time off at the rate of one and one-half hours for each hour of employment
for which overtime compensation would otherwise be required by the FLSA or any other
applicable law.

Section 7 — Health Insurance and Retirement: The Council may elect, in its discretion, to
provide health insurance and retirement benefits to its employees.

Section 8 — Payroll Deductions for Political Purposes Prohibited: The Township will not
deduct from the wages of its employees any amounts paid to:

1. A candidate as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-101;

8

2. A personal campaign committee as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-101;

3. A political action committee as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-101;

4. A political issues committee as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-101;

5. A registered political party as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-101;

6. A political fund as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-1402; or

7. Any entity established by a labor organization to solicit, collect, or distribute money

primarily for political purposes as defined in Chapter 32 of Title 34 of the Utah Code.
ARTICLE X — LEAVE
Section 1 — Annual Leave: The following schedule will be used to earn vacation leave for
full-time employees:
Length of Service Hours Earned
0-4 yrs 3.0 hours per pay period
4 plus - 9 yrs 5.0 hours per pay period
9 plus - 14 yrs 7.0 hours per pay period
14 plus yrs 9.0 hours per pay period
Part-time will receive 50% of these amounts.

Section 2 — Use of Annual Leave: An employee may use any or all accrued annual leave
at any time subject to the approval of the Mayor or their supervisor, whichever is applicable.
Vacations will be scheduled well in advance so as to meet the operating requirements of the
Township, and in so far as possible, the preference of the employees. It will be the responsibility
of the Council, or a designated employee, to maintain records of vacation leave used by each
employee. Such records will be turned into the Council at the end of each quarter, or immediately
upon the employee's separation, to be placed in the employee's official personnel records.

Section 3 — Sick Leave: Sick leave will be accrued at the rate of 4.0 hours per pay period
for all full-time employees and 2.0 hours for part-time employees. Sick leave may be used as it is
accrued. Sick leave is to be used in case of personal illness or injury to the employee or immediate
family with the exception that three of the 12 days accrued annually may be used for personal
business during the year of accrual. Personal leave must be noted on the employee’s time record
as personal leave. Personal leave must be approved in advance and may be taken in increments of
one hour. If personal business days are not used in the year accrued, they automatically revert to
normal sick leave effective January 1. An employee’s supervisor is authorized to send an employee
home and require the employee to use sick leave when the employee comes to work sick and is
unable to perform his job in a safe, productive and effective manner because of sickness.

9

Section 4— Family and Medical Leave: Employees who have worked for the Township for
1,250 hours during the previous 12 consecutive months and have been employed for at least 1 year
are eligible for up to 12 work weeks of unpaid Family and Medical Leave during any 12 month
period as determined by the Township. The Mayor or designee, may approve, based on individual
circumstances, leave for employees who do not meet the “hours” or “months” eligibility
requirement. Eligible employees are entitled to Family and Medical Leave in the following
situations:

1. The employee has a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to

perform the employee’s job.

2. The birth of an employee’s child, or placement of a child for adoption or foster care.

3. Caring for the employee’s spouse, son or daughter, or parent, who has a serious health

condition.
Eligible employees are entitled to take 12 work weeks of unpaid Family and Medical Leave for
these reasons in any 12 month period, which 12 month period will be determined by the Township.
These benefits are renewable each year, but cannot be accumulated from year to year.
Before Family and Medical Leave is granted to an employee, the Township will require medical
certification to support a request for leave because of serious health condition, and may require
second and third opinions (at the employer’s expense). A fitness for duty report to return to work
will be required of all employees returning from Family and Medical Leave. The employee
ordinarily must provide thirty (30) days advance notice when the leave is “foreseeable.”
The maximum 12 work weeks of Family and Medical Leave may be taken continuously or
intermittently, if granted by the Mayor. The Township requires that any available paid leave (sick
leave, comp time, vacation, personal leave or other paid leave) be used by the employee as part of
the 12 work weeks as provided in the “Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993."
Employees taking Family and Medical Leave will receive health benefits under the same terms
and conditions as when they were on the job. Other benefit premiums, such as life insurance, long
term disability insurance and short term disability insurance must be paid by the employee.
Employees are guaranteed the right to return from Family and Medical Leave to their previous or
an equivalent position with no loss of benefits at the end of the leave. If there are layoffs or
reductions in force while the employee is on Family and Medical Leave, and they would have lost
their job had they remained, the employee loses their rights to reinstatement.

Section 5 — Leave of Absence: Leave of absence without pay or benefits up to 120 days
may be granted by the Council. Leave of absence will not be regarded as an acquired right by an
employee. Requests for a leave of absence will be made in writing and addressed to the Council.
After the Council has made a decision, it will respond to the employee in writing stating the reasons
for said decision. Benefits will not accrue while on leave of absence.

10

Section 6 — Paid Holidays: The following days have been designated by the Township as
paid holidays:

1. New Year's Day

2. Martin Luther King Day

3. Presidents’ Day

4. Memorial Day

5. Fourth of July (Independence Day)

6. Pioneer Day

7. Labor Day

8. Veterans’ Day

9. Thanksgiving Day

10. Christmas Day
ARTICLE XI —- ETHICS

Section 1 — Application of the Utah Public Officers’ and Employee’s Ethics Act: The
requirements of the Ethics Act are applicable to Township employees and Council Members. The
definitions included in the Act are incorporated by reference.

Section 2 — Gratuities: Acceptance of gratuities, whether in the form of a gift,
compensation or a loan, may cloud the ethical judgment of an employee or Council member and
violate the Ethics Act. District employees and Council members will not seek or accept gratuities
except under circumstances allowed by the Ethics Act such as proper political campaign
contributions, bona fide loans made in the ordinary course of business, public awards or an
occasional non-pecuniary gift having a value of $50.00 or less.

Section 3 — Conflicts of Interest: No employee or Council member of the Township may
invest in any business entity which will create a substantial conflict between the private interests
and public duties of the employee, contractor, or Council member.

Section 4 — Penalties: Any employee or Council member of the Township who knowingly
or intentionally violates the Ethics Act may be dismissed from employment or removed from office
and may also face criminal penalties as provided in Utah Code Ann. § 67-16-12. In addition, the
Township may rescind or void a contract entered into in violation of the Act, including contracts
and subcontracts with independent contractors without returning any part of the consideration the
Township has received, as provided in Utah Code Ann.§ 67-16-14.

ARTICLE XII - GLOBAL GOVERNANCE-MANAGEMENT CONNECTION AND
UNITY OF CONTROL
Decisions or instructions of individual Council members, officers or committees are not binding
on the Township staff except when the Council has specifically authorized such exercise of
authority by individuals or committees.

11

ARTICLE XIII — COUNCIL OVERSIGHT

The Council manages the operation of the organization. All authority over and accountability of
employees and contractors are considered to be the responsibility of the Council.

ARTICLE XIV — TREATMENT OF CONSTITUENTS/OTHERS

Section _| — General: With respect to interactions with constituents and others, Council
members, employees, and contractors will not cause or allow conditions, procedures, actions or
decisions which are unlawful, unethical, unsafe, disrespectful, disruptive, undignified, imprudent,
or in violation of Council policy. Accordingly, Council members, employees, and contractors will
not:

1. Fail to develop and maintain positive relationships with constituents, public agencies
and officials, contractors, service providers, insurers, consultants and others to effect the
exchange of information, resources, programs and ideas to ensure the best interests of the
public.

2. Fail to recommend policies and procedures to the Council that ensure compliance with
all federal and state regulations and local laws.

3. Fail to provide for effective handling of complaints; including but not limited to
prohibiting or making it difficult for a constituent to present a complaint to the Council if
resolution has not been reached at the employee level.

4. Fail to disclose the opportunity to leverage relationships with other entities that share
interests with the Township.

5. Use methods of collecting, reviewing, transmitting or storing information that fail to
protect confidential information.

Section 2 — Financial Management: With respect to the actual, ongoing condition of the
Township’s financial health, Council members and employees will not cause or allow a material
deviation from the policies adopted by the Council, cause or allow any fiscal condition that is
inconsistent with achieving the Council’s directives, fail to exercise due and prudent care, or place
the long term financial health of the organization in jeopardy. Accordingly, Council members and
employees may not:

1. Expend more funds than are conservatively projected to be received in the fiscal year,
unless revenues are made available from unrestricted net assets, or other reserves in excess of
minimum fund balances, as approved by the Council.

2. Indebt the Township or create obligations beyond the Township’s anticipated revenues.

3. Fail to meet obligations in a timely manner.

12

4. Fail to continually review expenditures and effectiveness of budgetary controls of the
Township and present to the Council quarterly financial reports.

5. Allow reports or filings required by any local, state or federal agency to be overdue or
inaccurately filed.

6. Expend any funds without disclosing to the Council any conflict of interest or fail to
annually provide a conflict of interest report to the Council.

7. Fail to aggressively pursue receivables after a reasonable grace period.

8. Fail to keep complete and accurate financial records on a modified accrual basis by
fund type and accounts in accordance with GAAP.

9. Receive, process or disburse funds under controls that are inconsistent with GAAP.

10. Violate the Township’s purchasing policy. Splitting orders to avoid this limit is not
acceptable.

11. Change fee structures without properly executed public notice, public hearings and
Council approval.

12. Use any long term reserves without the express consent of the Council.

13. Develop or administer any program that leverages the benefit of any individual Council
or employee.

14. Fail to make an annual presentation to the Council of the Township’s goals, budget and
activities.

Section 3 — Asset Protection: The Council, employees and contractors will not allow
Township assets to be unprotected, inadequately maintained, inappropriately used or unnecessarily
risked. Accordingly, Township Council, employees, and contractors (when applicable) will not:

1. Fail to insure adequately against theft and casualty and maintain adequate liability
protection for Council members, employees, and the Township itself.

2. Unnecessarily expose the Township, the Council, employees, or contractors to claims
of liability.

3. Fail to obtain insurance coverage against theft and property losses to 100 percent of
replacement value.

4. Allow personnel access to material amounts of funds or fail to manage each major fund
of the Township, and closely supervise those having the care, management, collection, or
distribution of public monies belonging to the Township.

13

5. Subject facilities and equipment to improper wear and tear or insufficient maintenance.

6. For Council members and employees, make any purchases without strict compliance
with the Township’s purchasing policies and procedures.

7. Receive, process or disburse funds under controls which are insufficient to meet the
compliance standards of the Township’s Independent Auditor.

8. Invest or hold funds in instruments that are non-compliant with the State Money
Management Act.

9. Fail to protect public records, Township information and files from loss or significant
damage.

10. Acquire, encumber or dispose of real property without a recommendation from the
Council.

11. Fail to maintain a minimum general fund balance of 50% of the current year’s property
tax collections, unless authorized by the Council; nor allow the general fund balance to exceed
100% of the current year’s property tax collections.

12. Fail to manage Township assets in compliance with GASB Statement No. 34, and the
asset capitalization policy adopted by the Council.

13. Endanger the organization’s public image or credibility, particularly in ways that would
hinder its purpose, mission and values.

Section 4 — Communication and Support to the Council: Township staff will give the
Council as much information as necessary to allow the Council to be adequately informed and
supported in their work. Accordingly, Township staff and contractors will:

1. Submit monitoring data required by the Council in a timely, accurate and
understandable fashion, directly addressing provisions of the Council policies being monitored
and including the staffs’ or contractors’ interpretations.

2. Advise the Council in a timely manner of trends, facts and information relevant to the
Council’s work.

3. Advise the Council of significant transfers of money within funds or other changes
substantially affecting the organization’s financial condition.

4. Advise the Council of changes in assumptions upon which Council policy has been
established.

14

5. Provide for the Council as many staff and external points of view and opinions as
needed for fully informed Council decisions.

6. Advise the Council if, the Council or individual members are not in compliance with
the Council’s policies, particularly in the case of Council or Council member behavior that is
detrimental to the work relationship between the Council and the Mayor.

7. Provide a mechanism for official Council, officer or committee communication.

8. Work with the Council as a whole except when:

a. Fulfilling reasonable individual requests for information.
b. Working with officers or committees duly charged by the Council.
c. Communicating with the Mayor.

9. Report in a timely manner any actual or anticipated noncompliance with any Council
or other policy.

10. Supply sufficient information about items on the agenda to enable Mayors of the
Council to make informed decisions.

11. Provide to Council members a draft copy of Council meeting minutes within twenty
(20) working days after each meeting.

12. Provide electronic notice to Council members, including a proposed agenda and related
information at least five days prior to a scheduled Council meeting.

13. Supply for the consent agenda all items delegated to the Mayor, yet required by law or
contract to be Council-approved, along with monitoring assurance.

ARTICLE XV —- ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY

Section 1 — General: This acceptable use policy constitutes a “written policy of the public

servant’s entity” for the purposes of Utah Code Ann. § 76-8-402(1)(a)(iii).

Section 2 — Authorization: Township public servants are authorized to use public property

for personal use as provided in this Article.

Section 3 — Guidelines: Township public servants are encouraged to use Township public

property of in a manner that complies with the following:

1. The use does not damage the public property;

2. The use does not cost the Township more than $2,500.00;

15

3. The use does not interfere with use of the public property as intended for the public

use; and

4. The use allows public servants who have been authorized, formally or informally, to

use SCSA# equipment for personal use to do so in accordance with state laws.

Section 4— Warnings: If the Council, a Council member, or a Township supervisor believes
that a public servant is using public property in a manner contrary to the guidelines set forth in
Article XV, Section 3, the Council, Council members, or supervisor will give the public servant a
written statement that describes the public servant’s improper use of SCSA# public property and
informs the public servant that he or she should immediately stop using the public property in a
manner that is contrary to the guidelines.

Section 5— Repeat Violations: A public servant will violate this Article if he or she:

1. Receives a warning under Section 4 of this Article that is not appealed or is upheld by

the Council; and

2. Uses public property in the same or in a substantially similar manner as set forth in the

previously issued warning within a year of that warning.

Section 6 — Demand for Payment: If a public servant violates this Article, the Township
will demand in writing that the applicable public servant repay the full cost of his or use personal
use of public property. Any written demand that the Township issues under this Section must
include the total amount owing, an explanation of how the Township calculated the amount owing,
and a deadline for the public servant to repay the amount owing. The public servant’s use of the
public property will be deemed to be unauthorized if the public servant does not repay the amount
owing within the time allotted in the written demand. Provided, however, that a public servant may
respond to a written demand by requesting a re-payment schedule, which request the Council, in
its sole discretion may approve or deny. If the Council establishes a re-payment schedule, failure
of the public servant to comply with that re-payment schedule will constitute the unauthorized use
of Township public property.

Section 7— Appeals: A public servant may appeal a warning or demand for payment issued
under this Article to the Council ifthe public servant believes the warning or demand for payment
is in error or is otherwise improper under this Article or applicable law. The public servant must
file a written appeal with the Council within 10 days of the public servant’s receipt of the warning
or demand for payment. The Council will hear the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting
or, in its discretion, hold a special meeting to hear the appeal. When hearing an appeal filed under
this Section, the Council will review the warning or demand for payment de novo along with any
information or evidence provided by the public servant. The public servant will bear the burden of
proof of showing by a preponderance of the evidence that the warning or demand for payment is
in error. The Council will issue a written decision explaining the reasoning for its decision and
will provide the public servant with a copy of its decision, provided that any decision issued under
this Section must include the following disclaimer: “This decision pertains to an internal Township
employment matter and does not constitute evidence of any criminal wrongdoing.”

16

Section 8 — Disciplinary Action:

1. A public servant who violates this Article will be subject to all applicable disciplinary
actions set forth in this Policy and may be subject to civil and criminal penalties under Utah
and federal law, depending on the circumstances, provided:

a. If an independent contractor violates this Article, such violation will constitute
grounds for the Township to rescind or void a contract entered into with that independent
contractor;

b. A Council member who violates this Article may be subject to civil and criminal
penalties, including but not limited to disqualification from office pursuant to Utah Code
Ann. § 76-8-404; and

c. The Council may, in its discretion, refer violations under this Article to the
appropriate law enforcement authorities if the Council has reason to believe that a public
servant has committed a crime.

ARTICLE XVI —- HIGHER LAW TO CONTROL AND SEVERABILITY

In the event of any conflict between this Policy and any applicable federal or state law, rule or
regulation, the law, rule or regulation, including amendments and modifications thereto, shal!
control to the extent of such inconsistency. The provisions of this Policy are further declared to be
severable, and if any provision of this Policy shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unconstitutional or if the application of this Policy to any person or circumstance is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional, such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions
of the ordinance codified in this Policy.

17
