                       COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                              ORDINANCE # 2019-09-03
                                 September 18, 2019

AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING TITLE 12 OF THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
 MUNICIPAL CODE TO ENACT A “CODE ENFORCEMENT AND COMMUNITY
                   ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM”

        WHEREAS, the current remedies available for ordinance enforcement rely heavily on
fines and court action to resolve violations of the Copperton Metro Township Code; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §10-2a-414(3), the Copperton Metro
Township’s code enforcement provisions are based on Salt Lake County’s ordinances and were
enacted pursuant to Title 17, which pertains to counties, as opposed to Title 10, which governs
municipalities; and

        WHEREAS, resolving code enforcement actions through the current enforcement process
is often costly, can take years to resolve, and can allow violations to exist unabated for significant
periods to time, forcing citizens to endure an unsightly and unhealthy living environment; and

        WHEREAS, under the County’s process, fines and penalties would accrue on a daily basis
while violations of the Copperton Metro Township Code awaited resolution in court, potentially
resulting in substantial, cumulative fines for relatively minor violations; and

       WHEREAS, other municipalities in Utah utilize a combination of administrative, civil,
and criminal remedies to bring about compliance with municipal ordinances, and such an approach
can bring about compliance in a reasonable amount of time and in a more cost-effective manner;
and

         WHEREAS, the Copperton Metro Township Planning and Zoning Commission
(“Commission”) held a public hearing on July 9, 2019, to review and take public comment on the
proposed adoption of a new, more comprehensive code enforcement program (the “Program”)
that is based on Title 10 of the Utah Code and would be set forth in Title 12 of the Metro Township
Code; and

      WHEREAS, after holding the public hearing on July 9, 2019, the Commission
recommended the adoption of the Program and the amendments of Chapter 19.94; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-205(3), the Council held a public
meeting on August 19, 2019, to review the Program as recommended by the Commission and to
take public comment; and

        WHEREAS, after reviewing Program as recommended by the Commission, the Council
instructed the Copperton Metro Township attorney to amend the Program as set forth in the version
of the Program attached hereto; and

       WHEREAS, the Council is authorized to enact the Program and the amendments to
Chapter 19.94 pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-3-702 – 703.7, 10-3-716, 10-8-60, and 10-11-1,

                                                  1
et seq., among other applicable laws and authorities;

        WHEREAS, the Council hereby determines that it is in the best interests of the health,
safety, and welfare of the citizens of the Copperton Metro Township to adopt immediately the
Program to facilitate compliance with municipal ordinances and to safeguard the appearance of
the community.

         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Copperton Metro Township Council
that:

       Section 1.      Enactment. Title 12 of the Copperton Metro Township Code, as set forth
in Exhibit A, is hereby enacted.

       Section 2.      Amendment. Chapter 19.94 of the Copperton Metro Township Code is
revised pursuant to the changes set forth in Exhibit B.

        Section 2.       Repealer. Any provision of the Copperton Metro Township Code found to
be in conflict with this ordinance is hereby repealed.

       Section 3.     Effective Date. This ordinance will go into effect immediately after its
posting pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-711(1)(b)(ii) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.

        APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah this
18th day of September, 2019.


                                                        By:
                                                              Sean Clayton, Mayor

ATTEST


By:
      Sherrie Swensen, Salt Lake County Clerk
      Copperton Metro Township/Recorder


VOTING

Council Member Bailey voting            Yea
Council Member Clayton voting           Yea
Council Member Patrick voting           Yea
Council Member Pazell voting            Yea
Council Member Severson voting          Yea




                                                2
            TITLE 12 – CODE ENFORCEMENT AND COMMUNITY
                        PRESERVATION PROGRAM
                                  CHAPTER 12.1 – GENERAL

12.1.010       SHORT TITLE.

This Title 12 shall be known as the “Code Enforcement and Community Preservation Program.”
It may be cited and pleaded under either designation.

12.1.020       AUTHORITY.

The Copperton Metro Township Metro Township promulgates this Ordinance pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. §§ 10-3-702– 703.7; 10-3-716; 10-8-60; 10-11-1, et seq.; 76-10-801, et seq.; and any
other applicable law or successor statute(s).

12.1.030       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

(1)      Findings. The Council finds that the enforcement of its Municipal Code and abatement of
illegal or dangerous conditions are vital to the protection of the public's health, safety, welfare, and
quality of life.

(2)    Purpose. The purpose of this Title is to provide precise, comprehensive, fair and equitable
code enforcement regulations that can be effectively applied in administrative hearings and judicial
proceedings.

12.1.040       SCOPE.

The provisions of this Title may be applied to all violations of the Copperton Metro Township
Code.

12.1.050       EFFECT ON EXISTING ORDINANCES AND LAWS.

(1)    The provisions of this Title do not invalidate any other provision of the Copperton Metro
Township code, but shall be read in conjunction therewith as an additional mechanism for the
enforcement of with the Code as well as any and all other applicable laws.

(2)     The provisions of this Title and all proceedings hereunder shall be construed to give effect
to the purpose of this Title and to promote justice.

(3)    In a conflict between any provision of this Title and any other provision of the Copperton
Metro Township Code, this Title shall control

12.1.060       CRIMINAL PROSECUTION RIGHT.

Copperton Metro Township has sole discretion in deciding whether to file a civil or criminal case,
or both, for the violation of any of its ordinances. The enactment of the administrative remedies


                                                   1
set forth in this Title shall in no way interfere with Copperton Metro Township right to prosecute
ordinance violations as criminal offenses in a court of law. If Copperton Metro Township chooses
to file both civil and criminal charges for the same violation, no civil penalties may be assessed,
but all other remedies shall remain available.

12.1.070       EFFECT OF HEADINGS.

Headings contained in this Title are for reference purposes and shall not be deemed to limit,
modify, or in any manner affect the scope, meaning or interpretation of any part or provision
hereof.

12.1.080       VALIDITY OF TITLE – SEVERABILITY.

Should a court of competent jurisdiction hold any provision of this Title invalid, illegal, or
otherwise unenforceable for any reason, such decision shall not affect the validity or enforceability
of the remaining provisions of this Title, which shall remain in full force and effect. This Section
shall apply to all amendments heretofore or hereafter made to this Title.

12.1.090       NO MANDATORY DUTY – CIVIL LIABILITY.

In establishing performance standards for or an obligation to act by Copperton Metro Township
officers, employees, or designees, the provisions of this Title shall not be construed as creating a
mandatory duty for purposes of tort liability.

12.1.100       GENERAL RULES OF INTERPRETATION OF ORDINANCES.

For purposes of this Title:

(1)    Any gender pronoun includes the pronoun for any other gender(s).

(2)    “Shall” is mandatory; “may” is permissive.

(3)    “Or” is always inclusive.

(4)    The singular number includes the plural, and the plural the singular.

(5)    Words used in the present tense include the past and future tenses, and vice versa.

(6)    Words and phrases used in this Title, and not specifically defined, shall be construed
according to their context and ordinary usage.

(7)    The term “include” is not exhaustive and does not create an exclusive list.

12.1.110       DEFINITIONS APPLICABLE TO TITLE GENERALLY.

The following words and phrases, as used in this Title shall be defined as follows, unless the
context otherwise requires:

(1)    “Abate” or “Abatement” means to take such action as may be necessary, or any action so


                                                 2
taken, to remove or alleviate a violation on public or private property, and on any adjacent
property, including, but not limited to, demolition, removal, repair, boarding, and securing or
replacement of property.

(2)    “Administrative Code Enforcement Order” means an order issued by an Administrative
Law Judge, including an order to abate a violation, pay civil penalties and administrative costs, or
take any other action authorized or required by this Title and applicable state codes.

(3)   “Administrative Law Judge” or “hearing officer” means the position established by the
Copperton Metro Township Code § 1.16 “Administrative Hearing.”

(4)    “Agent” means the representative, by appointment or by law, of the legal or equitable
owner of real property, including as well, where necessary, such owner’s executor, administrator,
conservator, trustee, or guardian of the estate of the owner.

(5)     “Animal Control Administrator” means the supervisor of the Animal Control Division,
established in Copperton Metro Township Code § 8.1.

(6)   “Chief Building Inspector” means the official responsible for planning, directing, and
managing building inspection activities within Copperton Metro Township.

(7)     “Council" means the Copperton Metro Township Council.

(8)    “Code Enforcement Lien” means a lien recorded to collect outstanding civil penalties,
administrative fees, and costs.

(9)     “Code Enforcement Performance Bond” means a bond posted by a responsible person to
ensure compliance with the Copperton Metro Township Code, applicable state titles, a judicial
action, or an administrative code enforcement order.

(10)   “County” means Salt Lake County, Utah.

(11) “Department” means the Copperton Metro Township Planning and Development Services
Department or its designee.

(12) “Director” means the director of the Copperton Metro Township Planning and
Development Services Department, her authorized agent, or any other person/entity and their
authorized agent(s) that the Metro Township has authorized to provide code enforcement services.

(13) “Enforcement Official” means any person authorized to enforce the Copperton Metro
Township Code or applicable state codes.

(14) “Financial Institution” means any person that holds a recorded mortgage or deed of trust
on a property.

(15) “Fire Department” means the entity responsible for providing fire and emergency services
to Copperton Metro Township.




                                                 3
(16) “Good Cause” means (a) incapacitating illness or death; (b) lack of proper notice; (c)
unavoidable emergency or other mitigating circumstance; (d) imminent, irreparable injury; or (e)
other forces majeures.

(17) “Imminent Life Safety Hazard” means any condition that creates a present, extreme, and
immediate danger to life, property, health, or public safety.

(18) “Legal Interest” means any interest represented by a document, such as a deed of trust,
quitclaim deed, mortgage, judgment lien, tax or assessment lien, mechanic's lien, or other similar
instrument, recorded with the County Recorder.

(19) “Metro Township” or “Municipality” means the area within the territorial municipal limits
of Copperton Metro Township, together with such territory outside of Copperton Metro Township
over which it has jurisdiction or control by virtue of any constitutional or other legal provisions.

(20) “Minor violation” means nuisance violation, as defined by Utah state statute, regulation,
and judicial opinion, to include:

       a.      Land uses that do not conform to existing zoning;

       b.      Unauthorized collections of unlicensed, unregistered, or inoperable motor vehicles;

       c.      Illegal dumping or accumulation of trash, litter, or weeds;

       d.      Nuisance noise and lighting;

       e.      Illegal advertising; and

       f.      The unauthorized erection and use of news racks, merchandise displays, mobile
       food vending, and other illegal uses.

(21) “Notice of Compliance” means a document issued by the Copperton Metro Township,
representing that a property complies with the requirements outlined in a notice of violation.

(22) “Notice of Satisfaction” means a document in a form approved by the Administrative Law
Judge or his or her designee, indicating (a) (i) that all outstanding civil penalties and costs have
been paid in full, (ii) that White City has negotiated and agreed upon an amount to be paid over a
specific period of time, or (iii) that a subsequent administrative or judicial decision has resolved
the outstanding debt; and (b) that the property in question has been brought into compliance with
the requirements outlined in the notice of violation.

(23) “Notice of Violation” means written notice prepared by a Copperton Metro Township
enforcement official informing a responsible person of a code violation and ordering that steps be
taken to correct the violation.

(24)    “Person” means a natural person or a firm, partnership, corporation, trust, or other
association, or the authorized agent or employee of any of them, or any other entity recognized by
law as the subject of rights or duties.

(25)    “Program” means the Code Enforcement and Community Enhancement Program


                                                 4
authorized under this Title.

(26) “Property Owner” means the owner of real property as shown on the county assessor's
records.

(27) “Public Nuisance” means, in addition to the definition set forth in Utah Code § 76-10-
801(1), any condition that constitutes a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, or that
significantly obstructs, injures, or interferes with the reasonable use of property

(28) “Responsible Person” means a person in charge of, cares for, or has control over any
property or premises as the legal or equitable owner or agent of the owner. In all cases, “responsible
person” shall include the property owner of the premises, dwelling, or dwelling unit in question,
regardless of actual possession thereof.

(29) “Treasurer” means the Copperton Metro Township Treasurer as designated pursuant to
Utah Code Ann. § 10-3c-203.

(30) “Written” means transcribed in comprehensible words or pictograms, and includes
handwritten, typewritten, photocopied, computer printed, or facsimile.

(31) “Copperton Metro Township,” means the Copperton Metro Township, a municipal
corporation under Utah state law.

12.1.111       ACTS INCLUDE CAUSING, AIDING, AND ABETTING.

Any act or omission made unlawful by this Title includes causing, permitting, aiding, or abetting
such act or omission.

12.1.200       PART 2 – SERVICE REQUIREMENTS.

12.1.210       SERVICE.

(1)    Service under this Title shall be made as follows:

      (a)       Notice shall be mailed through the U.S. Mail, registered mail with a return receipt,
      and first class mail without a return receipt requested, to the responsible person at his or her
      address as it appears on the records of the County recorder, or to such agent as may be
      authorized by appointment or by law to receive such service; and

      (b)        A copy of the notice mailed according to Subsection (1)(a) shall be delivered,
      within five business days of the mailing, to the occupant of the real property personally, or
      left at the real property with a person of suitable age and discretion who resides there. If the
      person to be served refuses to accept the copy of the notice, service is sufficient if the person
      serving it states the type of notice being served and offers to deliver it. If, following three
      attempts to deliver the notice to the occupant of the real property personally, no person of
      suitable age and discretion accepts service then the notice shall be left at or on the real
      property. Service is complete upon the sooner of (i) the date the return receipt is signed by
      the responsible person or his or her agent under Subsection (1)(a) hereof and (ii) ten (10)
      days following the mailing of the mailing of both notice letters required under Subsection


                                                  5
     (1)(a).

(2)    The failure to serve all responsible person(s) shall not affect the validity of any
proceedings.

12.1.220       CONSTRUCTIVE NOTICE OF RECORDED DOCUMENTS.

Whenever a document is recorded with the County recorder as authorized or required by this Title
or applicable state codes, recordation shall provide constructive notice of the information
contained in the recorded documents.

12.1.300       PART 3 – GENERAL AUTHORITY AND OFFENSES.

12.1.310       GENERAL ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.

Whenever the Director or enforcement official finds that a violation of the Copperton Metro
Township Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to exist, the appropriate
administrative enforcement procedure may be used as outlined in this Title. The Director or any
designated enforcement official is authorized to enforce the provisions of the Metro Township
Code and applicable state codes. These powers include the power to issue notices of violation and
administrative citations, inspect public and private property, abate nuisances and unlawful or
dangerous conditions upon public and private property, and use whatever judicial and
administrative remedies are available under the Copperton Metro Township Code or applicable
state codes.

12.1.320       ADOPTION OF POLICY AND PROCEDURES.

The Administrative Law Judge shall develop and submit to the Council for approval such policies
and procedures, relating to hearing scope and procedure, subpoena powers, and such matters, as
shall afford equal protection of the law to and protect the due process rights of all parties.

12.1.330       AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.

(1)     The Director or any designated enforcement official, may, enter upon any property or
premises to ascertain whether there has been a violation of any of the provisions of the Copperton
Metro Township Code or applicable state codes and to examine or survey the property or premises,
or to take such samples, photographs, or evidence as may be necessary to this end.

(2)     All inspections, entries, examinations, and surveys shall be (a) based upon reasonable cause
and (b) carried out in a reasonable manner with reasonable prior oral notice to the responsible
person and the property occupant. If the responsible person requests it, the enforcement official
shall obtain a search warrant before entering upon the property or into the premises.

12.1.340       POWER TO ISSUE CITATION.

The Director or any designated enforcement official is authorized to issue a misdemeanor citation
or administrative citation to a person whenever any such official has probably cause to believe (1)
that the Copperton Metro Township Code has been or applicable state codes have been violated

                                                 6
and (2) that the person to be cited is responsible for the violation.

12.1.350       FALSE INFORMATION OR REFUSAL PROHIBITED.

It shall be unlawful for any person (1) to willfully make a false statement to, (2) to refuse to give
his or her name or address to, (3) to withhold information with intent to deceive, or (4) to interfere
with a duly authorized Copperton Metro Township official or agent in the performance of his or
her official duties under the provisions of this Title. A violation of this Section is a class B
misdemeanor.

12.1.360       FAILURE TO OBEY A SUBPOENA.

It is unlawful for any person to refuse or fail to obey a subpoena issued for an administrative code
enforcement hearing. Failure to obey a subpoena constitutes contempt and is a class B
misdemeanor.

           CHAPTER 12.2 – ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
                              PROCEDURES
12.2.010       AUTHORITY.

Any condition caused, maintained, or permitted in violation of any provisions of the Copperton
Metro Township Code or applicable state codes may be abated by Copperton Metro Township
officials pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Chapter.

12.2.020       NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

(1)     Whenever the Director or any designated enforcement official determines that a violation
of the Copperton Metro Township Code or applicable state codes has occurred or continues to
exist on real property within Copperton Metro Township, the Director or enforcement official shall
serve a notice of violation upon a responsible person pursuant to Section 12.1.210 hereof. The
notice of violation shall include the following information and shall comply with Utah Code § 10-
11-2 or the applicable successor statute(s):

      a.       The name of the property owner;

      b.       The street address of the property in violation;

      c.       The nature and results of the examination and investigation conducted;

      d.       The date and approximate time the violation was observed;

      e.        All code sections violated and a description of the condition of the property that
      violates the applicable codes;

      f.       A statement explaining the type of remedial action required to permanently correct
      outstanding violations, which may include repairs, removal, replacement, or other
      appropriate action;


                                                   7
      g.       A specific date by which the responsible party must correct the violations listed in
      the notice of violation, which date shall be at least ten business days from the date of service
      unless the Director determines that the violation requires emergency abatement under
      Section 12.2.200;

      h.        An explanation of the consequences of failure to comply with the terms of the
      notice of violation, which may include, but are not limited to, (i) civil penalties, (ii)
      assessment of administrative fees or other costs incurred by the Copperton Metro Township,
      (iii) recordation of the notice of violation, (iv) revocation of permits, (v) withholding of
      future municipal permits, (vi) criminal prosecution, or (vii) abatement of the violation by the
      City and the property owner’s repayment to the City of the costs of the abatement; ;

      i.        A statement that civil penalties will begin to accrue immediately upon expiration
      of the date set in Subsection (1)(g) for correction of the violations;

      j.       The amount of the civil penalty for each violation that will accrue daily until the
      property is brought into compliance;

      k.       An explanation of (i) the procedures to follow to appeal the notice and request a
      hearing as provided in Section 12.2.530, and (ii) the consequences of failure to request such
      a hearing; and

      l. An explanation of the procedures to follow to request an inspection after a violation has
      been abated pursuant to Section 12.2.040.

(2)   More than one notice of violation may be served upon the same responsible person, if they
encompass different violations.

(3)     If a notice of violation is issued on the same property for a violation of the same provision
of the Copperton Metro Township Code or Utah law within 12 months following the later of (i)
the date of issuance of the first notice of violation or (ii) the date of the request for inspection under
Section 12.2.040 of the Copperton Metro Township Code, then the civil penalties associated with
the second violation shall be doubled.

12.2.030        FAILURE TO BRING PROPERTY INTO COMPLIANCE.

(1)    (a)    If the responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within the
compliance period specified in the notice of violation, civil penalties shall accrue for each and
every subsequent day of violation.

(b)    Civil penalties accruing pursuant to Subsection (1) shall be immediately due and payable
to Copperton Metro Township.

(2)     Failure to comply with the notice of violation is a Class C misdemeanor.

12.2.040        INSPECTIONS.

(1)    It shall be the duty of the responsible person served with a notice of violation to request in
writing an inspection when his or her property has been brought into compliance. It is prima facie


                                                    8
evidence that the violation remains on the property if no inspection is requested.

(2)    (a)        Any inspection shall be carried out as soon as reasonably possible after it is
requested.

        (b)   Civil penalties shall accumulate daily until the property has been inspected and a
notice of compliance issued. Re-inspection fees shall be assessed if more than one inspection is
necessary.

12.2.200          PART 2 – EMERGENCY ABATEMENT

12.2.210          AUTHORITY.

(1)   Should the Director determine that an imminent danger exists to life or safety requiring
immediate remediation, the Director may, without prior notice to the responsible person,

      a.        Order the immediate removal of any tenants, and prohibit occupancy or entry until
      all repairs are completed, provided that any order prohibiting entry shall specify how entry
      may be made to mitigate damage, complete repairs, retrieve personal property, or for any
      other purpose, if any, during the abatement process;

      b.        Post visible notice on the exterior of the property or structure that is deemed unsafe
      that the premises as unsafe, substandard, or dangerous;

      c.          Board, fence, or otherwise secure the building or site;

      d.      Raze or grade that portion of the property or premises necessary to prevent collapse
      or remove any hazard to the public;

      e.          Make emergency repairs as necessary to eliminate any hazard; or

      f.          Take any other action appropriate to eliminate the emergency.

(2)    The Director or her agents may, given reasonable cause, enter a property without a search
warrant or court order in order to accomplish the above listed acts to abate any danger.

(3)    The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the abatement of the
danger. Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.220          PROCEDURES.

(1)     The Director shall pursue the least abatement necessary to eliminate the immediacy of the
hazard. Costs incurred by [insert metro township name] during the emergency abatement process
shall be assessed and recovered against the responsible person through the procedures outlined in
Chapter 12.3, below.

(2)        The Director may also pursue any other legal remedy to abate any remaining violations.




                                                    9
12.2.230       NOTICE OF EMERGENCY ABATEMENT.

Within 10 days after completion of an emergency abatement, the Copperton Metro Township shall
notify the responsible person in writing of the abatement action taken. This notice shall describe
in reasonable detail the abatement action taken and the cost thereof.

12.2.300       PART 3 – DEMOLITIONS

12.2.310       AUTHORITY.

Whenever the Director determines that a property or building requires demolition, he or she may
demolish or remove the offending structure, or exercise any or all of the powers listed in Section
12.2.210 once appropriate notice has been given to a responsible person pursuant to the Uniform
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code or Uniform Fire Codes as required under state law,
provided that the notice shall include a written description of the Director’s findings explaining
the need for the demolition and citations to the applicable ordinances or laws authorizing the
demolition. The responsible person shall be liable for all costs associated with the demolition.
Costs may be recovered pursuant to this Title.

12.2.320       PROCEDURES.

Once the Director has determined that the Copperton Metro Township Chief Building Inspector
or the Fire Department has complied with all of the notice requirements of the applicable laws, the
property will be demolished. Other applicable remedies may also be pursued.

12.2.400       PART 4 – ADMINISTRATIVE CITATIONS

12.2.410       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need for an alternative method of enforcement for minor violations
of the Copperton Metro Township Code and applicable state codes. The Council further finds that
an appropriate method of enforcement is an administrative citation program.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other legal
remedy established by law that may be pursued to address violations of the Copperton Metro
Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.2.420       AUTHORITY.

(1)    Any person violating any minor provision of the Copperton Metro Township Code or
applicable state codes may be issued an administrative citation by an enforcement official as
provided in this Part.

(2)    A civil penalty shall be assessed by means of an administrative citation issued by the
enforcement official, and shall be payable directly to the Treasurer's Office, or other offices
designated to receive payment on behalf of the Copperton Metro Township.

(3)    Penalties assessed by means of an administrative citation shall be collected in accordance


                                                10
with the procedures specified in the remedies section of this Title.

12-2-403.       PROCEDURES.

(1)     Upon discovering any violation of the Copperton Metro Township Code, or applicable
state codes, an enforcement official may issue an administrative citation to a responsible person in
the manner prescribed in this Part or as prescribed in Section 12.1.210. The administrative citation
shall be issued on a form approved by the Director.

(2)     If the responsible person is a business, the enforcement official shall attempt to locate the
business owner and issue an administrative citation to the business owner. If the enforcement
official can only locate the manager of the business, the administrative citation may be given to
the manager of the business. A copy of the administrative citation may also be mailed to the
business owner or any other responsible person in the manner prescribed in Section 12.1.210 of
this Title.

(3)      Once the responsible person has been located, the enforcement official shall attempt to
obtain the signature of that person on the administrative citation. If the responsible person refuses
or fails to sign the administrative citation, the failure or refusal to sign shall not affect the validity
of the citation and subsequent proceedings.

(4)    If the enforcement official is unable to locate the responsible person for the violation, then
the administrative citation shall be mailed to the responsible person in the manner prescribed in
Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

(5)    If no one can be located at the property, then the administrative citation may be posted in
a conspicuous place on or near the property and a copy subsequently mailed to the responsible
person in the manner prescribed by Section 12.1.210 of this Title.

(6)     The administrative citation shall also contain the signature of the enforcement official.

(7)     The failure of any person with an interest in the property to receive notice shall not affect
the validity of any proceedings taken under this Part.

12.2.440        CONTENTS OF ADMINISTRATIVE CITATION.

Administrative citations shall include the information required in Section 12.2.020 and shall:

(1)     State the amount of penalty imposed for the minor violations; and

(2)    Explain how the penalty shall be paid, the time period by which the penalty shall be paid,
and the consequences of failure to pay the penalty.

12.2.450        CIVIL PENALTIES ASSESSED.

(1)    The Council shall establish policies to assist in the assessment of civil penalties for
administrative citations.

(2)     Civil penalties shall be assessed immediately for each violation listed on the administrative


                                                   11
citation. The penalties shall be those established in the Consolidated Fee Schedule.

(3)     Payment of the penalty shall not excuse the failure to correct the violations, nor shall it bar
further enforcement action by the Copperton Metro Township.

12.2.500       PART 5 – HEARING PROCEDURES

12.2.510       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need to establish uniform procedures for administrative code
enforcement hearings conducted pursuant to the Copperton Metro Township Code. It is the
purpose and intent of the Council to afford due process of law to any person who is directly affected
by an administrative action. Due process of law includes notice, an opportunity to participate in
the administrative hearing, and an explanation of the reasons justifying the administrative action.
These procedures are also intended to establish a forum to efficiently, expeditiously, and fairly
resolve issues raised in any administrative code enforcement action.

12.2.520       AUTHORITY AND SCOPE OF HEARINGS.

The Administrative Law Judge will preside over hearings of Copperton Metro Township Code
violations. The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures to regulate the
hearing process for any violation of the Copperton Metro Township Code and applicable state
codes that are handled pursuant to the administrative abatement procedures, the emergency
abatement procedures, the demolition procedures, or the administrative citation procedures. If
there is a conflict between the appeal procedures in this Title and the appeal procedures in another
code incorporated by the Township, this Title shall control.

12.2.530       REQUEST FOR ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING.

(1)     A person served with one of the following documents or notices has the right to request an
administrative code enforcement hearing, if the request is filed within 20 calendar days from the
date of service of one of the following notices:

a.     Notice of violation;

b.     Notice of itemized bill for costs;

c.     Administrative citation;

d.     Notice of emergency abatement;

(2)     The request for hearing shall be made in writing and filed with the Administrative Law
Judge. The request shall contain the case number, the address of the violation, and the signature of
the responsible party.

(3)   As soon as practicable after receiving the written notice of the request for hearing, the
Administrative Law Judge shall schedule a date, time, and place for the hearing.

(4)    Failure to request a hearing as provided shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing


                                                  12
and a waiver of the right to challenge the action.

12.2.540       HEARINGS AND ORDERS.

(1)     If the responsible person fails to request a hearing before the expiration of the 20-day
deadline, the Director may request a default hearing, which the Administrative Law Judge shall
schedule. The responsible person shall be notified of the date, time, and place of the hearing by
one of the methods listed in Section 12.2.210.

(2)     A default hearing shall be scheduled for all cases that have outstanding or unpaid civil
penalties, fines, fees and/or costs due to the Copperton Metro Township before collection, if a
hearing on that case has not already been held.

(3)    At any hearing, the responsible person shall have the opportunity to present evidence to
show that good cause exists, as defined in the Title, to do one or more of the following in addition
to any other rights afforded under other provisions of the Copperton Metro Township Code or
applicable law:

a.     Waive or reduce the fines which have accumulated;

b.     Postpone an abatement action by the Copperton Metro Township; or

c.     Excuse the responsible person's failure to request a hearing within the 20-day period.

(4)     If the responsible person fails to establish good cause to take one or more of the actions set
forth in paragraph (3), the Administrative Law Judge shall review the notice of violation and any
other relevant information included in the case file. The Administrative Law Judge shall not accept
any other evidence.

a.      If the evidence shows that the violations existed, the Administrative Law Judge shall enter
an order requiring abatement of the violations, and the payment of all fines and fees. Fines shall
run until the Director or other duly authorized representative of the Copperton Metro Township
issues a Notice of Compliance stating when the violations were actually abated.

12.2.550 NOTIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
HEARING.

(1)    Written notice of the day, time, and place of the hearing shall be served to a responsible
person as soon as practicable prior to the date of the hearing.

(2)   The format and contents of the hearing notice shall be in accordance with rules and policies
promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

(3)    The notice of hearing shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section
12.1.210 of this Title.

12.2.560       DISQUALIFICATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

(1)    A responsible person may file a written motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge


                                                 13
for bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason for which a judge may be disqualified
in a court of law. The motion to disqualify shall be accompanied by an affidavit or unsworn
declaration as described in Title 78B of the Utah Code or applicable successor statute(s) signed by
the responsible person, which shall:

a.     State that the motion is filed in good faith;

b.     Allege facts sufficient to show, bias, prejudice, a conflict of interest, or any other reason
that would disqualify a judge in a court of law in Utah; and

c.     State when and how the Responsible Party came to know of the reason for disqualification.

(2)    The responsible person must file the motion within 21 days of the assignment of the action
to an Administrative Law Judge or the date on which the responsible person knew or should have
known of the grounds on which the motion is based, whichever is later.

(3)     A responsible person can only file one motion to disqualify an Administrative Law Judge,
unless a second or subsequent motion is based on grounds that the responsible person did not know
of and could not have known of at the time of the earlier motion.

(4)     The Administrative Law Judge who is the subject of a motion to disqualify must, without
taking any further action, provide the Director with a copy of the motion and refer the motion to
the Council.

(5)      Upon receipt of a motion to disqualify, the Council will schedule and notice the matter for
review at its next regular scheduled meeting. The Council may, in its sole discretion, elect to hold
a special meeting to hear the motion before its next regularly scheduled meeting. The Council shall
first review the motion to disqualify to determine if it satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (1)
and (2) of this Section. If the motion to disqualify does not satisfy the requirements of this Section,
the Council will deny the motion and remand it to the Administrative Law Judge for further
proceedings. If the motion to disqualify satisfies the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this
Section, the Council shall determine whether the motion is legally sufficient to warrant
disqualification. If the Council determines that disqualification is warranted, it will assign the
matter to another Administrative Law Judge. If the Council determines that the motion to
disqualify is not legally sufficient, it will remand the matter back to the Administrative Law Judge.

12.2.570       POWERS OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE LAW JUDGE.

(1)    The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to hold hearings, determine if violations
of Copperton Metro Township ordinances exist, order compliance with Copperton Metro
Township ordinances, and enforce compliance as provided in this Title on any matter subject to
the provisions of the Title.

(2)     The Administrative Law Judge may continue a hearing based on good cause shown by one
of the parties to the hearing. The Administrative Law Judge must enter on the record the good
cause on which a continuance is granted.

(3)   The Administrative Law Judge, at the request of any party to the hearing, may sign
subpoenas for witnesses, documents, and other evidence where the attendance of the witness for


                                                  14
the admission of evidence is deemed necessary to decide the issues at the hearing. All costs related
to the subpoena, including witness and mileage fees, shall be borne by the party requesting the
subpoena. The Administrative Law Judge shall develop policies and procedures relating to the
issuance of subpoenas in administrative code enforcement hearings, including the form of the
subpoena and related costs.

(4)    The Administrative Law Judge has continuing jurisdiction over the subject matter of an
administrative code enforcement hearing for the purposes of granting a continuance; ordering
compliance by issuing an administrative code enforcement order using any remedies available
under the law; ensuring compliance of that order, which includes the right to authorize the
Copperton Metro Township to enter and abate a violation; modifying an administrative code
enforcement order; or, where extraordinary circumstances exist, granting a new hearing.

(5)    The Administrative Law Judge has the authority to require a responsible person to post a
code enforcement performance bond to ensure compliance with an administrative code
enforcement order.

12.2.580 PROCEDURES AT ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
HEARING.

(1)     Administrative code enforcement hearings are intended to be informal in nature. Formal
rules of evidence and discovery do not apply; however, an informal exchange of discovery may
be required. The request must be in writing. Failure to request discovery shall not be a basis for a
continuance. Complainant information is protected and shall not be released unless the
complainant is a witness at the hearing. The procedure and format of the administrative hearing
shall follow the procedures promulgated by the Administrative Law Judge.

(2)    The Copperton Metro Township bears the burden of proof at an administrative code
enforcement hearing to establish the existence of a violation of the Copperton Metro Township
Code or applicable state codes.

(3)     The standard of proof to be used by the Administrative Law Judge in deciding the issues
at an administrative hearing is whether the preponderance of the evidence shows that the violations
exist.

(4)     Each party shall have the opportunity to cross-examine witnesses and present evidence in
support of his or her case. A written declaration signed under penalty of perjury may be accepted
in lieu of a personal appearance. Testimony may be given by telephone or other electronic means.

(5)     All hearings are open to the public. They shall be recorded by audio tape. Hearings may be
held at the location of the violation.

(6)    The responsible person has a right to be represented by an attorney. If an attorney will be
representing the responsible person at the hearing, notice of the attorney's name, address, and
telephone number must be given to the Copperton Metro Township at least one day prior to the
hearing. If notice is not given, the hearing may be continued at the Copperton Metro Township’s
request, and all costs of the continuance assessed to the responsible person.

(7)    No new hearing shall be granted, unless the Administrative Law Judge determines that


                                                15
extraordinary circumstances exist which justify a new hearing.

12.2.590. FAILURE TO ATTEND ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT
HEARING.

Any party whose property or actions are the subject of any administrative code enforcement
hearing and who fails to appear at the hearing is deemed to waive the right to a hearing, and will
result in a default judgment for the Copperton Metro Township, provided that proper notice of the
hearing has been provided.

12.2.591       ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT ORDER.

(1)     Once all evidence and testimony are completed, the Administrative Law Judge shall issue
an administrative code enforcement order that affirms, modifies, or rejects the notice or citation.
The Administrative Law Judge may increase or decrease the total amount of civil penalties and
costs that are due pursuant to the Copperton Metro Township's fee schedule and the procedures in
this Title.

(2)     The parties may enter into a stipulated agreement, which must be signed by both parties.
This agreement shall be entered as a stipulated administrative code enforcement order. Entry of
this agreement shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing and the right to appeal.

(3)    The Administrative Law Judge may order the Copperton Metro Township to enter the
property and abate all violations, including but not limited to demolitions and the removal of
vehicles, garbage, animals, and other property kept in violation of the Copperton Metro Township
Code.

(4)    The Administrative Law Judge may revoke a kennel permit, an animal license, or the right
to possess animals as provided in the Copperton Metro Township Code.

(5)    As part of the administrative code enforcement order, the Administrative Law Judge may
condition the total or partial assessment of civil penalties on the responsible person's ability to
complete compliance by specified deadlines.

(6)    The Administrative Law Judge may schedule subsequent review hearings as may be
necessary or as requested by a party to the hearing to ensure compliance with the administrative
code enforcement order.

(7)    The Administrative Law Judge may order the responsible person to post a performance
bond to ensure compliance with the order.

(8)    The administrative code enforcement order shall become final on the date of the signing of
the order.

(9)   The administrative code enforcement order shall be served on all parties by any one of the
methods listed in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.




                                                16
12-2-595       FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH ORDER.

(1)     Upon the failure of the responsible person to comply with the terms and deadlines set forth
in the administrative code enforcement order, the Copperton Metro Township may abate the
violation as provided in Chapter 3, Part 3 of this Title and use all appropriate legal means to recover
the civil penalties and administrative costs to obtain compliance.

(2)   After the Administrative Law Judge issues an administrative code enforcement order, the
Administrative Law Judge shall monitor the violations and determine compliance.

12.2.600       PART 6 – ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT APPEALS

12.2.610  APPEAL OF ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING
DECISION.

(1)     Any person adversely affected by any decision made in the exercise of the provisions of
this Chapter may file a petition for review of the decision or order by the district court within 30
days after the decision is rendered.

(2)     No person may challenge in district court an administrative code enforcement hearing
officer's decision until that person has exhausted his or her administrative remedies.

(3)     Within 120 days after submitting the petition, the party petitioning for appeal shall request
a copy of the record of the proceedings, including transcripts of hearings when necessary. The
Administrative Law Judge shall not submit copies of files or transcripts to the reviewing court
until the party petitioning for appeal has paid all required costs. The petitioning party's failure to
properly arrange for copies of the record, or to pay the full costs for the record, within 180 days
after the petition for review was filed shall be grounds for dismissal of the petition.

a.      If a transcript of a hearing cannot be prepared because the tape recording is incomplete or
unintelligible, the district court may, in its discretion, remand the matter to the Administrative Law
Judge for a supplemental proceeding to complete the record. The district court may limit the scope
of the supplemental proceeding to issues that, in the court's opinion, need to be clarified.

(4)     The district court's review is limited to the record of the administrative decision that is
being appealed. The court shall not accept nor consider any evidence that is not part of the record
of that decision.

(5)    The courts shall:

a.      Presume that the administrative code enforcement hearing officer's decision and orders are
valid; and

b.       Review the record to determine whether or not the decision was arbitrary, capricious, or
illegal.




                                                  17
     CHAPTER 12.3 – ADMINISTRATIVE AND JUDICIAL REMEDIES
12.3.100        PART 1 –RECORDATION OF NOTICES OF VIOLATION

12.3.110        DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that there is a need for alternative methods of enforcement for violations of the
Copperton Metro Township Code and applicable state codes that are found to exist on real
property. The Council further finds that an appropriate method of enforcement for these types of
violations is the issuance and recordation of notices of violation.

The procedures established in this Part shall be in addition to criminal, civil, or any other remedy
established by law that may be pursued to address the violation of the Copperton Metro Township
Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.120        AUTHORITY.

Whenever the Director determines that a property or violation has not been brought into
compliance as required in this Title, the Director has the authority, in his or her discretion, to record
the notice of violation or administrative code enforcement order with the County Recorder's
Office.

12.3.130        PROCEDURES FOR RECORDATION.

(1)    Once the Director has issued a notice of violation to a responsible person, and the property
remains in violation after the deadline established in the notice of violation, and no request for an
administrative hearing has been filed, the Director shall record a notice of violation with the
County Recorder's Office.

(2)   If an administrative hearing is held, and an order is issued in the Copperton Metro
Township's favor, the Director shall record the administrative code enforcement order with the
County Recorder's Office.

(3)    The recordation shall include the name of the property owner, the parcel number, the legal
description of the parcel, and a copy of the notice of violation or order.

(4)    The recordation does not encumber the property, but merely places future interested parties
on notice of any continuing violation found upon the property.

12.3.140        SERVICE OF NOTICE OF RECORDATION.

A notice of the recordation shall be served on the responsible person and the property owner
pursuant to any of the methods of service set forth in Section 12.1.210 of this Title.




                                                   18
12.3.150        FAILURE TO REQUEST.

The failure of any person to file a request for an administrative code enforcement hearing when
served with a notice of violation shall constitute a waiver of the right to an administrative hearing
and shall not affect the validity of the recorded notice of violation.

12.3.160        NOTICE OF COMPLIANCE – PROCEDURES.

(1)    When the violations have been corrected, the responsible person or property owner may
request an inspection of the property from the Director.

(2)     Upon receipt of a request for inspection, the Director shall re-inspect the property as soon
as practicable to determine whether the violations listed in the notice of violation or the order have
been corrected, and whether all necessary permits have been issued and final inspections have been
performed.

(3)     The Director shall serve a notice of satisfaction to the responsible person or property owner
in the manner provided in Section 12.2.210 of this Title, if the Director determines that:

(4)     All violations listed in the recorded notice of violation or order has been corrected;

(5)     All necessary permits have been issued and finalized;

(6)     All civil penalties assessed against the property have been paid or satisfied; and

(7)     The party requesting the notice of satisfaction has paid all administrative fees and costs.

(8)     If the Director denies a request to issue a notice of satisfaction, upon request, the Director
shall serve the responsible person with a written explanation setting forth the reasons for the denial.
The written explanation shall be served by any of the methods of service listed in Section 12.1.210
of this Title.

12.3.170 WITHHOLDING OF MUNICIPAL PERMITS FOR NONCOMPLIANT
PROPERTIES.

The Copperton Metro Township may, in its sole discretion, withhold any municipal permit that
has been requested for a property that is in violation of any provision of the Copperton Metro
Township Code until the Director issues a notice of satisfaction for the applicable violation(s)
pursuant to this Title. The Copperton Metro Township may not withhold permits that are necessary
to obtain a notice of satisfaction or that are necessary to correct serious health and safety violations.

12.3.180        CANCELLATION OF RECORDED NOTICE OF VIOLATION.

The Director or responsible person shall record the notice of satisfaction with the County
Recorder's Office. Recordation of the notice of satisfaction shall cancel the recorded notice of
violation.




                                                   19
12.3.200       PART 2 – ADMINISTRATIVE CIVIL PENALTIES

12.3.210       AUTHORITY.

(1)     Any person violating any provision of the Copperton Metro Township Code, or applicable
state codes, may be subject to the assessment of civil penalties for each violation.

(2)     Each and every day a violation of any provision of the Copperton Metro Township Code
or applicable state codes exists is a separate violation subject to the assessment of civil penalties.

(3)    Civil penalties cannot be assessed when a criminal case has been filed for the same date
and violation, because fines will be assessed with the criminal case.

(4)     Interest shall be assessed per Copperton Metro Township policy, or at the judgment rate
provided in Utah Code Ann. § 15-1-4 in the absence of a Copperton Metro Township policy, on
all outstanding civil penalties balances until the case has been paid in full.

(5)    Civil penalties for violations of any provision of the Copperton Metro Township Code or
applicable state codes shall be assessed pursuant to the Copperton Metro Township’s applicable
fee schedule.

12.3.220       PROCEDURES FOR ASSESSING CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1)     If a responsible person fails to bring a violation into compliance within ten days of service
of the notice of violation, civil penalties shall be owed to the Copperton Metro Township for each
and every subsequent day of violation.

(2)    Civil penalties are assessed and owing immediately for any violation of the Copperton
Metro Township Code or applicable state codes for an administrative citation.

12.3.230       DETERMINATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1)    Civil penalties shall be assessed per violation per day pursuant to the applicable Copperton
Metro Township fee schedule.

(2)    Civil penalties shall continue to accrue until the violation(s) has/have been brought into
compliance with the Copperton Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.240       MODIFICATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1)    Upon completion of the notice of violation or administrative enforcement order, the
responsible person may request a modification of the civil penalties on a finding of good cause.

(2)     Civil penalties may be waived or modified by the Administrative Law Judge, in his or her
discretion, if there is a finding of good cause based on the responsible person's claim of
nonconforming use or conditional use and:

(3)    The Copperton Metro Township’s need to verify the claim; or



                                                 20
(4)     The responsible person's filing of an application for either use before expiration of the date
to correct.

12.3.250       FAILURE TO PAY PENALTIES.

The failure of any person to pay civil penalties assessed within the specified time may result in the
Director pursuing any legal remedy to collect the civil penalties as provided in the law.

12.3.300       PART 3 – ABATEMENT OF VIOLATION

12.3.310       AUTHORITY TO ABATE.

The Director is authorized to enter upon any property or premises to abate the violation of the
Copperton Metro Township Code and applicable state codes pursuant to this Part. The Director is
authorized to assess all costs for the abatement to the responsible person and use any remedy
available under the law to collect the costs. If additional abatements are necessary within two years,
treble costs may be assessed against the responsible person(s) for the actual abatement.

12.3.320       PROCEDURES FOR ABATEMENT.

(1)    The Director may abate a violation pursuant to this Part after providing notice under
Section 12.2.020 and by following the process set forth in Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any
applicable successor statute(s) if the Responsible Party or Parties:

a.     Do not abate a violation within the time period prescribed in a notice issued pursuant to
Sections 12.2.020 and 12.2.400, et seq.; and

b.     The Responsible Party or Parties did not file a request for an administrative code
enforcement hearing under Section 12.2.530.

(2)     The Director may, in his or her discretion, request a default hearing pursuant to Section
12.2.504 but is not required to do so to abate the violation under this Part and may abate the
violation without a default hearing pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or applicable successor
statute(s).

(3)    The Director may use Copperton Metro Township personnel or a private contractor acting
under his or her direction or the direction of the Council to abate the violation.

(4)     Copperton Metro Township personnel or a private contractor may enter upon private
property in a reasonable manner to abate the ordinance violation as specified in the notice of
violation or administrative code enforcement order.

(5)     If the responsible person abates the violation before the Copperton Metro Township
performs the actual abatement pursuant to a notice of violation or administrative code enforcement
order, the Director may still assess all costs incurred by the Copperton Metro Township against
the responsible person.

(6)   When the abatement is completed, the Director shall prepare an itemized statement of the
work performed that complies with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor


                                                 21
statute(s).

(7)    The Director shall serve the itemized statement on the responsible person in accordance
with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor statute(s).

(8)     The Administrative Law Judge shall hear any appeals filed by a responsible person in
response to an itemized statement issued under this Part and shall conduct such appeals and any
related hearings in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-11-3 or any applicable successor
statute(s).

12.3.400       PART 4 – COSTS

12.3.410       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

(1)     The Council finds that there is a need to recover costs incurred by enforcement officials
and other Copperton Metro Township personnel who spend considerable time inspecting and re-
inspecting properties throughout the Copperton Metro Township in an effort to ensure compliance
with the Copperton Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

(2)     The Council further finds that the assessment of costs is an appropriate method to recover
expenses incurred for actual costs of abating violations, re-inspection fees, filing fees, attorney
fees, hearing officer fees, title search, and any additional actual costs incurred by the Copperton
Metro Township for each individual case. The assessment and collection of costs shall not preclude
the imposition of any administrative or judicial civil penalties or fines for violations of the
Copperton Metro Township Code or applicable state codes.

12.3.420       AUTHORITY.

(1)     Whenever actual costs are incurred by the Copperton Metro Township on a property to
obtain compliance with provisions of the Copperton Metro Township Code and applicable state
codes, the Director may assess costs against the responsible person.

(2)    Once a notice of violation has been issued, the property will be inspected one time. Any
additional inspections shall be subject to re-inspection fees pursuant to the applicable Copperton
Metro Township fee schedule as adopted in the Copperton Metro Township’s annual budget.

12.3.430       NOTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENT OF REINSPECTION FEES.

(1)   Notification of any applicable re-inspection fees adopted by the Copperton Metro
Township shall be provided on the notice of violation served to the responsible person(s).

(2)     Re-inspection fees assessed or collected pursuant to this Part shall not be included in any
other costs assessed.

(3)     The failure of any responsible person to receive notice of the re-inspection fees shall not
affect the validity of any other fees imposed under this Part.




                                                22
12.3.440       FAILURE TO TIMELY PAY COSTS.

The failure of any person to pay assessed costs by the deadline specified in the invoice shall result
in a late fee pursuant to Copperton Metro Township policy.

12.3.500       PART 5 – ADMINISTRATIVE FEES

12.3.510       ADMINISTRATIVE FEES.

The Director or the Administrative Law Judge is authorized to assess administrative fees for costs
incurred in the administration of this program, such as investigation of violations, preparation for
hearings, hearings, and the collection process. The fee assessed shall be the amount set in the
applicable Copperton Metro Township fee schedule.


12.3.600       PART 6 –- INJUNCTIONS

12.3.610       CIVIL VIOLATIONS – INJUNCTIONS.

In addition to any other remedy provided under the Copperton Metro Township Code or state
codes, including criminal prosecution or administrative remedies, any provision of the Copperton
Metro Township Code may be enforced by injunction issued in the Third District Court upon a
suit brought by the Copperton Metro Township.


12.3.700       PART 7 – PERFORMANCE BONDS

12.3.710       PERFORMANCE BOND.

(1)     As part of any notice, order, or action, the Director or Administrative Law Judge has the
authority to require responsible persons to post a performance bond to ensure compliance with the
Copperton Metro Township Code, applicable state codes, or any judicial action.

(2)     If the responsible person fails to comply with the notice, order, or action, the bond will be
forfeited to the Copperton Metro Township. The bond will not be used to offset the other
outstanding costs and fees associated with the case.




                                                 23
 CHAPTER 12.4 - RECOVERY OF CODE ENFORCEMENT PENALTIES
                        AND COSTS
12.4.100       PART 1 – CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIENS

12.4.110       DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.

The Council finds that recordation of code enforcement tax liens will assist in the collection of
civil penalties and administrative costs and fees assessed by the administrative code enforcement
hearing program or judicial orders. The Council further finds that collection of civil penalties,
costs, and fees assessed for code enforcement violations is important in deterring future violations
and maintaining the integrity of White City’s code enforcement system. The procedures
established in this Part shall be used to complement existing administrative or judicial remedies
that may be pursued to address violations of the Copperton Metro Township or applicable state
codes.

12.4.120       PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITHOUT A JUDGMENT.

(1)     Once the Copperton Metro Township has abated weeds, garbage, refuse, or unsightly or
deleterious objects or structures on the property, the Director shall prepare three copies of an
Itemized Statement of Costs incurred in the removal and destruction of the violations and deliver
them to the Copperton Metro Township Mayor within 10 days after completion of the abatement.

(2)     The Director shall serve upon the responsible person, pursuant to Section 12.1.210 hereof,
(a) a copy of the Itemized Statement of Costs ; and (b) an explanation that a code enforcement tax
lien is being recorded for the amount of the actual costs of the abatement. Payment shall be due
within 20 calendar days after receipt by the responsible person of the copy of the Itemized
Statement of Costs.

(3)     Upon the responsible person’s receipt of the Itemized Statement of costs, the White City
Mayor shall record a Code Enforcement Tax Lien against the property subject to the abatement
actions with the County Treasurer's office.

(4)    The failure of any person with a financial interest in the property, except the property
owner, to actually receive notice of the lien shall not affect the validity of the lien or any
proceedings taken to collect the outstanding costs of abatement.

12.4.130       PROCEDURES FOR TAX LIENS WITH A JUDGMENT.

Once a judgment has been obtained from the appropriate court assessing costs against the
responsible person(s), the Director may record a code enforcement tax lien against any real
property owned by the responsible person(s).

12.4.140.      CANCELLATION OF CODE ENFORCEMENT TAX LIEN.

Once payment in full has been received for outstanding civil penalties and costs, or the amount is
deemed satisfied pursuant to a subsequent administrative or judicial order, the Director shall either
(a) record a Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment, or (b) provide the property owner or financial


                                                 24
institution with a Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment so that it can record this notice with the county
recorder's office. The Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment shall include the same information as
provided for in the original Code Enforcement Tax Lien. The Notice of Satisfaction of Judgment
shall cancel the code enforcement tax lien.

12.4.200       PART 2 – COLLECTION BY WRIT

After obtaining a judgment, the Director may collect the obligation by use of all appropriate legal
means, including (a) filing a writ with an applicable court for execution on personal property
owned by the responsible person, or (b) the garnishment of paychecks, financial accounts, and
other income or financial assets by filing a writ with the applicable court.

12.4.400 PART 4 – ALLOCATION OF FUNDS COLLECTED UNDER
ADMINISTRATIVE CODE ENFORCEMENT HEARING PROGRAM

12.4.410       ABATEMENT FUND.

There is hereby established a revolving fund to be known as the “Abatement Fund” to defray costs
of administrative and judicial abatements. The fund shall be reimbursed by collection from the
property or property owner as specified in this Title. The Council shall establish accounting
procedures to ensure proper account identification, credit, and collection. This fund may be
operated and used in conjunction with procedures ordered or authorized under the abatement
provision of this Title.

12.4.420.      REPAYMENT TO ABATEMENT FUND.

All monies recovered from the sale or transfer of property, or by payment for actual abatement
costs, shall be paid to the municipal Treasurer, who shall credit the appropriate amount to the
Abatement Fund.

12.4.430       CODE ENFORCEMENT ADMINISTRATIVE FEES AND COST FUND.

Administrative fees and administrative costs, except for actual abatement costs, collected pursuant
to this Part shall be deposited in a fund established by the Council to enhance Copperton Metro
Township code enforcement efforts and to reimburse the Copperton Metro Township for
investigative and hearing costs. Fees and costs deposited in this fund shall be appropriated and
allocated in a manner determined by the Council. The Copperton Metro Township shall establish
accounting procedures in consultation with the Copperton Metro Township Auditor to ensure
proper account identification, credit, and collection.

12.4.440       ALLOCATION OF CIVIL PENALTIES.

(1)     Civil penalties collected pursuant to this Part shall be deposited in the Copperton Metro
Township General Fund. Civil penalties deposited in the fund shall be appropriated and allocated
in a manner determined by the Copperton Metro Township and Council. The Metro Township
Council shall establish accounting procedures to ensure proper account identification, credit, and
collection.


                                                  25
