COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
FRANCHISE ORDINANCE
ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
ORDINANCE NO. 20-04-01 DATE: April 15, 2020
AN ORDINANCE GRANTING AN ELECTRIC UTILITY FRANCHISE
AND GENERAL UTILITY EASEMENT TO ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER IN THE
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP, STATE OF UTAH, AND FIXING AND PRESCRIBING
THE CONDITIONS AND TERMS THEREOF

WHEREAS, Rocky Mountain Power, is a regulated public utility that provides electric power and
energy_to the citizens of the Copperton-Metro Township (the “Municipality”)} and- other
surrounding areas;

WHEREAS, providing electrical power and energy requires the installation, operation and
maintenance of power poles and other related facilities to be located within the public ways of the
Municipality;

WHEREAS, the Municipality, pursuant to the provisions of Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-21 has the
authority to regulate power line facilities within public ways and to grant to Rocky Mountain
Power a general utility easement for the use thereof:

WHEREAS, the Municipality desires to set forth the terms and conditions by which Rocky
Mountain Power shall use the public ways of the Municipality;

NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Municipality:

SECTION 1. Grant of Franchise and General Utility Easement. The Municipality hereby
grants to Rocky Mountain Power this Franchise and General Utility Easement (the “Franchise)
and the right, privilege and authority to construct, maintain, operate, upgrade, and relocate its
electrical distribution and transmission lines and related appurtenances, including underground
conduits and structures, poles, towers, wires, guy anchors, vaults, transformers, transmission lines,
and communication lines (collectively referred to herein as “Electric Facilities”) in, under, along,
over and across the present and future streets, alleys, public ways and public places (collectively
referred to herein as “Public Ways”) within the Municipality, for the purpose of supplying and =
transmitting electric power and energy to the inhabitants of the Municipality and persons and
corporations beyond the limits thereof.
SECTION 2. Term. The term of this Franchise is for twenty (20) years commencing on the date
of acceptance by Rocky Mountain Power as set forth in Section 3 below.
SECTION 3. Acceptance by Rocky Mountain Power. Within sixty (60) days after the passage
of this ordinance by the Municipality, Rocky Mountain Power shall file an unqualified written

1

acceptance thereof, with the Municipality Recorder otherwise the ordinance and the rights granted
herein shall be null and void.

SECTION 4. Non-Exclusive Franchise. The right to use and occupy the Public Ways of the
Municipality shall be nonexclusive and the Municipality reserves the right to use the Public Ways
for itself or any other entity; provided, however, that such use shall not unreasonably interfere with
existing Electric Facilities of Rocky Mountain Power or Rocky Mountain Power’s rights as granted
herein.

SECTION 5. Municipality Regulatory Authority. In addition to the provision herein contained,
the Municipality reserves the right to adopt such additional ordinances and regulations as may be
deemed necessary in the exercise of its police power for the protection of the health, safety and
welfare of its citizens and their properties or exercise any other rights, powers, or duties required
or authorized, under the Constitution of the State of Utah, the laws of Utah or Municipality
Ordinance.

SECTION 6. Indemnification. The Municipality shall in no way be liable or responsible for any
loss or damage to property or any injury to, or death of any person that may occur in the
construction, operation or maintenance by Rocky Mountain Power of its Electric Facilities. Rocky
Mountain Power shall indemnify, defend and hold the Municipality harmless from and against
claims, demands, liens and all liability or damage of whatsoever kind on account of Rocky
Mountain Power’s use of the Public Ways within the Municipality, and shall pay the costs of
defense plus reasonable attorneys’ fees for any claim, demand or lien brought thereunder. The
Municipality shall: (a) give prompt written notice to Rocky Mountain Power of any claim, demand
or lien with respect to which the Municipality seeks indemnification hereunder; and (b) permit
Rocky Mountain Power to assume the defense of such claim, demand, or lien. If such defense is
not assumed by Rocky Mountain Power, Rocky Mountain Power shall not be subject to liability
for any settlement made without its consent. Notwithstanding any provision hereof to the contrary,
Rocky Mountain Power shall not be obligated to indemnify, defend or hold the Municipality
harmless to the extent any claim, demand or lien arises out of or in connection with any negligent
or willful act or failure to act of the Municipality or any of its officers or employees.

SECTION 7. Annexation.

7.1 Extension of Municipality Limits. Upon the annexation of any territory to the
Municipality, the rights granted herein shall extend to the annexed territory to the extent the
Municipality has such authority. All Electrical Facilities owned, maintained, or operated by Rocky
Mountain Power located within any public ways of the annexed territory shall thereafter be subject --
to all of the terms hereof.

7.2 Notice of Annexation. When any territory is approved for annexation to the
Municipality, the Municipality shall, not later than ten (10) working days after passage of an
ordinance approving the proposed annexation, provide by certified mail to Rocky Mountain
Power: (a) each site address to be annexed as recorded on county assessment and tax rolls; (b) a
legal description of the proposed boundary change; and (c) a copy of the Municipality’s ordinance
approving the proposed annexation. The notice shall be mailed to:

2

Rocky Mountain Power Customer Contact Center

Attn: Annexations

P.O. Box 400

Portland, Oregon 97207-0400
With a copy to:

Rocky Mountain Power

Attn: Office of the General Counsel

1407 W North Temple, Room 320

Salt Lake City, UT 84116
SECTION 8. Plan, Design, Construction and Installation of Rocky Mountain Power
Facilities. ——

8.1 All Electrical Facilities installed or used under authority of this Franchise shall be
used, constructed and maintained in accordance with applicable federal, state and Municipality
laws, codes and regulations.

8.2 Except in the case of an emergency, Rocky Mountain Power shall, prior to
commencing new construction or major reconstruction work in the public way or street or other
public places, apply for a permit from the Municipality which permit shall not be unreasonably
withheld, conditioned, or delayed. Rocky Mountain Power will abide by all applicable ordinances
and all reasonable rules, regulations and requirements of the Municipality, and the Municipality
may inspect the manner of such work and require remedies as may be reasonably necessary to
assure compliance. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Rocky Mountain Power shall not be obligated
to obtain a permit to perform emergency repairs.

8.3 All Electric Facilities shall be located so as to cause minimum interference with the
Public Ways of the Municipality and shall be constructed, installed, maintained, cleared of
vegetation, renovated or replaced in accordance with applicable rules, ordinances and regulations
of the Municipality.

8.4 If, during the course of work on its Electrical Facilities, Rocky Mountain Power
causes damage to or alters the Public Way or public property, Rocky Mountain Power shall (at its
own cost and expense and in a manner reasonably approved by the Municipality) replace and
restore it in.as good a condition as existed before the work commenced. =

8.5 In addition to the installation of underground electric distribution lines as provided
by applicable state law and regulations, Rocky Mountain Power shall, upon payment of all charges
provided in its tariffs or their equivalent, place newly constructed electric distribution lines
underground as may be required by Municipality ordinance.

8.6 The Municipality shall have the right without cost to use all poles and suitable
overhead structures owned by Rocky Mountain Power within Public Ways for Municipality wires

3

used in connection with its fire alarms, police signal systems, or other public safety communication
lines used for governmental purposes; provided, however, any such uses shall be for activities
owned, operated or used by the Municipality for a public purpose and may include the provision
of CATV, internet, or similar services to the public, provided the Municipality follows Rocky
Mountain Power’s established process for joint use. Provided further, that Rocky Mountain Power
shall assume no liability nor shall it incur, directly or indirectly, any additional expense in
connection therewith, and the use of said poles and structures by the Municipality shall be in such
a manner as to prevent safety hazards or interferences with Rocky Mountain Power’s use of same.
Nothing herein shall be construed to require Rocky Mountain Power to increase pole size, or alter
the manner in which Rocky Mountain Power attaches its equipment to poles, or alter the manner
in which it operates and maintains its Electric Facilities. Municipality attachments shall be
installed and maintained in accordance with the reasonable requirements of Rocky Mountain
Power and the current edition of the National Electrical Safety Code pertaining to such
construction. Further, Municipality attachments shall be attached or installed only after written
approval by Rocky Mountain Power in conjunction with Rocky Mountain Power’s standard pole
attachment application process; such written approval shall not be unreasonably delayed or
withheld. Rocky Mountain Power shall have the right to inspect, at the Municipality’s expense,
such attachments to ensure compliance with this Section 8.6 and to require the Municipality to
remedy any defective attachments.

8.7. Rocky Mountain Power shall have the right to excavate the Public Rights of Ways
subject to reasonable conditions and requirements of the Municipality. Before installing new
underground conduits or replacing existing underground conduits, Rocky Mountain Power shall
first notify the Municipality of such work by written notice and shall allow the Municipality at its
own expense, (to include a pro rata share of the trenching costs),to share the trench of Rocky
Mountain Power to lay its own conduit therein,, provided that such action by the Town will not
unreasonably interfere with Rocky Mountain Power’s Electrical Facilities or delay project
completion.

8.8 Before commencing any street improvements or other work within a Public Way
that may affect Rocky Mountain Power’s Electric Facilities, the Municipality shall give written
notice to Rocky Mountain Power.

SECTION 9. Relocations of Electric Facilities.

9.1 The Municipality reserves the right to require Rocky Mountain Power to relocate
its Electric Facilities within the Public Ways in the interest of public convenience, necessity,
health, safety. or welfare at-no cost tothe Municipality. Within a reasonable period of time after =
written notice, Rocky Mountain Power shall promptly commence the relocation of its Electrical
Facilities. Before requiring a relocation of Electric Facilities, the Municipality shall, with the
assistance and consent of Rocky Mountain Power, identify a reasonable alignment for the relocated
Electric Facilities within the Public Ways of the Municipality. The Municipality shall assign or
otherwise transfer to Rocky Mountain Power all right it may have to recover the cost for the
relocation work and shall support the efforts of Rocky Mountain Power to obtain reimbursement.

A

9.2 Rocky Mountain Power shall not be obligated to pay the cost of any relocation that
is required or made a condition of a private development. If the removal or relocation of facilities
is caused directly or otherwise by an identifiable development of property in the area, or is made
for the convenience of a customer, Rocky Mountain Power may charge the expense of removal or
relocation to the developer or customer. For example, Rocky Mountain Power shall not be required
to pay relocation costs in connection with a road widening or realignment where the road project
is made a condition of or caused by a private development.

SECTION 10. Subdivision Plat Notification. Before the Municipality approves any new
subdivision and before recordation of the plat, the Municipality shall obtain Rocky Mountain
Power’s approval of Electrical Facilities, including underground facilities to be installed by the
developer, and associated rights of way depicted on the plat. A copy of the plat shall be mailed for
approval to Rocky Mountain Power:

Rocky Mountain Power

Attn: Estimating Department

12840 South Pony Express Road

Draper, UT 84020
SECTION 11. Vegetation Management. Rocky Mountain Power or its contractor may prune
all trees and vegetation which overhang the Public Ways, whether such trees or vegetation
originate within or outside the Public Ways to prevent the branches or limbs or other part of such
trees or vegetation from interfering with Rocky Mountain Power’s Electrical Facilities. Such
pruning shall comply with the American National Standard for Tree Care Operation (ANSI A300)
and be conducted under the direction of an arborist certified with the International Society of
Arboriculture. A growth inhibitor treatment may be used for trees and vegetation species that are
fast-growing and problematic. Nothing contained in this Section shall prevent Rocky Mountain
Power, when necessary and with the approval of the owner of the property on which they may be
located, from cutting down and removing any trees which overhang streets. Rocky Mountain

Power shall make best commercially reasonable efforts consistent with prudent utility practices,
including by written notice, door hanger, telephone or personal contact, to notify property owners
at least 72 hours prior to performing any vegetation pruning work on their property.
SECTION 12. Renewal. At least 120 days prior to the expiration of this Franchise, Rocky
Mountain Power and the Municipality either shall agree to extend the term of this Franchise for a
mutually acceptable period of time or the parties shall use best faith efforts to renegotiate a
replacement Franchise. In the event an extension or replacement franchise is not granted by the
Municipality upon expiration of this Franchise, Rocky Mountain:Power shall have the continued —+
right to use the Public Ways of the Municipality as set forth herein during the period of ongoing
negotiations between the Municipality and Rocky Mountain Power.
SECTION 13. Subcontractors. The requirement imposed on Rocky Mountain Power as part of
this Franchise shall apply to any contractor, subcontractor or other person or entity that Rocky
Mountain Power might engage to perform any of Rocky Mountain Power’s duties or
responsibilities under this Franchise.

5

SECTION 14. No Waiver. Neither the Municipality nor Rocky Mountain Power shall be
excused from complying with any of the terms and conditions of this Franchise by any failure of
the other, or any of its officers, employees, or agents, upon any one or more occasions to insist
upon or to seek compliance with any such terms and conditions.

SECTION 15. Transfer of Franchise. Rocky Mountain Power shall not transfer or assign any
rights under this Franchise to another entity, except transfers and assignments by operation of law,
or to affiliates, parents or subsidiaries of Rocky Mountain Power which assume all of Rocky
Mountain Power’s obligations hereunder, unless the Municipality shall first give its approval in
writing, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed; provided,
however, Rocky Mountain Power may assign, mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise transfer
without consent its interest in this Franchise to any financing entity, or agent on behalf of any
financing entity to whom Rocky Mountain Power (1) has obligations for borrowed money or in
respect of guaranties thereof, (ii) has obligations evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar
instruments, or (iii) has obligations under or with respect to letters of credit, bankers acceptances
and similar facilities or in respect of guaranties thereof.

SECTION 16. Amendment. At any time during the term of this Franchise, the Municipality
through its Municipality Council, or Rocky Mountain Power may propose amendments to this
Franchise by giving thirty (30) days written notice to the other party of the proposed amendment(s)
desired, and both parties thereafter, through their designated representatives, will, within a
reasonable time, negotiate in good faith in an effort to agree upon mutually satisfactory
amendment(s). No amendment or amendments to this Franchise shall be effective until mutually
agreed upon by the Municipality and Rocky Mountain Power and formally adopted as an ordinance
amendment, which is accepted in writing by Rocky Mountain Power.

SECTION 17. Small Power Production and Cogeneration. The Municipality expressly
reserves any right it has to engage in the production or generation of electric energy from
conventional power plants, wind or solar power production facilities, and co-generation facilities
and small power production facilities, in accordance with all applicable laws, rules, regulations
and/or orders of any governmental entity having jurisdiction.

SECTION 18. Breach by Rocky Mountain Power. If Rocky Mountain Power, by act or
omission, materially violates a duty or obligation herein set forth within Rocky Mountain Power’s
control, and with respect to which redress is not otherwise herein provided, and Rocky Mountain
Power fails to remedy the conditions identified in a written notice provided by the Municipality
within six (6) months from the date it receives such notice, then the Municipality and Rocky
Mountain Power shall each. identify-a management-level representative with decision-making =
authority, who shall negotiate in good faith to reach a mutually-agreeable resolution. If the Parties’
representatives are unable to reach a resolution through such negotiations, then the parties shall
submit the matter to non-binding mediation.
SECTION 19. System to Remain in Place. In the event this Franchise is not renewed or
extended, or a new Franchise is not granted, then this Franchise shall be deemed to be temporarily
extended, and (i) Rocky Mountain Power shall not remove any portion of the electrical distribution
system within the Municipality, except as in the ordinary course of business, (ii) Rocky Mountain

6

Power shall provide temporary service and shall be entitled to monetary compensation in the
amounts as provided for in the applicable tariff(s) in effect at that time; and (iii) the parties shall
negotiate and cooperate in good faith regarding the disposition of Rocky Mountain Power’s
facilities and possible sale of the same to the Municipality. Only upon receipt of written notice
from the Municipality that the Municipality has adequate alternative energy supplies to provide
electrical service within the Municipality shall this Franchise terminate, and Rocky Mountain
Power shall thereafter be entitled to remove its facilities that will not be conveyed to the
Municipality.
SECTION 20. Notices. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from Rocky Mountain
Power to the Municipality pursuant to or concerning this Franchise shall be delivered to the
Municipal Recorder's Office. Unless otherwise specified herein, all notices from the Municipality
to Rocky Mountain Power pursuant to or concerning this Franchise shall be delivered to the
Director, Regional Business Management, 1407 W North Temple, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, and
such other office as Rocky Mountain Power may advise the Municipality of by written notice.
SECTION 21. Severability. If any section, sentence, paragraph, term or provision hereof is for
any reason determined to be illegal, invalid, or superseded by other lawful authority including any
state or federal regulatory authority having jurisdiction thereof or unconstitutional, illegal or
invalid by any court of common jurisdiction, such portion shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
independent provision and such determination shall have no effect on the validity of any other
section, sentence, paragraph, term or provision hereof, all of which will remain in full force and
effect for the term of the Franchise or any renewal or renewals thereof.
SECTION 22. Waiver of Jury Trial. To the fullest extent permitted by law, each of the parties
hereto waives any right it may have to a trial by jury in respect of litigation directly or indirectly
arising out of, under or in connection with this agreement. Each party further waives any right to
consolidate any action in which a jury trial has been waived with any other action in which a jury
trial cannot be or has not been waived.
APPROVED and ADOPTED this 15" day of April, 2020.

[execution on follow page — remainder of page left blank]

7

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By: Seance a
Sead QlavtonsMayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
hérrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder Nathafi Bracken, Metro Township Attorney -

VOTING
Council Member Bailey voting Vea
Council Member Clayton voting Vea
Council Member Patrick voting Yeo.
Council Member Pazell voting Yon
Council Member Severson voting La

(Complete as Applicable)

Summary of ordinance published in newspaper on: __

Effective date of ordinance: _

8

SUMMARY OF
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCENO. __ 20-04-01

On the 15™ day of April, 2020, the Copperton Metro Township Council adopted Ordinance
No. _ 20-04-01 granting an electric utility franchise and general utility easement to Rocky
Mountain Power in the Copperton Metro Township, State of Utah, and fixing and prescribing the
conditions and terms thereof.

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
¢ / v4
By tee
Chair/Mayor
ATTEST:
opperton Metro Township Clerk
Council Member Bailey voting Yea
Council Member Clayton voting Yea
Council Member Patrick voting Yea
Council Member Pazell voting Yea
Council Member Severson voting Yea
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 20-04-01 _ is available in the office of the Copperton
Metro Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah
9

ACCEPTANCE OF FRANCHISE

This is to certify that Rocky Mountain Power accepts the franchise for the construction,
operation, and maintenance of a gas distribution system granted by the Copperton Metro
Township, State of Utah, as evidenced by Ordinance No._20-04-01 _ and adopted by the Mayor
and Township Council on April 15, 2020. Rocky Mountain Power accepts the franchise as
approved and agrees that it will be bound by and observe and carry out the terms and conditions
of the franchise.

Rocky Mountain Power designates the following representative to receive and respond to
issues in connection with the franchise:

Rocky Mountain Power
Attn: Director, Regional Business Management
1407 W North Temple Room 320°
Salt Lake City, UT 84116

This Acceptance of Franchise is signed on behalf of the corporation and by authority of a

resolution of its Board of Directors.
d
Dated at Salt Lake City, Utah 22 “day of A pr,/__, 2020.
ROCKY MOUNTAIN POWER
/)
Ayfts Director Teajional Business
Manageme
10
