ORDINANCE NO. 2020-8-01                                    DATE: August 10, 2020

           AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
         UPDATING AND REVISING THE CONDITIONAL USE PROVISIONS OF
                    THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP CODE

                                           RECITALS

       WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-2a-414(3) provides that a Salt Lake County ordinance will
remain in effect as the ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township (“Kearns”) “until the metro
township council amends or repeals the ordinance;” and

       WHEREAS, Title 19 of the Kearns Metro Township Code (the “Code”) governs
conditional use permits filed within Kearns; and

       WHEREAS, because the Salt Lake County originally adopted Title 19 prior to the
incorporation of the Kearns Metro Township, Title 19 as currently constituted is not specific to
Kearns and does not account for the metro township form of municipal government nor does it
account for changes the Utah Legislature made to Utah’s Municipal Land Use Development Act
(“LUDMA”), as found in Chapter 9a of title 10 of the Utah Code regarding conditional use
permits; and

       WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council (the “Council”) desires to amend Title
19 of the Code to account for the metro township form of government and to comply with
LUDMA; and

       WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-602, the Kearns Metro Township Planning
Commission has reviewed and recommended the below revisions to Title 19 and other applicable
portions of the Code after providing notice consistent with Utah Code § 10-9a-205 and holding a
public hearing on August 10, 2020; and

        WHEREAS, the Council has determined that the attached revisions to Title 19 and other
portions of the Code will serve the best interests of the Kearns Metro Township and the general
public.

    NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED BY THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:

1. Section 19.02.010 is amended to read:

       19.02.010 Title for Citation

       This title shall be known as the "Uniform Zoning Ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township,
       Utah," and may be so cited and pleaded. This title shall also be known as Title 19, the
       Kearns Metro Township Code of Ordinances.

                                               1
2. Section 19.02.020 is amended to read:

       19.02.020 Purpose of Provisions

       This title is designed and enacted for the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals,
       conveniences, order, prosperity and welfare of the present and future inhabitants of the
       Kearns Metro Township, including, among other things, the lessening of congestion in the
       streets or roads, securing safety from fire and other dangers, providing adequate light and
       air, classification of land uses and distribution of land development and utilization,
       protection of the tax base, securing economy in governmental expenditures, fostering the
       metro township’s agricultural and other industries, and the protection of both urban and
       nonurban development.

3. Section 19.02.040 is amended to read:

       19.02.040 Resolution of Conflicts

       If a conflict between this title and provisions of covenants, agreements, other ordinances,
       or laws, the more restrictive provision(s) shall apply.

4. Section 19.02.050 is amended to read:

       19.02.050 Effect on Previous Ordinances and Maps

       The existing ordinances of Salt Lake County that the Kearns Metro Township inherited
       upon its incorporation that cover the zoning of areas and districts in the Kearns Metro
       Township, in their entirety and including the maps theretofore adopted and made a part of
       such ordinances, are hereby superseded and amended to read as set forth in this title;
       provided, however that this title, including the maps on file with the planning commission
       and by this reference made a part hereof, shall be deemed a continuation of previous
       ordinances, and not a new enactment, insofar as the substance of revisions of previous
       ordinances is included in this title, whether in the same or in different language; and this
       title shall be so interpreted upon all questions of construction, including but not limited to
       questions of construction, relating to tenure of officers and boards established by previous
       ordinances, and to questions of conforming or nonconforming uses, buildings or
       structures, and to questions as to the dates upon which such uses, buildings or structures
       became conforming or nonconforming.

5. Section 19.02.060 is amended to read:

       19.02.060 Licensing Requirements

       All departments, officials and public employees of the Kearns Metro Township which are
       vested with the duty or authority to issue permits or licenses shall conform to the provisions
       of this title and shall issue no permits or licenses for use, building or purpose where the


                                                 2
       same would be in conflict with the provisions of this title, and any such permit or license,
       if issued in conflict with the provisions of this title, shall be null and void.

6. Section 19.02.080 is amended to read:

       19.02.080 Site Plans Required--Contents

       A detailed site plan, drawn to scale (scale and sheet size to be determined by the director)
       shall be filed as part of any application prior to consideration or for any building permit.
       The requirements in this section 19.02.080 shall be considered the minimum standards for
       an application being considered complete. Notwithstanding the foregoing, compliance
       with additional requirements imposed by other applicable sections, including Chapter
       19.84, shall be required for an application to be considered complete for consideration.
       The site plan shall show, where pertinent:

       A. Note of scale used;

       B. Direction of North point;

       C. Lot lines, together with adjacent streets, roads and rights-of-way;

       D. Location of all existing structures on subject property and adjoining properties
          (completely dimensioned, including utility lines, poles, etc.);

       E. Location of the proposed construction and improvements, including the location of all
          signs;

       F. Motor vehicle access, including individual parking stalls, circulation patterns, curb,
          gutter, and sidewalk location;

       G. Necessary explanatory notes;

       H. Name, address and telephone number of builder and owner; and

       I. All other information that may be required, as determined by the director.

7. Section 19.02.090 is amended to read:

       19.02.090 Building and Use Permits Required

       Construction, alteration, repair or removal of any building or structure, or any part
       thereof, as provided or as restricted in this title, shall not be commenced or proceeded with
       except after the issuance of a written permit for the same by the building official. The use
       of the land shall not be commenced or proceeded with except upon the issuance of a written
       permit for the same by the development services division director or designee. No use
       permit shall be required for land used for agricultural purposes, as defined in this title,
       and/or for the keeping or raising of animals or fowl.

                                                 3
8. Section 19.02.100 is amended to read:

       19.02.100 Compliance Prerequisite to Permit Issuance

       A. No building permit may be issued without first having been approved by the building
          official. The building official shall not approve a building permit if any building,
          structure or use of land would be in violation of any of the provisions of this title, nor
          shall any other township officer grant any permit or license nor the use of any building
          or land if use would be in violation of this title.

       B. Neither the building official nor any other Kearns Metro Township officer shall grant
          any permit, license, or land use approval of any building or land in violation of chapter
          9.25, entitled "Water Source Protection."

9. Section 19.02.130 is amended to read:

       19.02.130 Land Use Applications

       The director of planning and development services ("the director") or the director's
       designee shall be the administrator of the Kearns Metro Township zoning ordinance. In
       order to assure that each proposed land use or proposed amendment to an existing land
       use is handled consistently and fully complies with the provisions of this title, the director
       or director's designee shall administer application and review procedures as outlined
       herein unless specific procedures are otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance.
       Applications shall be diligently prosecuted to completion by the applicant to ensure that
       any action taken to approve or deny an application is based on current information. An
       application shall not be considered complete until all application fees have been paid and
       all required materials have been submitted. The payment of a partial fee and preliminary
       plans for a pre-submittal review does not constitute a complete application. The land use
       application process shall consist of the following:

       A. An application procedure, which shall include:
          1. Submission of an application form, as designed by the director or director's
             designee, which clearly indicates the type and purpose of the application, property
             address, and applicant information;
          2. Submission of a legal description of the property plat, a designated number of site
             plans, building elevations, and mailing labels (if required) for notifications; and
          3. Payment of fees, as required under Title 3, Revenue and Finance.

       B. A review procedure, which may include:
          1. The creation of a planning file by which the applicant, staff, and the public can
              refer to the proposed land use;
          2. An on-site review by the director or director's designee as allowed in Utah Code §
              10- 9a-303;
          3. Review of the submitted site plan and elevations for compliance with the zoning
              ordinance;

                                                 4
          4. Referral of the application and site plans to those government agencies and/or
             affected entities necessary to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public
             and to ensure the project's compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes;

       C. An approval procedure, which shall include:
          1. The integration of the recommendations from the other government agencies and
             affected entities involved in subsection (B)(4) of this section into the final site plan
             and/or elevations;
          2. An approval letter or other written document indicating the approval or denial of
             the application with appropriate conditions as needed to ensure compliance with
             all applicable codes, ordinances, and regulations;
          3. Provision of the approved site plan and approval letter or denial letter to the
             applicant in a timely manner.

10. Section 19.02.140 is amended to read:

       19.02.140 Land Use Hearings and Execution of Land Use Documents

       The Kearns Metro Township Mayor shall preside over and conduct all land use hearings
       before the council. The Chair of the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission shall
       preside over and conduct all land use hearings before the planning commission. The
       mayor pro tem and the vice chair of the planning commission shall preside and conduct
       land use hearings in the absence of the mayor and the chair. The mayor and the director
       shall execute all land use documents on behalf of the Kearns Metro Township has
       specified in this title.

11. Section 19.04.077 is amended to read:

       19.04.077 Bed and Breakfast Homestay

       "Bed and breakfast homestay" means a dwelling which has frontage on a street with a
       minimum right-of- way of sixty feet, contains a maximum of five guestrooms, is occupied
       by the owner or individual responsible for operating the facility, and used for
       accommodations or lodging of guests paying compensation. Breakfast may be served
       during the a.m. hours. Lunch or dinner may not be served. This use shall not change the
       character of the dwelling or property for residential purposes, and shall meet the
       requirements of the health department and the applicable fire department. (The
       requirements of the health department limit breakfast to a continental-type breakfast unless
       certain specified health regulations are met.)

12. Section 19.04.166 is amended to read:

       19.04.166 Director

       "Director" means the director of Kearns Metro Township planning and development
       services.


                                                 5
13. Section 19.04.167 is amended to read:

        19.04.167 Development Services Division

        “Development services division” means the Kearns Metro Township public works,
        planning and development services division.

14. Section 19.04.170 is amended to read:

       19.04.170 District

       "District" means an area coterminous with the boundaries of the Kearns Metro Township.

15. Section 19.04.277 is amended to read:

       19.04.277 Graffiti

       "Graffiti" means inscriptions, drawings, paintings or other visual defacing of buildings,
       structures or natural features, without the consent of the owner thereof, and which is not
       otherwise authorized and permitted in the Kearns Metro Township ordinances.

16. Section 19.04.293 is amended to read:

       19.04.293 Home Day Care/preschool

       "Home day care/preschool" means the keeping for care and/or preschool instruction of
       twelve or less children including the caregiver's own children under the age of six and not
       yet in full day school within an occupied dwelling and yard. (State regulations require two
       caregivers if there are more than six children in a home day care and may further limit the
       number of children allowed in a home day care.) A home day care/preschool must meet
       the following standards:

       A. When allowed as a permitted use caregiver and dwelling use must comply with Utah
          Health Department Regulation R430-50. When allowed as a conditional use caregiver
          and dwelling use must comply with Utah Health Department Regulation R430-50 et
          seq.;

       B. The use shall comply with the health department noise regulations;

       C. The play yard shall not be located in the front yard and shall only be used between
          eight a.m. and nine p.m.;

       D. The lot shall contain one available on-site parking space not required for use of the
          dwelling, and an additional available on-site parking space not required for use of the
          dwelling for any employee not residing in the dwelling. The location of the parking
          shall be approved by the development services division director to ensure that the
          parking is functional and does not change the residential character of the lot;

                                                6
       E. No signs shall be allowed on the dwelling or lot except a nameplate sign;

       F. The use shall comply with all local, state and federal laws and regulations. (The Life
          Safety Code includes additional requirements if there are more than six children);

       G. Upon complaint that any of the requirements of this section or any other municipal
          ordinance are being violated by a home day care/preschool caregiver, the municipality
          shall review the complaint and if substantiated may institute a license revocation
          proceeding under Section 5.14.020; and

       H. The caregiver shall notify in writing, on a form provided by the development services
          division, all property owners within a three hundred foot radius of the caregiver's
          property concerning the licensing of a home day care/preschool at such property.

17. Section 19.04.421 is amended to read:

       19.04.421 Planning Commission

       "Planning commission" means the Kearns Metro Township planning commission.

18. Section 19.04.449 is amended to read:

       19.04.449 Reiki Business

       "Reiki business" means a business devoted primarily to Reiki healing, or any other system
       that has elements of the following. The practitioner, trained to access and serve as a
       channel for a sacred life force, places his or her hands on or just above the client's body
       in order to activate healing energy within receptive points on the body. The practitioner's
       hands move progressively with a passive touch through various positions on the body,
       remaining in each position for a period of time. As a harmonic flow of energy is
       strengthened, within the client and practitioner, healing occurs through the return of
       physical, mental and spiritual balance. For purposes of this title, a Reiki business shall not
       include Reiki healing, or similar system, which are performed in a hospital or medical
       clinic.

19. Section 19.05.040 is amended to read:

       19.05.040 Powers and Duties

       The planning commission shall:

       A. Prepare and recommend a general plan and any amendments to the general plan to
          the Kearns Metro Township Council;

       B. Recommend zoning ordinances and maps and amendments to zoning ordinances and
          maps to the Kearns Metro Township Council;

                                                 7
       C. Recommend subdivision ordinances and amendments to those ordinances to the Kearns
          Metro Township Council;

       D. Recommend the approval or denial of subdivision applications to the Kearns Metro
          Township Council;

       E. Approve or deny conditional use permits;

       F. Advise the Kearns Metro Township Council on matters that the Council directs;

       G. Hold public hearings as appropriate or required under the Kearns Metro Township
          Code or other applicable laws; and

       H. Provide other functions as specified in this chapter or as directed by the Kearns Metro
          Township Council, the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act (Utah
          Code Annotated Title 10, Chapter 9a), and other applicable laws.

20. Section 19.06.030 is amended to read:

       19.06.030 Filing of This Title and Zoning Maps

       This title and the maps shall be filed in the custody of the Kearns Metro Township clerk,
       and may be examined by the public subject to any reasonable regulations established by
       the clerk.

21. Section 19.76.010 is amended to read:

       19.76.010 Effect of Chapter Provisions

       The regulations hereinafter set forth in this chapter qualify or supplement, as the case may
       be, the zone regulations appearing elsewhere in this title. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
       nothing in this chapter shall be construed as to reduce the standards, requirements, or
       obligations imposed elsewhere in the Kearns Metro Township code.

22. Section 19.76.210 is amended to read:

       19.76.210 Off-Site Improvements

       A. Off-Site Improvements Required. The applicant for a building or conditional use permit
          for all dwellings, commercial or industrial uses, and all other business and public and
          quasi-public uses shall provide curb, gutter and sidewalk along the entire property line
          which abuts any public road or street in cases where it does not exist at metro township
          standards. Vehicular entrances to the property shall be provided as required in Section
          14.12.110. Height, location, structural specifications, maximum and minimum cut radii
          and minimum roadway approach angles to the centerline of the street are subject to
          the approval of the agency concerned.

                                                8
       B. Fee in Lieu of Improvements.
          1. Where conditions exist which make it unfeasible or impractical to install such curb,
             gutter and sidewalk, the planning commission may require the applicant to pay to
             the metro township a fee equal to the estimated cost of such improvements, as
             determined by the director of development services. Upon payment of such fee by
             the developer, the metro township shall assume the responsibility for future
             installation of such improvements.
          2. The auditor shall place such fees in the special account established in Section
             18.24.190 of this code, and shall credit to such account a proportioned share of
             interest earned from investment of metro township moneys. Records relating to
             identification of properties for which fees have been collected, fee amounts
             collected for such properties, and money transfer requests shall be the
             responsibility of the development services division.

       C. Exceptions.
          1. The planning commission may grant exception to installation of the sidewalk in
             industrial areas where the planning commission determines that the sidewalk is not
             necessary to serve the public need, and the elimination of the sidewalk does not
             jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare, provided that the respective
             application includes a request for exception consistent with the provisions of
             chapter 84 of this title.
          2. The planning commission may grant exception to installation of curb, gutter and
             sidewalk in rural or estate areas where topographic or other exceptional conditions
             exist, provided that the public health, safety and welfare is preserved, provided that
             the respective application includes a request for exception consistent with the
             provisions of chapter 84 of this title.

23. Section 19.78.020 is amended to read:

       19.78.020 Applicability and Area Requirements

       A planned unit development is a conditional use that is only allowed for residential uses,
       except as provided in Section 19.78.040, and in zones that allow residential uses and the
       provisions in chapter 84 of this title apply to applications for planned unit development.
       The provisions in this chapter shall govern over the chapters relating to these other zones
       and other chapters in this title, with the exception of the FCOZ ordinance, Chapters 19.72
       and 19.73, and the RCOZ ordinance, Chapter 19.71. A planned unit development in these
       zones shall have a minimum area of three acres, with the following exceptions:

       A. Existing condominium developments that cannot be sold or refinanced without the
          common area adjoining the homes in the development being divided up into individual
          lots that include the adjoining homes, and where these newly created lots would not
          qualify as traditional subdivision lots under metro township ordinance. In such cases,
          the newly created lots may qualify as a planned unit development if the development is
          at least one acre in size. Such a development shall be exempt from the provisions of


                                                9
           this chapter, except Sections 19.78.090—19.78.130 relating to review of the
           development.

      B.   Developments abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan shall
           have a minimum area of one acre. To qualify as a development that is abutting or
           contiguous to a corridor, said development shall have a minimum frontage of the sum
           of the required minimum lot width of two lots as determined by the current zoning
           designation.

24. Section 19.78.060 is amended to read:

       19.78.060 Review Process

       A. Pre-Submittal Development Review. To help expedite review of a development
          proposal, prior to submitting a complete application for development, persons
          interested in undertaking development shall meet with a member(s) of the planning
          staff for a planner/applicant meeting, to become acquainted with the substantive and
          procedural requirements of this chapter.

       B. Standard Operating Procedure (SOP). Staff creates, revises, and adheres to a
          development review standard operating procedure, to assist in the management and
          processing of applications. Applicants are encouraged to obtain a copy of the current
          SOP from planning and development services staff, and to seek guidance with respect
          to the review and understanding of the development review SOP from staff.

       C. Application. A complete application for a development must be submitted to planning
          and development services at least thirty (30) days in advance of consideration of the
          application by the planning commission, consistent with chapter 84 of this title. As each
          development application is different and unique, application documents may vary with
          respect to content and need for specific reports and/or studies. Consultation with staff
          and examination of the development review SOP will guide the applicant through the
          review process and identify all submittal documents that will be required to formalize
          a complete application.

           1. Site plan that satisfies the requirements of Section 19.78.030(11), Section
              19.02.080, and chapter 84 of this title. Any inconsistencies in the site plan
              documents with the requirements on these sections, or requests for exception to
              such requirements shall be addressed in writing with the application.
           2. Landscaping plan. A landscape plan is to be prepared in accordance with Chapter
              19.77 of this title. Staff can ask for justification of elements included in the
              landscape plan.
           3. Architectural building elevations. The location and floor area of all existing and
              proposed buildings, structures, and other improvements including heights, types of
              dwelling units, non-residential structures including commercial facilities,
              preliminary elevations and architectural renderings of typical structures and
              improvements, shall be prepared by a licensed architect or other qualified
              professional.

                                               10
          4. Lighting plan.
          5. Subdivision plat.

25. Section 19.78.070 is amended to read:

       19.78.070 Preliminary Review

       When a complete application has been accepted by staff, reviews completed by staff and
       related agencies, and subsequent comments identified by staff and substantially addressed
       by the applicant, the application is scheduled for a public hearing before the planning
       commission for its review and decision consistent with the processes identified in chapter
       84 of this title. Additional adjustments, revisions, or re-submittals may be required during
       this process to identify all concerns related to conformance with the intent of this chapter.
       Failure to submit complete and consistent information will result in written notification to
       the applicant that the review cannot proceed further until all required, necessary, and
       requested information is submitted.

26. Section 19.78.080 is amended to read:

       19.78.080 Planning Commission Review

       When preliminary review of the application has been determined to be complete and in
       compliance with all requirements, the plans and preliminary plat together with all
       supporting information will be forwarded to the planning commission for review. If the
       property is to be subdivided, all requirements set forth in Title 18, Subdivisions, must be
       met.

       In accordance with Chapter 19.05.040 and Utah Code § 10-9a-507, the planning
       commission shall review the proposed development plan to hear and receive public input
       and to determine if all reasonably anticipated detrimental effects have been substantially
       mitigated. The planning commission may require additional studies or analyses to enable
       it to determine how impacts should be addressed and may establish reasonable conditions
       of approval to address those anticipated impacts, as per Chapter 19.84.060.

27. Section 19.78.090 is amended to read:

   19.78.090 Validity of Preliminary Review

       A. Once the planning commission determines that preliminary review is complete, the
          preliminary plat or approved site plan is valid (twelve months for the preliminary plat
          and twelve months for the site plan). The division director may grant a one-year
          extension of the preliminary plat or approved site plan, provided the plat still complies
          with all applicable ordinances.

       B. If a PUD subdivision will be recorded in phases, a final plat for the first phase must be
          recorded within one year of the initial planning commission approval or one-year
          extension thereof, the validity of the unrecorded portions of the approved preliminary

                                                11
          plat will extend for one year from the recording date of the plat for the previous phase.
          Extensions of time beyond three years from the date of initial approval require review
          and approval of the planning commission prior to the then current expiration of the
          preliminary plat.

28. Section 19.78.100 is amended to read:

       19.78.100 Post-Planning Commission Approval

       After completing the preliminary review by the departments, agencies, and planning
       commission, the applicant shall submit a final site plan and preliminary and final
       subdivision plats together with all supporting documents which comply with all
       requirements, corrections, additions, etc. required by the departments, agencies, and
       planning commission to the planning and development services division (hereinafter
       known as the "development plan").

       A. The planning and development services division, along with the other reviewing
          departments and agencies, shall review the proposed development plan to verify
          compliance with all requirements, corrections, additions, etc.

       B. After such review, the item may be scheduled for review by the planning commission
          upon referral by the division director, for any reason, or at the request of the planning
          commission. The final development plan shall include all of the information required
          in the preliminary development plan in its finalized detailed form.

       C. Notwithstanding the foregoing, only the planning commission may approve a proposed
          final site plan which includes any changes to the preliminary site plan that involve: (i)
          increasing the number of units, or structures; (ii) changes to the overall density of the
          project or any areas within the project; (iii) revisions to structure heights, locations,
          or purposes; or (iv) plans for required improvements required by this title or title 18 of
          the Kearns Metro Township Code.

29. Section 19.78.110 is amended to read:

       19.78.110 Amendments to The Development Plan

       The division director or designee may authorize minor changes in the location, siting, or
       character of buildings and structures if required to resolve an engineering or other
       technical issue, or other circumstances not identified at the time the final development plan
       was approved. No change authorized under this section may cause any of the following
       ("major changes"):

       A. A change in the use and/or character of the development.

       B. An increase in the overall density and/or intensity of use for any portion of the project.

       C. Any increase in overall coverage of structures.

                                                12
       D. A reduction or change in character of approved open space.

       E. A reduction of required off-street parking.

       F. Any alteration to the pedestrian, vehicular, bicycle, circulation, or utility networks.

       G. A reduction in required street pavement widths.

       H. Any increase in building height.

       I. Any decrease in building setback.

       Any major changes must be proposed to the planning commission after receipt of a
       recommendation by planning staff consistent with chapter 84 of this title. Proposals under
       items A. through I. above require the filing of a new application.

       Any major changes must be recorded as amendments in accordance with the procedure
       established for adopting the final development plan.

30. Section 19.80.090 is amended to read:

       19.80.090 Planning Commission Exceptions

       Upon a finding by the planning commission that a proposed site plan is in harmony with
       the general plan of the community in which it is located and that effective tools have been
       employed in the creation of a transit oriented development, community re-development
       project, or walkable community project, the planning commission may reduce the number
       of required parking stalls for any proposed development, provided that a written request
       for such exception accompanies the application in accordance with the process identified
       in chapter 84 of this title. In approving any such reduction, the planning commission may
       use such tools as: recommendations from the planning and development services staff a
       site-specific traffic study conducted by a qualified engineering firm, American Planning
       Association guidelines, Envision Utah guidelines, and/or Urban Land Institute guidelines.

31. Chapter 19.84 (Conditional Uses) is repealed in its entirety and replaced as follows:

       19.84.010 Purpose

       The purpose of this chapter is to provide for a reasonable application, review, and
       approval process for land uses that are specified as "conditional," such that: (i)
       proposed new land uses meet Kearns Metro Township standards and are properly
       integrated into the community; and (ii) that those that appear to violate Kearns
       Metro Township standards are effectively mitigated or prohibited. Conditional uses
       shall be approved on a case-by-case basis if the planning commission can impose
       reasonable conditions to mitigate the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of
       the proposed use in accordance with applicable standards in accordance with

                                                13
applicable Utah law.

19.84.020 Conditional Use Permit Required

A conditional use permit shall be required for all uses listed as conditional uses in
the Kearns Metro Township Code.

19.84.030 Application Requirements--Fee

Only when the following elements are satisfied is a conditional use application
deemed complete:

A. An application for a conditional use permit has been made by the property
   owner or certified agent thereof in writing upon the form(s) designated by the
   director or director's designee;

B. All required documents and fully completed forms have been submitted to the
   director, the director’s designee, or staff, including but not limited to detailed
   site plans and specifications drawn to scale, meeting at least the minimum
   requirements identified in section 19.02.080 of the Kearns Metro Township
   Code, unless waived by the director or director's designee; and

C. The initial application fee for any conditional use permit, as provided for in the
   Kearns Metro Township Code has been paid, provided that the payment of a
   partial application fee, or the submittal of plans for a pre-submittal review,
   does not constitute a complete application.

19.84.040 Application Review

A. After the director or the director's designee has determined that a conditional
   use application is complete pursuant to Section 19.84.030, the director or
   director’s designee shall administer an application review procedure in which
   the proposed use and the proposed site development plan are evaluated for
   compliance with all applicable ordinances and codes and for anticipated
   detrimental effects.

B. The application review procedure shall contain the following components:

   1. Referral of the application to all affected entities;
   2. A review of the proposed site plan for compliance with applicable sections
      of the zoning ordinance, the general plan, and other applicable provisions
      of the Kearns Metro Township Code; and
   3. A review of the proposed use and site plan to ascertain potential negative
      impacts and whether reasonable conditions can be imposed to mitigate
      those impacts.

C. The application review procedure may include the following:
                                         14
   1. Referral of the application to government or regulating entities, including
      other applicable Kearns Metro Township staff for recommendations;
   2. A pre-application meeting, in which preliminary site plans are reviewed
      and discussed prior to finished plans being submitted for review;
   3. An on-site review of the proposal by the director, director's designee or
      staff;
   4. A requirement that the applicant submit impact studies or other technical
      studies regarding grading, drainage, traffic, geologic hazards, etc.; and

D. The director or the director's designee shall present a review, summary and
   recommendation to the planning commission after having provided the
   applicant with a copy as required by state law and such recommendation shall
   remain part of the public record.

19.84.050 Approval/Denial Authority

The planning commission is the land use authority for conditional uses and has the
authority to approve, deny, or approve with conditions conditional use
applications. The planning commission shall not consider a conditional use
application at a meeting if the application and the information required under this
chapter and any other applicable sections of the Kearns Metro Township Code,
including without limitation chapters 19.02 and 19.78, were not submitted at least
30 days prior to the date of the public meeting.

A. Planning Commission Approval.

   1. The planning commission shall review and approve or deny each
      application during a public meeting.
   2. The planning commission's decision shall be based on information
      presented through the public meeting process, including: the materials
      submitted by the applicant, the recommendation of the director or director's
      designee, and input from interested parties and affected entities.
   3. If conditions are specified, the director or director's designee shall issue a
      final approval letter upon satisfaction of the planning commission's
      conditions of approval.
   4. If the applicant fails to meet all conditions of approval within twelve months
      of the planning commission's decision, the application is deemed denied. A
      twelve-month extension may be granted upon the payment of an additional
      filing fee equal to the original filing fee.
   5. The planning commission shall make a decision on a complete conditional
      use application within a reasonable time frame, not to exceed ninety days
      of the date the application is deemed complete unless the director or the
      director’s designee issues a written determination to the applicant
      explaining why additional time is needed to review the application. The
      planning commission is authorized to review and take action on an


                                        15
        application as outlined in Section 19.84.040 after having notified the
        applicant of the meeting date.
     6. Failure by the applicant to provide information that has been requested by
        the planning commission, the director or director's designee to resolve
        conflicts with the standards in Section 19.84.060 (above) may result in an
        application being denied.
     7. The planning commission’s authority to approve a conditional use
        application is limited to the information included in the complete
        conditional use application that the director, the director’s designee, or
        staff have reviewed pursuant to this chapter. The planning commission shall
        not approve any modifications, alterations, or deviations that an applicant
        may propose to a complete conditional use application that the director, the
        director’s designee, or the staff have not reviewed pursuant to this chapter.
        The director may grant exceptions to this requirement if the director
        determines in writing that the modification, alteration, or deviation is minor
        or immaterial, provided that the director may not grant exceptions to this
        requirement that involve the construction, modification, or relocation of
        any buildings, site plans, roadways, public thoroughfares, or changes in
        open space.

B.      Each conditional use application shall be:

     1. Approved if the proposed use, including the manner and design in which a
        property is proposed for development, complies with the standards for
        approval outlined in Section 19.84.060; or
     2. Approved if the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the use,
        including but not limited to the manner and design in which the property is
        proposed for development, can be mitigated with the imposition of
        reasonable conditions to bring about compliance with the standards
        outlined in Section 19.84.060, provided that the reasonably anticipated
        detrimental effects need not be eliminated; or
     3. Denied if the reasonably anticipated detrimental effects of the proposed use
        cannot be mitigated with the imposition of reasonable conditions of
        approval to bring about compliance with the standards outlined in Section
        19.84.060.

19.84.060 Standards for Approval

Prior to approval, all conditional uses and accompanying site development plans
must be found to conform to the following standards:

A. The proposed site development plan shall comply with all applicable provisions
   of the zoning ordinance, including parking, building setbacks, and building
   height.




                                          16
B. The proposed use and site development plan shall comply with all other
   applicable laws and ordinances, including but not limited to the general plan.

C. The proposed use and site development plan shall not present a serious traffic
   hazard due to poor site design or to anticipated traffic increases on the nearby
   road system which exceed the amounts called for under the Kearns Metro
   Township transportation master plan.

D. The proposed use and site development plan shall not pose a serious threat to
   the safety of persons who will work on, reside on, or visit the property nor pose
   a serious threat to the safety of residents or properties in the vicinity by failure
   to adequately address the following issues: fire safety, geologic hazards, soil
   or slope conditions, liquefaction potential, site grading/topography, storm
   drainage/flood control, high ground water, environmental health hazards, or
   wetlands.

E. The proposed use and site development plan shall not adversely impact
   properties in the vicinity of the site through lack of compatibility with nearby
   buildings in terms of size, scale, height, or noncompliance with community
   general plan standards.

19.84.075 Graffiti Preventative Materials or Design

A. Whenever the planning commission determines that there is a reasonable
   likelihood that graffiti will be placed on the surfaces of proposed improvements
   it shall require, as part of the conditional use approval, that the applicant apply
   an anti-graffiti material, approved by the development services division, to each
   of the surfaces to be constructed. The anti-graffiti material shall be used on
   surfaces from ground level to a height of nine feet. The planning commission
   may approve dense planting or appropriate design measures in place of anti-
   graffiti materials.

B. Whenever the planning commission becomes aware of graffiti having been
   placed on any surfaces constructed as part of development approved as a
   conditional use, it may require that the applicant or his/her successor in interest
   apply an anti-graffiti material to such surfaces where no such material was
   previously required.

19.84.080 Appeals

Any adversely affected person shall have the right to appeal to the land use hearing
officer any decision rendered by the planning commission, the director or director's
designee by filing in writing, stating the reasons for the appeal with the land use
hearing officer, within ten days following the date upon which the decision is made.
Appeals to the land use hearing officer shall comply with the following procedures:



                                          17
A. Upon scheduling a hearing date, the land use hearing officer shall notify the
   director or the director’s designee at least two weeks prior to the hearing to
   allow preparation of the record.

B. The director or the director’s designee shall prepare a copy of the record of the
   proceedings and decision being appealed for presentation to the land use
   hearing officer.

C. The hearing officer shall review the record, and may not accept or consider any
   evidence outside the record unless the evidence was offered to and was
   excluded by the planning commission, the director or director's designee and
   the hearing officer determines that it was improperly excluded.
D. The land use hearing officer shall review the planning commission's or the
   development services division's actions to determine whether the decision was
   arbitrary, capricious, or illegal.

E. The filing of an appeal does not automatically stay the decision; however, the
   land use hearing officer has the authority to stay the decision while the appeal
   is pending.

F. After review of the record and written and oral argument on both sides, the
   hearing officer may affirm, reverse, alter, or remand to the planning
   commission, the director or director's designee for further review and
   consideration the action taken by the planning commission, the director or
   director's designee.

19.84.095 Preliminary and Final Approval of Conditional Use Applications

A. Unless otherwise designated, a decision approving a conditional use
   application shall be a preliminary approval of the application.

B. Except as specified in subsection C and D of this section, the director is
   authorized to grant final approval of conditional use applications after all of
   the conditions and requirements of the preliminary approval which are
   necessary for the final approval have been met. Final approval of a conditional
   use application shall be in the form of a letter to the applicant which, together
   with the approved site plan if required, shall constitute the conditional use
   permit. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the director or the director’s designee
   may, for any reason, request that the planning commission review and grant
   final approval of a conditional use application.

C. The planning commission may require as a condition of preliminary approval
   that a conditional use application be brought before the planning commission
   for consideration of final approval.

D. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the planning commission must approve changes
   to a conditional use application that has received preliminary approval if the

                                        18
   changes: (i) modify the number or size of units or structures; (ii) modify the
   overall density or intensity of the project or any areas within the project; (iii)
   revise structure heights, locations, or use or purpose, including open space
   areas; (iv) modify plans for required improvements required by this title or title
   18 of the Kearns Metro Township Code; (v) reduce required off-street parking;
   or (vi) modify building setbacks.

19.84.100 Revocation of Conditional Use Permits

A conditional use permit may be revoked by the planning commission upon a
finding of failure to comply with the terms and conditions of the original permit or
for any violation of this title occurring on the site for which the permit was
approved. Prior to taking action concerning revocation of a conditional use permit,
a hearing shall be held by the planning commission. Notice of the hearing and the
grounds for consideration of revocation shall be mailed to the permittee at least
ten days prior to the hearing.

19.84.110 Hearing Officer

The director or the director’s designee may make recommendations to the planning
commission as to whether cause exists for the planning commission to recommend
revoking a conditional use permit. If the planning commission recommends that a
conditional use permit should be revoked, the Kearns Metro Township hearing
officer shall conduct an evidentiary hearing pursuant to Chapter 1.16 of the Kearns
Metro Township Code to consider the planning commission’s recommendation and
to determine whether the permittee has failed to comply with the terms and
conditions of the original permit or has otherwise violated any provision of the
zoning ordinance occurring on the site for which the permit was approved. The
hearing officer shall notify the planning commission if any violations have been
corrected by the permittee prior to the issuance of the hearing officer's
recommendations.

19.84.120 Inspection

Following the issuance of a conditional use permit by the planning commission the
building official shall approve an application for a building permit pursuant to
Chapter 19.94 of this title and shall ensure that development is undertaken and
completed in compliance with the permits.


19.84.130 Temporary Emergency Waivers

The director may grant a thirty-day temporary waiver to a condition in an approved
conditional use permit upon receipt of a written request from the permit holder if
the director determines in writing that compliance with the condition poses an
imminent threat to public safety, public health, or property. The Kearns Metro


                                        19
       Township mayor may extend a temporary waiver for an additional thirty days,
       provided that such extension shall be in writing and the mayor may only extend a
       temporary waiver twice. Planning commission approval is needed for any
       temporary waiver to extend beyond ninety days. The director or the director’s
       designee shall ensure that all written determinations made under this subsection
       are maintained as part of the file of the conditional use.

32. Section 19.90.010 is amended to read:

       19.90.010 Amendment Procedure

       The Kearns Metro Township Council may amend the number, shape, boundaries or area
       of any zone or any regulation within any zone. Any such amendment shall not be made or
       become effective unless the same shall have been proposed by or be first submitted for the
       recommendation of the relevant planning commission.

33. Section 19.90.020 is amended to read:

       19.90.020 Hearing--Notice

       Before finally adopting any such amendment, the Kearns Metro Township Council shall
       consider the application during a public meeting which has been properly noticed in
       compliance with the provisions of Title 52, Chapter 4, of the Open and Public Meetings
       Act.

34. Section 19.90.030 is amended to read as follows:

       19.90.030 Determination of Council

       The Kearns Metro Township Council, after review of the recommendation of the planning
       commission, may approve, deny, alter or remand for further review and consideration any
       application for zone change referred to the council by the planning commission, with the
       requirements of the standards, rules and regulations adopted by the council.

35. Section 19.90.050 is amended to read:

       19.90.050 Disapproval of Rezone Application

       Disapproval of an application to amend the zoning map shall preclude the filing of another
       application to amend the zoning map to reclassify the same parcel of property, or any
       portion thereof to the same zone classification or if the application is for a commercial
       classification to the same or any other commercial classification, within one year of the
       date of the final disapproval of the application unless the Kearns Metro Township Council
       finds that there has been a substantial change in the circumstances or sufficient new
       evidence since the disapproval of the application to merit consideration of a second
       application within the one- year time period.


                                               20
36. Section 19.90.070 is amended to read:

       19.60.070 Application to Amend the General Plan

       Subject to the restrictions in Sections 19.90.080 and 19.90.090, any property owner or
       authorized agent thereof may file an application requesting an amendment to the Kearns
       Metro Township general plan. Such application shall include the reasons or basis upon
       which the property owner believes the Kearns Metro Township general plan should be
       amended. Amendments to the Kearns Metro Township general plan shall comply with the
       procedures set forth in Chapter 9a of Title 10 of the state code.

37. Section 19.90.080 is amended to read:

       19.90.080 Restriction on Applications After Adoption of General Plan

       No application may be filed by any property owner or authorized agent thereof to amend
       any part of the Kearns Metro Township general plan for a period of one year after adoption
       of such part of the Kearns Metro Township general plan by the Kearns Metro Township
       Council.

38. Section 19.90.090 is amended to read:

       19.90.090 Disapproval of General Plan Application

       Disapproval of an application to amend the Kearns Metro Township general plan shall
       preclude the filing of another application to amend the general plan text in the same or
       similar manner or to amend the general plan map for any parcel of property or portion
       thereof to the same land use designation within two years of the date of the final
       disapproval of the application unless the planning commission finds that there has been a
       substantial change in the circumstances or other significant reasons since the disapproval
       of the application to merit consideration of a second application within the two-year time
       period. No appeal to the Kearns Metro Township Council may be taken from a planning
       commission decision rendered pursuant to this section.

39. This ordinance will become effective 20 days after publication pursuant to Utah Code Ann.
    § 10-3-711(1) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.

                                    [signatures on following page]




                                               21
      APPROVED and ADOPTED this 10th day of August, 2020.

                                              KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                              By: ________________________________
                                                  Kelly Bush, Mayor


ATTEST                                         APPROVED AS TO FORM:




_______________________________                __________________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder                METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY




VOTING

Council Member Bush voting             Yea
Council Member Butterfield voting      Yea
Council Member Peterson voting         Yea
Council Member Schaeffer voting        Yea
Council Member Snow voting             Yea



 (Complete as Applicable)

                                              Tribune
 Summary of ordinance published in newspaper: _____________________

                        08/13/2020
 Date of publication: ____________________________________________

                                08/10/2020
 Effective date of ordinance: _____________________________________




                                         22
                                       SUMMARY OF

             KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. 2020-08-01


       On the 10th day of August, 2020, the Kearns Metro Township Council adopted Ordinance

No. 2020-08-01, revising Title 19 and other applicable provisions of the Kearns Metro Township

Code regarding the approval and regulation of conditional use permits and to make other updates

needed to update the Code to reflect the metro township form of municipal government.


                                                   KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL



                                                   By: ________________________________
                                                       Kelly Bush, Mayor



ATTEST                                             APPROVED AS TO FORM:



_______________________________                    ___________________________________
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk                             METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

VOTING

Council Member Bush voting                 Yea
Council Member Butterfield voting          Yea
Council Member Peterson voting             Yea
Council Member Schaeffer voting            Yea
Council Member Snow voting                 Yea

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2020-08-01 is available in the office of the Kearns Metro
Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.




                                              23
