COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ORDINANCE # 20-06-01
May 16, 2018
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING REQUIREMENTS FOR DRIVEWAYS WITHIN THE
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Copperton Metro Township Council (the
“Council’”) met in a regular public meeting on May 16, 2018.
WITNESS

A. WHEREAS, the Copperton Metro Township (“Copperton”) was established to
give the residents of Copperton greater control over the affairs of their community, including but
not limited to the regulation of buildings and other structures within Copperton; and

B. WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. §10-2a-414(3) provides that the ordinances of Salt

Lake County (“County”) will remain in effect until the “metro township council amends or repeals
the ordinance;” and

C. WHEREAS, since its incorporation, Copperton has followed the County’s
ordinances regarding the construction, placement, and use of driveways along with other building
requirements, including Title 14 of the County Code regarding highways, sidewalks, and public
places; and

D. WHEREAS, the County’s driveway ordinances do not account for the unique
nature of Copperton, including the prevalence of shared driveways within Copperton and many
long-existing driveways that do not comply with the County’s driveway ordinances;

E. WHEREAS, the Council desires to adopt a Copperton-specific ordinance to
regulate driveways within the metro township that continues to utilize Title 14 of the County Code
regarding the highways, sidewalks, and public places but better accounts for the needs and
circumstances of Copperton’s residents with respect to driveways; and

F. WHEREAS, the Council has prepared the regulations attached to this ordinance to
govern the construction and placement of driveways within Copperton; and

G. WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the attached regulations, determined that
they are in the best interests of Copperton and its residents, and desires to adopt them.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL THAT:
1. Title 14.12.110 of the Salt Lake County Code regarding the regulation of driveways is
repealed as applied to the Copperton Metro Township pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §10-
Ordinance #2018-__- Page 1 of 5
-

2a-414(3); and
2. The attached regulations regarding the construction and placement of driveways are
adopted effective immediately; and
3. Any prior ordinance, rule, or regulation adopted by the Council regarding driveways is
repealed and superseded by the attached regulations.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah this
_17thday of __ June , 2018.
Sean Clayton, Mayor
ATTEST:
Sherrie Dh
Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Bailey voting Absent
Council Member and Mayor Clayton Aye
voting Council Member Patrick voting Aye
Council Member Pazell voting Aye
Council Member Severson voting Aye
Ordinance # 2018-___—- Page 2 of 5

Title 5 — Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places

Chapter 5.01 - APPLICATION

This Title will govern the regulation of highways, sidewalks, and public places within the
Copperton Metro Township. In the absence of an applicable regulation in this Title, the provisions
of Title 14 of the Salt Lake County Code will govern pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §10-2a-414(3).
In the event of a conflict between Title 14 of the Salt Lake County Code and this Title, the
provisions of this Title will control.

Chapter 5.02 -DRIVEWAYS

5.02.010 — Definitions

For the purposes of this Chapter, the following words will have the following meanings:
“Engineering Division” means the Salt Lake County Public Works Engineering Division, which
has contracted with the Copperton Metro Township to provide the services set forth in this Chapter.
“Planning and Development Services Director’ means the Salt Lake County Planning and
Development Services Director, who has contracted with the Copperton Metro Township to
provide the services set forth in this Chapter.

5.02.020 — Frontage.

All property shall be limited to the following number of street driveway entrances:

1. For the first two hundred feet of property frontage along a street, a maximum of two
driveways. Single-family dwellings on corner lots may be permitted one access on each
street frontage if approved by the engineering division and planning and development
services director upon a finding that no significant impacts will result.

2. For each additional one hundred fifty feet of property frontage along a street, a
maximum of one additional driveway may be permitted, if approved by the engineering
division and planning and development services director upon a finding that no
significant safety impacts will result. In no case shall more than fifty percent of the
property frontage along the street be used for driveway purposes.

5.02.030 — Grades.

All driveway grades shall not exceed ten percent within twenty feet of the roadway boundary,

except where unusual topographical, aesthetic or other exceptional conditions exist, in which case

a driveway grade not to exceed fifteen percent within twenty feet of the roadway boundary may

be approved by the engineering division for reconstruction and reconnection on Copperton Metro

Township projects and by the planning and development services director for other development,
Ordinance # 2018-____ Page 3 of 5

provided that the exception to the ten percent grade requirements is not detrimental to public safety
or the public welfare.

5.02.040 — Minimum Distances Between Driveways.

There shall be a minimum ten feet distance between all approved driveways. An exception to this
requirement may be approved by the engineering division for reconstruction and reconnection on
Copperton Metro Township projects and by the planning and development services director for
other development, provided that the exception to these minimum distance requirements is not
detrimental to public safety or the public welfare. Provided further, that if the public right-of-way
has been vacated, then the distance can be reduced to no less than twice the vacated distance.
5.02.050 — Minimum Distance from Property Line

Driveways shall be a minimum of five feet from a side property line at the front lot line. An
exception to this requirement may be approved by the engineering division for reconstruction and
reconnection on Copperton Metro Township projects and by the planning and development
services director for other development, provided that the exception to these minimum distance
requirements is not detrimental to public safety or to the public welfare. Provided further, that if
the public right-of-way has been vacated, then the distance can be reduced to no less than twice
the vacated distance.

5.02.060 — Additional Requirements for Residential Driveways

1. The minimum street driveway width at the property line for a residential driveway

shall be ten feet and the maximum shall be thirty-five feet.

2. There shall be a minimum of thirty-five feet between the entrances of circular
driveways.

3. A minimum four-foot radius or flared section shall be used.

4. No radius or flare portion of a driveway shall intersect the adjacent projected property
line except where shared driveways are utilized.

5. On corner lots, driveways shall be set back a minimum of twenty feet from the point of
intersection of the right-of-way-lines.

5.02.070 — Additional Requirements for Commercial, Industrial, and Multi-F amily Driveways:

1. Oncorner lots, driveways shall be set back a minimum of sixty feet from the projected
intersection right-of-way lines with a minimum five foot flared section. Flared
driveways are required for distinction from intersection corners.

Ordinance #2018-_- Page 4 of 5

2. The minimum width of a driveway shall be twelve feet and the maximum shall be fifty
feet.
5.02.080 — Prospective Effect of Ordinance
This Chapter will apply to driveway construction and placement after the date of the approval of
this Chapter on May 16, 2018. It will not apply retroactively to the construction and placement of
driveways that took place prior to May 16, 2018.
Ordinance # 2018-___- Page Sof 5

*
