COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ORDINANCE # 2020-06-01
June 17, 2020
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING REQUIREMENTS FOR DRIVEWAYS WITHIN THE
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Copperton Metro Township Council (the
“Council”) met in a regular public meeting on June 17, 2020.
WITNESS

WHEREAS, the Copperton Metro Township Council (“Council) adopted Ordinance #18-
05-03 on May 16, 2018, which enacted new standards for driveways; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to update and renumber the title and chapter headings of
the driveway standards adopted in #Ordinance #1 8-05-03 to coincide better with the structure and
numbering of the Copperton Metro Township Code.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL THAT:

1. Section 14.12.110 of the Copperton Metro Township Code regarding the regulation
of driveways is repealed in its entirety and replaced with the attached regulations.

ve Any provision of the Copperton Metro Township Code found to be in conflict with
this ordinance is hereby repealed.

3. This ordinance will go into effect immediately after its posting pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. § 10-3-711(1)(b)(ii) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah this
17" day of June, 2020.

[execution on following page]

Sean Ch yton, Mayor
(
ATTEST:
Sherrie Swensen
Copperton Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Bailey voting Yea
Council Member Clayton voting Yea
Council Member Pazell voting Yea
Council Member Severson voting Yea
Council Member Stitzer voting Yea

14.12.110 — Driveways

A. For the purposes of this Section, the following words will have the following meanings:

1. “Engineering Division” means the Copperton Metro Township Engineering Division.

2. “Director” means Copperton Metro Township Planning and Development Services
Director.

B. All property will be limited to the following number of driveway entrances from a street:
1. For the first two hundred feet of property frontage along a street, a maximum of two

driveways. Single-family dwellings on corner lots may be permitted one access on each
street frontage if approved by the director upon a finding that no significant impacts
will result.

2. For each additional one hundred fifty feet of property frontage along a street, a
maximum of one additional driveway may be permitted, if approved by the engineering
division and director upon a finding that no significant safety impacts will result. In no
case will more than fifty percent of the property frontage along the street be used for
driveway purposes.

C. All driveway grades will not exceed ten percent within twenty feet of the roadway
boundary, except where unusual topographical, aesthetic or other exceptional conditions
exist, in which case a driveway grade not to exceed fifteen percent within twenty feet of
the roadway boundary may be approved by the engineering division for reconstruction and
reconnection on Copperton Metro Township projects and by the director for other
development, provided that the exception to the ten percent grade requirements is not
detrimental to public safety or the public welfare.

D. There will be a minimum ten feet distance between all approved driveways. An exception
to this requirement may be approved by the engineering division for reconstruction and
reconnection on Copperton Metro Township projects and by the director for other
development, provided that the exception to these minimum distance requirements is not
detrimental to public safety or the public welfare. Provided further, that if the public right-
of-way has been vacated, then the distance can be reduced to no less than twice the vacated
distance.

E. Driveways will be a minimum of five feet from a side property line at the front lot line. An
exception to this requirement may be approved by the engineering division for
reconstruction and reconnection on Copperton Metro Township projects and by the director
for other development, provided that the exception to these minimum distance
requirements is not detrimental to public safety or to the public welfare. Provided further,
that if the public right-of-way has been vacated, then the distance can be reduced to no less
than twice the vacated distance.

F. Additional Requirements for Residential Driveways

1. The minimum street driveway width at the property line for a residential driveway will
be ten feet and the maximum will be thirty-five feet.

2. There will be a minimum of thirty-five feet between the entrances of circular
driveways.

3. A minimum four-foot radius or flared section will be used.

4. No radius or flare portion of a driveway will intersect the adjacent projected property
line except where shared driveways are utilized.

5. On corner lots, driveways will be set back a minimum of twenty feet from the point of
intersection of the right-of-way-lines.

G. Additional Requirements for Commercial, Industrial, and Multi-Family Driveways:

1. On corner lots, driveways will be set back a minimum of sixty feet from the projected
intersection right-of-way lines with a minimum five-feet flared section. Flared
driveways are required for distinction from intersection corners.

2. The minimum width of a driveway will be twelve feet and the maximum will be fifty
feet.

H. This Section will apply to driveway construction and placement after May 16, 2018. It will
not apply retroactively to the construction and placement of driveways that took place prior

to May 16, 2018.
