                            COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP



Resolution No. 2021-09-02                                          Date: September 15, 2021



 A RESOLUTION OF THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL ADOPTING A
 CONTINUITY OF OPERATIONS PLAN (COOP).

 WHEREAS it is the mission of the Copperton Metro Township, ensure, its operations are
 performed efficiently with minimal disruption, especially during an emergency;

 WHEREAS this document provides planning and program guidance for implementing the
 Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) to ensure the Copperton Metro Township is capable of
 conducting its daily operations under all threats and conditions;

 WHEREAS this CONTINUITY PLAN (COOP) has been developed in accordance with guidance in
 Executive Order 12656, Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities; National
 Security Presidential Directive 51/Homeland Security Presidential Directive 20, National
 Continuity Policy; Homeland Security Council, National Continuity Policy Implementation Plan;
 Federal Continuity Directive 1, Federal Executive Branch National Continuity Program and
 Requirements, October 2012;

WHEREAS the Copperton Metro Township desires to adopt a COOP in the interest of
public health, safety and welfare:

NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL AS
FOLLOWS:

         Section 1. Adoption of a Continuity of Operations P l a n . The Copperton Metro
 Township Council hereby adopts the Continuity of Operations Plan attached hereto as
 Exhibit A.

       Section 2 . Effective Date. This Resolution shall become effective immediately
 upon its passage.
PASSED and ADOPTED by the Copperton Metro Township Council this 15th day of
September 2021.



Sean Clayton, Mayor

ATTEST:


Sherrie Swensen, Clerk



4852-4345-4395, v. 2
              Continuity Plan for
          Copperton Metro Township

                         September 2021




Copperton Metro Township, P.O. Box 125, Copperton, UT 84006 (801) 615-3900
Copperton Metro Township Continuity Plan




                       THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK
Copperton Metro Township Continuity Plan
                                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS

 BASIC PLAN ................................................................................................................................ 5
  I.     PROMULGATION STATEMENT ........................................................................................ 5
  II.    ANNUAL REVIEW ............................................................................................................. 6
  III. RECORD OF CHANGES ..................................................................................................... 6
  IV. RECORD OF DISTRIBUTION.............................................................................................. 6
  V.     PURPOSE, SCOPE, SITUATIONS, AND ASSUMPTIONS..................................................... 7
  VI. CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS .............................................................................................. 9
  VII. DIRECTION, CONTROL, AND COORDINATION............................................................... 15
  VIII. COMMUNICATIONS ....................................................................................................... 15
  IX. BUDGETING AND ACQUISITION OF RESOURCES .......................................................... 15
  X.     MULTI-YEAR STRATEGY AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT PLAN (MYSPMP) ................ 15
  XI. PLAN DEVELOPMENT AND MAINTENANCE .................................................................. 15
  XII. ORGANIZATION AND ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES .......................................... 16
  XIII. AUTHORITIES AND REFERENCES ................................................................................... 16

 ANNEX A. IDENTIFICATION OF CONTINUITY PERSONNEL .................................................... 17

 ANNEX C. ESSENTIAL RECORDS MANAGEMENT .................................................................. 18

 ANNEX D. LEADERSHIP AND STAFF....................................................................................... 19

 ANNEX E. TEST, TRAINING, AND EXERCISES PROGRAM....................................................... 20

 ANNEX F. AUTHORITIES AND REFERENCES .......................................................................... 21

 ANNEX G. ACRONYMNS ........................................................................................................ 22

 ANNEX H. AFTER ACTION REPORT ...................................................................................... 23

 ANNEX I. CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN .................................................................................... 24
                                       BASIC PLAN

I.   PROMULGATION STATEMENT
     The Copperton Metro Township’s mission is to ensure its operations are performed
     efficiently with minimal disruption, especially during an emergency. This document
     provides planning and program guidance for implementing the Copperton Metro
     Township Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) to ensure the organization is
     capable of conducting its daily operations under all threats and conditions.

     At the time of an emergency that threatens the Copperton Metro Township, and the
     activation of this plan, the Chief Elected Executive or his/her designee will decide to
     activate their internet Zoom platform or relocate to an identified Continuity
     Relocation Site. The Copperton Metro Township designee must check in with the
     GSLMSD within 12 hours from the time of the activation of the COOP, for up to a
     30-day period, or until normal operations can be resumed.

     This Plan has been developed in accordance with guidance in Executive Order
     12656, Assignment of Emergency Preparedness Responsibilities; National Security
     Presidential Directive 51/Homeland Security Presidential Directive 20, National
     Continuity Policy; Homeland Security Council, National Continuity Policy
     Implementation Plan; Federal Continuity Directive 1, Federal Executive Branch
     National Continuity Program and Requirements, October 2012;

     Promulgated this 15th day of September 2021


     _________________________________             Mayor
     Name                                          Title




                                             5
II.   ANNUAL REVIEW

The Chief Elected Executive of the Copperton Metro Township, or his/her designee, is
responsible for the overall maintenance (review and update) of this COOP and for
ensuring that changes and revision are prepared, coordinated, published, and
distributed.
This COOP will be reviewed and updated annually. Any changes will be based on
deficiencies identified in simulated or actual use or due to organizational or
technological changes.

III. RECORD OF CHANGES
Any changes or revisions to the COOP will be forwarded to the Copperton Metro
Township Chief Elected Executive and to all members of the Copperton Metro
Township Council.

                                   Date of       Individual Making
Change Number      Section                                              Description of Change
                                   Change              Change




IV. RECORD OF DISTRIBUTION

The COOP will be distributed to the Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive,
and all members of the Copperton Metro Township Council. The name and title of
receiver will be entered.

  Date of       Number of Copies                               Name, Title, and of Receiver
                                       Method of Delivery
  Delivery         Delivered




                                             6
PURPOSE, SCOPE, SITUATIONS, AND ASSUMPTIONS

   A.       PURPOSE

   The purpose of the Copperton Metro Township COOP is to ensure that the daily
   operations are performed efficiently with minimal disruption, especially during an
   emergency. This document provides planning and program guidance for implementing
   the COOP to ensure the Copperton Metro Township is capable of conducting its business
   under all threats and conditions.

   B.       SCOPE

   This COOP applies to the daily business operations of Copperton Metro Township in the
   event its normal operations are disrupted or threatened with disruption. This COOP
   applies to all Copperton Metro Township elected officials. These elected officials must
   be familiar with Continuity policies and procedures and their respective Continuity roles
   and responsibilities.

   C.       SITUATION OVERVIEW

   According to NSPD 51/HSPD 20, it is the policy of the United States to maintain a
   comprehensive and effective Continuity capability composed of Continuity of Operations
   and Continuity of Government programs in order to ensure the preservation of our form
   of government under the Constitution and the continuing performance of National
   Essential Functions under all conditions.

   Further, Continuity planning must be based on the assumption that organizations will not
   receive warning of an impending emergency. As a result, a risk assessment is essential to
   focusing Continuity planning.

   The Copperton Metro Township COOP was developed following an all-hazards risk
   assessment of their Township. The Copperton Metro Township risk assessment can be
   located in the Copperton Metro Township Emergency Operations Plan (EOP) Binder.

   The risk assessments addresses the following:

        •    Identification of all hazards
        •    A vulnerability assessment to determine the effects of all hazards
        •    A cost-benefit analysis of implementing risk mitigation, prevention, or control
             measures
        •    Sufficient levels of physical security required to protect against identified threats
        •    Sufficient levels of information security required to protect against identified threats




                                                  7
D.       PLANNING ASSUMPTIONS

This COOP is based on the following assumptions:

     •During emergency conditions or declaration, the Copperton Metro Township need
      to decide to activate their internet Zoom platform or move to their Continuity
      Relocation Site (CRS), and develop secure communications with the GSLMSD.
   • The Copperton Metro Township CRS should be able to support the continuation
      of their Essential Functions, using all available communications and information
      systems within 12 hours or less from the time the COOP is activated, for
      potentially up to a 30-day period, or until normal operations can be resumed.
   • If the GSLMSD relocates due to the emergency, the Copperton Metro Township
      will reestablish communications with the GSLMSD at its CRS.
   • The Copperton Metro Township will identify a representative who will respond to
      the GSLMSD CRS, if requested.
                     Terence Rooms
E.   OBJECTIVES

The Copperton Metro Township Continuity objectives are:

 1) Execute a successful activation of this COOP.
 2) A succession with the GSLMSD in the event a disruption renders Copperton Metro
    Township leadership unable, unavailable, or incapable of assuming and performing
    their authorities and responsibilities of the office.
 3) Reduce or mitigate disruptions to operations.
 4) Achieve Copperton Metro Township’s timely and orderly recovery and
    reconstitution from an emergency.
 5) Ensure and validate Continuity readiness through a dynamic and integrated Continuity
    Testing, Training, and Exercise program and operational capability


F.       SECURITY AND PRIVACY STATEMENT

This COOP is For Official Use Only. Portions of this COOP contain information that raises
personal privacy or other concerns, and those portions may be exempt from mandatory
disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (see 5 U.S.C §552, 41 CFR Part 105-60).
It is to be controlled, stored, handled, transmitted, distributed, and disposed of in
accordance with Salt Lake County Ordinance Chapter 2.82 - RECORDS MANAGEMENT,
and is not to be released to the public or other personnel who do not have a valid “need
to know” without prior approval of the Town or Township Chief Elected Executive, or
his/her designee.




                                           8
     Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive will distribute copies of the COOP
     on a “Need to Know” basis. Copies of this COOP will be distributed to Town or
     Township Elected Officials, via hard copy. If an electronic copy is requested, the COOP
     will be distributed electronically by the Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected
     Executive only. A copy of this COOP will also be available for reading only, on the
     Copperton Metro Township’s website. In addition, the Manager of the GSLMSD and the
     Salt Lake County Division of Emergency Management (SLCo DEM) will receive copies of
     this COOP. Further, the Chief Elected Executive will distribute updated versions of the
     COOP as critical changes occur.

CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS

     This section explains how the Copperton Metro Township will implement its COOP and,
     specifically, how it plans to address each of the Continuity critical elements. There are four
     phases in this section. They are Readiness and Preparedness; Activation; Continuity
     Facility Operations; and, Reconstitution. Devolution (transfer of authority) and planning
     strongly correlates in each phase and are addressed in this section.

A.    READINESS AND PREPAREDNESS

     Copperton Metro Township shall participate in a full spectrum of Readiness and
     Preparedness activities to ensure its elected officials can continue with their daily
     duties in an all-hazard risk environment.

     Readiness and Preparedness

      Copperton Metro Township preparedness incorporates the one key component that
      is levels of readiness, monitoring. The monitoring of readiness levels of the SLCo DEM
      will help the Chief Executive in preparation for an emergency.

      The Copperton Metro Township recognizes the three levels of readiness established by
      the SLCo DEM.

        COGCON
                                                 Activity                                    Frequency
         Level
       Level 3     Activation of COOP for Town or Township in response to overall        Rarely
                   county emergency
       Level 2     Activation of COOP if Town or Township is affected                    Rarely
       Level 1     Monitor Emergency conditions                                          Often




                                                 9
Readiness and Preparedness

 Copperton Metro Township elected officials must also prepare for a Continuity event. The
 elected officials should plan what to do in case of an emergency and should develop a
 Family Support Plan to increase personal and family preparedness. To develop this Family
 Support Plan, the following templates available at www.ready.gov. This site includes a
 “Get Ready Now” pamphlet, which explains the importance of planning and provides a
 template that can use to develop a specific plan.

 Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive will develop a roster of elected
 officials needed for delegation of authority. That roster shall be maintained and updated
 quarterly. That roster shall be shared with the GSLMSD and the SLCo DEM.

 Copperton Metro Township elected official designated to respond to the GSLMSD on
 request during a COOP activation, has the responsibility to create and maintain drive-away
 kit with recommendations what it should contain. The items are identified in the table
 below. These kits should be maintained and inventoried yearly by the official designated.


                               SAMPLE: Drive Away Kit
 The following table shows possible items to recommend for Continuity drive-away kits.
                                           Drive Away Kit
   •   Identification and charge cards       •   Business and personal contact numbers
       o Government ID card                      o Emergency phone numbers and addresses
       o Driver’s license                            (relatives, medical doctor, pharmacist)
       o Government travel card              •   Toiletries
       o Health insurance card               •   Chargers/extra batteries for phones, GPS, and
       o Personal charge card                    laptop
   •   Communication equipment               •   Bottled water and non-perishable food (i.e.,
       o Pager/BlackBerry                        granola, dried fruit, etc.)
       o Government cell phone               •   Medical needs
       o Personal cell phone                     o Insurance information
       o Government Emergency                    o List of allergies/blood type
           Telephone Services                    o Hearing aids and extra batteries
   •       card                                  o Glasses and contact lenses
   •   Hand-carried essential records            o Extra pair of eyeglasses/contact lenses
   •   Directions to Continuity Facility         o Prescription drugs (30-day supply)
   •   Maps of surrounding area                  o Over-the-counter medications, dietary
   •   Business and leisure clothing                 supplements
   •   Continuity Plan                       •   [Insert additional recommended items]



The Copperton Metro Township shall conduct a yearly Continuity Readiness and
Preparedness exercise.




                                                 10
B.    ACTIVATION

To ensure the ability to attain operational capability, with minimal disruption at CRS, the
Copperton Metro Township has developed activation steps, which are captured in the
following sections.

Decision Process

Based on the type and severity of the emergency, the Copperton Metro Township COOP may
be activated by the following method:
       • The Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designated
          successor, may initiate the COOP activation based on an emergency or threat
          directed at the Town or Township;

The COOP activation is a scenario-driven process that allows flexible and scalable responses
to the full spectrum of emergencies and other events that could disrupt daily operations with
or without warning. The COOP activation is not required for all emergencies and disruptive
situations since other actions may be deemed appropriate.
As the decision authority, the Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her
designee, will keep informed of the threat environment using all available means, which may
include SLCo DEM intelligence reports, national/local reporting channels, and the news
media. The Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive or his/her designee will
evaluate, with the Manager of the GSLMSD, all available information relating to:
       • Direction and guidance from higher authorities;
       • Changes in readiness or advisory levels;
       • Intelligence reports;
       • The potential or actual effects on communication systems and information
           systems;
       • The expected duration of the emergency.

 Alert and Notification Procedures

 The Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive or his/her designee, will maintain
 communications and coordinating prior to an event, with the other elected officials of the
 Copperton Metro Township, by monitoring advisory information, which may including the
 updates from the SLCo DEM, Salt Lake County Health Department, and the GSLMSD. In the
 event normal operations are interrupted, or if an incident appears imminent, the Copperton
 Metro Township Chief Elected Executive or his /her designee will take the following steps:
       • Notify the SLCo Emergency Manager or the Watch Desk of COOP Activation,
       • Notify the GSLMSD Manager or their designee, of their COOP activation,
       • Contact all Copperton Metro Township Council members, advising them of the
          activation of the COOP,
       • Notify the designated representative from the Copperton Metro Township body
          who, if requested, will respond to the designated CRS, or activate a Council
          Meeting through the internet media process such as Zoom.




                                                11
 Relocation Process

 •   Following activation of the COOP the Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected
     Executive, or his or her designee, must be prepared to secure and access all essential
     records for an internet Zoom meeting or at the designated CRS, if necessary.
 •   If the decision is to move to the designated CRS, the Copperton Metro Township Chief
     Elected Executive or his/her designee will move by their own choice of transportation, or
     set a time and date for an internet media Zoom platform meeting for the Copperton
     Metro Township Council.
 •   Ensure security and safety of the CRS

C.   CONTINUITY OPERATIONS

 The Chief Elected Official or his/her designee has the decision to choose which COOP
 relocation and operations that best suit the township during the emergency. They are:

 1. Activation of the Internet Media platform for Zoom Meeting
 On activation of the internet media process Zoom the Copperton Metro Township
 representative will:
   • Contact all Township Council members of media site, date, and time of internet
       meeting;
   • Notify Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee,
       of a status update;
   • Comply with any additional Continuity reporting requirements;
   • Notify family members, next of kin, and emergency contacts of preferred contact
       methods and information.

 2. Arrival at the Copperton Metro Township CRS

 If the decision is to move to a CRS, designated in the COOP, the Copperton Metro
 Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, and Council will continue daily
 operations until ordered to cease operations by their representative at the CRS.

 On arrival at the Copperton Metro Township CRS, the Chief Elected Executive or his/her
 designate will:
       • Secure all communications and internet capabilities
       • Report immediately to the Copperton Metro Township that the CRS is
           operational, documents secured, and to cease all operations
       • Contact GSLMSD Manager, or his/her designate and advise them that the CRS is
           operational and functional
       • Contact the SLCo DEM and advise them of the relocation and secure
           communications
       • Ensure that the CRS has enough supplies and logistical support to continue
           operations for the next 12 to 30 day
       • Advise all other Copperton Metro Township Elected Officials, of the move, then
           wait for further guidance.


                                              12
D.   RECONSTITUTION OPERATIONS

 Within 12 hours of an emergency relocation, the Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected
 Executive, or his/her designee, will check in with the Manager of the GSLMSD, and the SLCo
 EM, to decide if normal operations can be resumed. The Copperton Metro Township Chief
 Elected Executive, or his/her designee, will then notify all other elected officials that the
 emergency or threat of emergency has passed and that the Copperton Metro Township
 as returned to normal operations.

 The Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, will identify
 any records and databases, affected by the incident and will effectively transition or recover
 those essential records and databases.

     Record Transition Procedure
        • Identify key records needed to continue Copperton Metro Township operations
        • Identify how those records are to be transported, either physically or
            electronically
        • Identify how the records will be accessed once the Copperton Metro Township is
            up and operational

 The Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, shall oversee
 the orderly transition of all records back to the Copperton Metro Township once the
 emergency has passed.


 After the emergency or disaster, the Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive
 will identify lessons learned, best practices, and improvement needs. An After-Action
 Report/Improvement meeting will be held with the Township elected officials and a
 representative from the GSLMSD, for the purposes of summarizing the event; identifying
 opportunities to improve and enhance the organization’s COOP program, plans, and,
 developing an approach to implementing improvements. The Copperton Metro Township
 Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, has the responsibility for initiating and
 completing an After-Action Report (AAR). A copy of the After Action Report is located in the
 Annex G of this plan.




                                               13
DEVOLUTION OF CONTROL AND DIRECTION

 The Copperton Metro Township is prepared to transfer all of their responsibilities to the
 GSLMSD should the events of the emergency render leadership or staff unavailable to
 support the COOP. If deployment of Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive
 or his/her representative is not feasible due to the unavailability, inability to communicate,
 or temporary loss of leadership, the leadership of Copperton Metro Township will devolve
 to the GSLMSD Manager or his/her designee. The Copperton Metro Township Chief
 Elected Executive maintains responsibility for ensuring the currency of the Copperton
 Metro Township Devolution Plan.

 The Copperton Metro Township Devolution decision-making process, or transfer of
 authority, includes the following:

 •   The Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive will determine if they or his/her
     designee is unavailable to move to the CRS, the Devolution Plan is to be activated or
     “triggered”.

 •   The Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, will
     then confer with the Copperton Metro Township Council, if possible, and the
     Manager of the GSLMSD, to determine how and when direction and control of the
     Copperton Metro Township operations will be transferred.

 •   The Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designee, will establish
     and maintain a capability to restore or reconstitute Copperton Metro Township
     authorities to their pre-event status upon termination of Devolution.

 Copperton Metro Township will conduct and document annual training of Devolution. This
 exercise or training will be documented to include the dates of all training events and names
 of participating Council members. The Devolution training documentation will be
 maintained with the Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive and with the
 GSLMSD Manager. Further, the Copperton Metro Township Corrective Action Program
 (CAP) will also be developed. All corrective actions identified in the CAP will be maintained
 by the Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, with a copy for the Manager of the
 GSLMSD.




                                               14
Direction, Control, and Coordination

During an activation of the COOP, the Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive
or his/her designate, will work with the GSLMSD leadership to continue daily operations.
Should the Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive becomes unavailable or
incapacitated; the organization will follow the directions in Annex. D for Orders of
Succession, and Delegations of Authority.

The contents and procedures laid forth in this COOP are consistent with the direction
found in the Copperton Metro Township EOP, GSLMSD EOP, and the SLCo EOP. As a
result, this COOP and its concepts are integrated horizontally with local and county
agencies. Further, the COOP is to be reviewed and to be vetted by the Copperton Metro
Township Chief Elected Executive, Copperton Metro Township Council Members, the
GSLMSD Manager, or his/her designate, and the SLCo DEM, to ensure vertical integration.


Communications

All previously identified Copperton Metro Township communications and IT capabilities
must be operational as soon as possible following COOP activation and, in all cases, within
12 hours.

Budgeting and Acquisition

The Copperton Metro Township shall identify and budget for:
    • Those items necessary to carry out the COOP Mission,
    • The CRS “Go Kit” which is the responsibility of the individual identified as the
       representative who will respond to the CRS or the GSLMSD CRS,
    • The Copperton Metro Township will identify those non-personal items for the “Go
       Kit” and include them in their budget as part of the COOP,
    • The Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive or his/her designate, shall
       identify the person(s) to do the yearly audit and identify any items to be replaced.

MULTI-YEAR STRATEGY AND PROGRAM MANAGEMENT PLAN (MYSPMP)

Copperton Metro Township has developed a Multi-Year Strategy and Program
Management Plan (MYSPMP) that provides for the development, maintenance, and
annual review of COOP. A copy of the MYSPMP will be located with the Copperton Metro
Township at their offices 8952 W. Copperton Main Street, Copperton, UT 84044.

Plan Development and Maintenance

The Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, or his/her designate, is
responsible for maintaining the Copperton Metro Township COOP.

This COOP will be reviewed by the Copperton Metro Township Chief Elected Executive, the
Copperton Metro Township Council members, and updated annually from the date of

                                             15
 publication. The plan will be updated or amended when; there are significant
 organizational, procedural changes; or other events that affect Continuity processes or
 procedures.

ORGANIZATION AND ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES
 The Copperton Metro Township will designate, by vote of Copperton Metro
 Township Council, a designee who will respond to set up the Copperton Metro
 Township internet Zoom platform, or move to the CRS.

DIRECTION, CONTROL, AND COORDINATION
 All direction, control, and coordination of this plan will be with the Copperton Metro
 Township Chief Elected Executive or his/her designate, working with the Manager of the
 GSLMSD Manager, or his/her designee.

COMMUNICATIONS
  All communications for the COOP will be identified by the Copperton Metro Township Chief
  Elected Executive, in agreement with the Copperton Metro Township Council members.

  Any and all forms of communications will be used by the Copperton Metro Township Chief
  Elected Executive, or his/her designee, including:
      • Cell Phone
      • Internet
      • Satellite Phone


AUTHORITIES AND REFERENCES

  Federal Emergency Management Agency Continuity of Operations Plan guidelines
  Utah State Emergency Operations Plan
  Salt Lake County Emergency Operations Plan
  Salt Lake County Continuity of Operations Plan




                                              16
            ANNEX A. IDENTIFICATION OF CONTINUITY PERSONNEL
Identified below are the essential personnel to the COOP, their titles, and contact
information.



 Title/ Position   Name                              Telephone Numbers
    Mayor                  Sean Clayton                     801-615-3900
Council Member              Dave Olsen                      385-266-6912
 Deputy Mayor              Tessa Stitzer                    801-230-4401
  Treasurer,              Kathleen Bailey                   801-971-0841
Council Member
Council Member            Kevin Severson                    801-867-9931
Salt Lake County            Rosie Rivera                    801-743-7000
      Sheriff




                                             17
                       ANNEX B. ESSENTIAL RECORDS MANAGEMENT
Identify and list those files, records, or databases that are vital to the Town or Township daily
operations.



                          Form of
                                         Hand        Multiple Storage
                           Record
  Essential Record,                   Carried to     Location(s) Y/N      Maintenance
                            (e.g.,
  File, or Database                   Continuity                           Frequency
                         hardcopy,
                                       Facility
                         electronic)
All Township Records   Electronic    N/A            Located on the Monthly
                                                    cloud (SL County
                                                    servers or MSD
                                                    Municode)




                                                   18
                         ANNEX C. LEADERSHIP AND STAFF

1. ORDERS OF SUCCESSION

The order of succession is:
   1. Chief Elected Executive (Mayor) of the Copperton Metro Township;
   2. Vice Chair Elected Executive (Deputy Mayor) of Copperton Metro Township;
   3. Treasurer, then Council Members of Copperton Metro Township selected as
       designee



2. DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY

The delegation of authority for the Copperton Metro Township, with all decision making
authority, shall be:

    •   The Copperton Metro Township Mayor;
    •   The Copperton Metro Township Deputy Mayor;
    •   A Copperton Metro Township Council Member designated by the Council;
    •   GSLMSD Manager only when the Copperton Metro Township elected officials are
        unavailable. The Manager of the GSLMSD is authorized to act in behalf of the
        Copperton Metro Township, until an elected official is available.




                                           19
              ANNEX D. TEST, TRAINING, AND EXERCISES PROGRAM
List the training and exercise program for the Copperton Metro Township.

                                                                                      As
         Continuity TT&E Requirements             Monthly   Quarterly   Annually
                                                                                   Required




                                                                           Confirmation
      Event            Event Type and Purpose             Date              Initials or
                                                                            Signature


  Participants                 Office                 Phone/Email




                                         20
                       ANNEX E. AUTHORITIES AND REFERENCES
Federal
National Security Presidential Directive 51
Homeland Security Presidential Directive 20, National Continuity Policy
Homeland Security Council, National Continuity Policy Implementation Plan
Federal Continuity Directive 1, Federal Executive Branch National Continuity Program and
Requirements, October 2012

State
Utah State Emergency Operations Plan
Utah State Continuity of Operations Plan

County
2019 Salt Lake County Emergency Operations Plan
Salt Lake County Continuity of Operations Plan
Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Continuity of Operations Plan




                                                21
                                 Incident Name and Date
                     After-Action Report/ Improvement Plan (AAR/IP)


                             ANNEX F. ACRONYMNS

ARES – Amateur Radio Emergency
Services
COG – Continuity of Government
CFR – Code of Federal
Regulations
COOP – Continuity of Operations
Plan
EMAC – Emergency Management Assistance Compact
EMS – Emergency Medical Services
EOC - Emergency Operations
Center
EOP - Emergency Operations
Plan
ESF - Emergency Support
Function
FEMA - Federal Emergency Management
Agency
GSLMSD – Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
Haz Mat - Hazardous Materials
HSPD- Homeland Security Presidential
ICS - Incident Command System
ICP - Incident Command
Post
JIC - Joint Information
Center
JIS – Joint Information
System
NIMS – National Incident Management
System
NRF – National Response Framework




                                           i
                       Emergency Management/Homeland Security
                Higher Education Regional Academic Collaborative Region V
                     After-Action Report/ Improvement Plan (AAR/IP)

SARA – Superfund Amendment and
Reauthorization Act
SOP – Standard Operating Procedures
TRAX – Light Rail System
UVDD—Utah Valley Dispatch District
VECC – Valley Emergency Communications
Center

WFZ – Wasatch Fault Zone
WVFZ – Wasatch Valley Fault Zone




                                           ii
                           Emergency Management/Homeland Security
                    Higher Education Regional Academic Collaborative Region V
                         After-Action Report/ Improvement Plan (AAR/IP)

                            ANNEX G. AFTER ACTION REPORT


                  After Action Report
After-Action Report and Improvement Plan
(Date)


This After-Action Report is a comprehensive report of actions taken, resource requests, and
activities that the representative from your Town, Township, or the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
Services District participated in.




This report was prepared by: (Name and Organization)




                                               ii
                           Emergency Management/Homeland Security
                    Higher Education Regional Academic Collaborative Region V
                         After-Action Report/ Improvement Plan (AAR/IP)



                        Table of Contents
Table of Contents    iv
After Action Report 5
Executive Summary 5
Successes and Areas of Improvement          6
Appendix A: Participants     7




                                                ii
                          After Action Report
   Incident Name       Name of the incident

    Engagement
                       Day, Month, Year
       Dates

        Scope            A brief explanation of the incident, location, your activation

                       Organization Name (eg. Town, Township, Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
       Sponsor
                       District)

    Participating      Number of personnel from your organization that activated and participated
     Personnel         during the incident

                       Name, Organization, address, contact phone number of person writing the
  Point of Contact
                       report

                          Executive Summary
A brief summary of events of the incident. Describe your activities, activation, any requests from your
organization, and participation in meetings or planning.




                          After Action Report                                 5
                     Successes and Areas of Improvement
Location of the Incident:
Strengths: Describe what worked that you participated in, during the incident

Area for Improvement I: Identify any areas where this activity could be improved and your
corrective action that you suggest might correct the issue.

Strengths: Describe what worked that you participated in, during the incident

Area for Improvement II: Identify any areas where this activity could be improved and your
corrective action that you suggest might correct the issue.

Strengths: Describe what worked that you participated in, during the incident

Area for Improvement III: Identify any areas where this activity could be improved and your
corrective action that you suggest might correct the issue.




                     After Action Report                             6
       Appendix A: Participants

                                  Participants
Name                 Email                       Organization




                                       7
                                                ANNEX H. CORRECTIVE ACTION PLAN
                                                              Corrective Action Plan
             Event Name:
             Town or Township:
             Date of Event:
                    Activity:                                                        Period by which action is planned to be completed:

                                            Criteria in the
                                            report met
Activity to be addressed from XXXXX Event   Yes or No              Action To Be Addressed                                            Who   When
                                                                   Consider also the documentary evidence required to support your
                                                                   actions.




                                                                           8
