COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-01 DATE: January 15, 2025
AN ORDINANCE REVISING THE COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL’S AT-LARGE
SEATS AND ENACTING CONFORMING EDITS TO TITLE 2 OF THE COPPERTON
MUNICIPAL CODE TO COMPLY WITH H.B 35

WHEREAS, the municipality of Copperton (“Copperton’’) incorporated as a metro
township on January 1, 2017; and

WHEREAS, the laws governing metro townships required: (a) the Copperton Council
(“Council”) to consist of five members who were elected at large; and (b) for the Council, rather
than the voters of Copperton, to elect one Council member to serve as the Mayor of Copperton;
and

WHEREAS, in 2019, the Council subsequently adopted revisions to the Copperton
Municipal Code, now found in Section 2.04.030, that specified that all Council elections shall be
held on a per-seat, single member at large basis, and assigned each Council member an individual
seat known as Seats A, B, C, D, and E; and

WHEREAS, during the 2024 legislative session, the Utah Legislature passed H.B. 35,
which converted the metro townships of Copperton, Kearns, Emigration Canyon, Magna, and
White City into cities and towns based on their population effective May 1, 2024; and

WHEREAS, on May 1, 2024, Copperton became a town pursuant to Utah Code § 10-2-
301(2)(f); and

WHEREAS, among other things, H.B. 35 required: (a) Copperton and the other former
metro townships to operate as a five-member council forms of government under Title 10, Chapter
3b, Part 4 of the Utah Code until such time as they elect (if they elect) to convert to a different
form of municipal government; and (b) for the then-existing Mayor to stand for election at-large
at the next municipal election in 2025, meaning that the position of Mayor will be separate from
the at-large Council seats; and

WHEREAS, to comply with H.B. 35, the Council must reduce its at-large seats from five
to four pursuant to its authority under Utah Code § 10-1-103; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to revise the at-large voting seats to comply with H.B. 35
and to make conforming edits to repeal and replace Chapter 2.04 of the Copperton Municipal Code,
which governs Copperton’s form of government and related matters involving Council
administration, to reflect Copperton’s status as a five-member council form of municipal
government.

l

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL
AS FOLLOWS:

1. Enactment: The Council’s at-large voting seats are revised and renumbered as
follows, provided that nothing in this Ordinance shall change the term of a Council member,
with the exception of the Mayor, whose term shall conclude on December 31, 2025, pursuant
to H.B. 35 and Utah Code § 10-1-201.5(5)(b) (ai):

a. Mayor: Sean Clayton with a term ending December 31, 2025

b. At-Large Seat A: Kathleen Bailey with a term ending January 31, 2027
c. At-Large Seat B: Tessa Stitzer with a term ending January 31, 2027

d. At-Large Seat C: Kevin Severson with a term ending January 31, 2025
e. At-Large Seat D: Linda McCalmon with a term ending January 31, 2025

2. Modifications to Chapter 2.04 of the Copperton Municipal Code: Chapter
2.04 of the Copperton Municipal Code is repealed and replaced in its entirety with the
ordinance attached hereto as Exhibit 1.

3. Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of
this ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this ordinance, or specific
application of this ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in
full force and effect.

4. Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and directed
to take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah
law, including but not limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711;
and (b) to finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.

5. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall go into effect on February 1, 2025.

[Execution on following page]
2

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Copper Council on this 15" day of
January 2025.
COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL
By:
Sean C ;
ATTEST:
Diana Baun, Clerk
COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL VOTE:
Council Member Bailey voting Prue
Council Member Clayton voting
Council Member McCalmon voting
Council Member Severson voting foe
Council Member Stitzer voting frye

(Complete as Applicable)

Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code §10-3-

711:__¢J Anuay \lo ,2029

Effective date of ordinance: February 1, 2025

SUMMARY OF
TOWN OF COPPERTON
3

EXHIBIT 1
CHAPTER 2.04 -- CITY COUNCIL
2.04.010 Form of Government
Copperton operates as a five-member council form of municipal government
pursuant to applicable state law, and the powers of municipal government are vested
in a council consisting of five members, one of which is the Mayor.
2.04.020 Powers and Duties
The Council shall be the governing body of Copperton and may exercise those
powers and authorities and be bound by those duties and responsibilities set out
in state law and in Copperton’ ordinances.
2.04.030 Eligibility and Voting Districts
The Council shall consist of a Mayor elected at-large and four Council
members, elected by district as provided in state law. Voting districts shall be
determined pursuant to state law.
2.04.040 Term Of Office
Council members shall be elected at the next municipal election preceding the
expiration of the term of office of incumbents. Council members shall be elected
for four-year terms pursuant to state law. Each Council member shall hold office
for the term of which elected and until a successor is elected and has qualified
as provided in state law.
2.04.050 Vacancies
When a vacancy occurs in the Council, through ineligibility, resignation or
death of an incumbent or of an officer-elect before qualifying, or refusal to act,
or for any other reason, the vacancy shall be filled as provided in state law.
2.04.060 Mayor Pro Tempore and Appointment of Staff
A. With the consent of the Council, the Mayor shall designate a Council

member at a duly noticed and open Council meeting to serve as the

Mayor Pro Tempore to carry out all duties and responsibilities of the

Mayor when the Mayor is absent or unable to perform his or her duties.

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit !
l

The recorder shall enter in the minutes of the Council meeting the

appointment of a Council member as Mayor Pro Tempore.

B. The Council may make such staff appointments as are necessary for the
proper conduct of its business.

C. The Mayor shall be responsible for the conduct of all meetings,
overseeing the preparation of the agenda by the recorder for all
meetings, and meeting the needs of the Council between meetings,
including the providing of assistance and the gathering of information
for the Council and the performance of duties assigned by the Council
or by ordinance, the plan or by law.

D. If the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore are unable to act, the remaining
Council members present at a duly noticed open meeting shall, by an
order entered in their minutes, select one of the members to act as
Mayor temporarily.

E. The recorder shall administer oaths to any person when necessary in the
performance of official duties.

2.04.070 Powers And Duties of Mayor

A. The Mayor shall:

1. Be the chief executive officer of Copperton and shall have such
powers and duties as are prescribed by state law and Copperton’
ordinances;

2. Bearegular and voting member of the Council;

3. Serve as the Chair of the Council and preside at all Council
meetings;

4. Exercise ceremonial functions on behalf of Copperton; and

5. Except as otherwise limited by state law or Copperton ordinance,
have the powers and duties described in Utah Code §§ 10-3b-104
and 10-3b-402 or applicable successor statute.

B. The Mayor may not veto any ordinance, tax levy, or appropriation
passed by the Council.

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
2

2.04.080 Powers and Duties of Council

A. The Council shall exercise any executive or administrative power and
perform or supervise the performance of any executive or administrative
duty or function of Copperton that has not been given to the Mayor
under state law and Copperton’ ordinances.

B. The Council may by ordinance:

1. Pursuant to state law and Copperton’ ordinances, remove from
the Mayor any power, duty, or function of the Mayor pursuant
to state law, excluding the Mayor’s legislative powers, judicial
powers, ceremonial functions, position as Chair of the Council,
and any ex officio position the Mayor may hold;

2. Reinstate to the Mayor any power, duty, or function previously
removed under this Section;

3. Delegate to the Mayor any executive or administrative power,
duty, or function of the Council;

4. Assign any or all Council members, including the Mayor, to
supervise one or more administrative departments of Copperton;

5. As provided in state law and this Title, appoint a City Manager
to perform executive and administrative duties or functions that
the Council by ordinance designates to the City Manager; and

6. Dismiss a City Manager appointed by the Council.

C. Removing or reinstating to the Mayor a power, duty, or function under
this Section requires the affirmative vote of the Mayor or all Council
members except the Mayor.

2.04.090 Recorder-Minutes

A. The Copperton recorder, or designee, shall provide copies of the
minutes of all meetings of the Council to Council members in a manner
and within the times as established by the Council and agreed upon by
the recorder.

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
3

EXHIBIT 1
CHAPTER 2.04 -- CITY COUNCIL
2.04.010 Form of Government
Copperton operates as a five-member council form of municipal government
pursuant to applicable state law, and the powers of municipal government are vested
in a council consisting of five members, one of which is the Mayor.
2.04.020 Powers and Duties
The Council shall be the governing body of Copperton and may exercise those
powers and authorities and be bound by those duties and responsibilities set out
in state law and in Copperton’ ordinances.
2.04.030 Eligibility and Voting Districts
The Council shall consist of a Mayor elected at-large and four Council
members, elected by district as provided in state law. Voting districts shall be
determined pursuant to state law.
2.04.040 Term Of Office
Council members shall be elected at the next municipal election preceding the
expiration of the term of office of incumbents. Council members shall be elected
for four-year terms pursuant to state law. Each Council member shall hold office
for the term of which elected and until a successor is elected and has qualified
as provided in state law.
2.04.050 Vacancies
When a vacancy occurs in the Council, through ineligibility, resignation or
death of an incumbent or of an officer-elect before qualifying, or refusal to act,
or for any other reason, the vacancy shall be filled as provided in state law.
2.04.060 Mayor Pro Tempore and Appointment of Staff
A. With the consent of the Council, the Mayor shall designate a Council

member at a duly noticed and open Council meeting to serve as the

Mayor Pro Tempore to carry out all duties and responsibilities of the

Mayor when the Mayor is absent or unable to perform his or her duties.

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
1

The recorder shall enter in the minutes of the Council meeting the

appointment of a Council member as Mayor Pro Tempore.

B. The Council may make such staff appointments as are necessary for the
proper conduct of its business.

C. The Mayor shall be responsible for the conduct of all meetings,
overseeing the preparation of the agenda by the recorder for all
meetings, and meeting the needs of the Council between meetings,
including the providing of assistance and the gathering of information
for the Council and the performance of duties assigned by the Council
or by ordinance, the plan or by law.

D. If the Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore are unable to act, the remaining
Council members present at a duly noticed open meeting shall, by an
order entered in their minutes, select one of the members to act as
Mayor temporarily.

E. The recorder shall administer oaths to any person when necessary in the
performance of official duties.

2.04.070 Powers And Duties of Mayor

A. The Mayor shall:

1. Be the chief executive officer of Copperton and shall have such
powers and duties as are prescribed by state law and Copperton’
ordinances;

2. Be aregular and voting member of the Council;

3. Serve as the Chair of the Council and preside at all Council
meetings;

4, Exercise ceremonial functions on behalf of Copperton; and

5. Except as otherwise limited by state law or Copperton ordinance,
have the powers and duties described in Utah Code §§ 10-3b-104
and 10-3b-402 or applicable successor statute.

B. The Mayor may not veto any ordinance, tax levy, or appropriation
passed by the Council.

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
2

2.04.080 Powers and Duties of Council

A. The Council shall exercise any executive or administrative power and
perform or supervise the performance of any executive or administrative
duty or function of Copperton that has not been given to the Mayor
under state law and Copperton’ ordinances.

B. The Council may by ordinance:

1. Pursuant to state law and Copperton’ ordinances, remove from
the Mayor any power, duty, or function of the Mayor pursuant
to state law, excluding the Mayor’s legislative powers, judicial
powers, ceremonial functions, position as Chair of the Council,
and any ex officio position the Mayor may hold;

2. Reinstate to the Mayor any power, duty, or function previously
removed under this Section;

3. Delegate to the Mayor any executive or administrative power,
duty, or function of the Council;

4. Assign any or all Council members, including the Mayor, to
supervise one or more administrative departments of Copperton;

5. As provided in state law and this Title, appoint a City Manager
to perform executive and administrative duties or functions that
the Council by ordinance designates to the City Manager; and

6. Dismiss a City Manager appointed by the Council.

C. Removing or reinstating to the Mayor a power, duty, or function under
this Section requires the affirmative vote of the Mayor or all Council
members except the Mayor.

2.04.090 Recorder-Minutes

A. The Copperton recorder, or designee, shall provide copies of the
minutes of all meetings of the Council to Council members in a manner
and within the times as established by the Council and agreed upon by
the recorder.

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
3

B. In accordance with state law, the books, records and accounts of the
Council must be maintained at the office of the recorder and open at all
times during usual business hours for public inspection.

C. The records and minutes of the Council must be signed by the Mayor and
the recorder.

2.04.100 Council Meeting

A. All meetings of the Council must be public, except as provided in this
chapter and by state law. Official action may be taken by the Council
only in open public meetings unless otherwise permitted by state law.

B. The Council shall conduct its business in accordance with the Utah
Open and Public Meetings Act, Chapter 4 of Title 52. Utah Code
Annotate, 1953, as amended, as it now exists or as it may hereinafter be
amended.

C. The Council conducts the following types of meetings:

1. Regular Meetings;

2. Special Meetings;

3. Closed Meetings;

4. Work and other Meetings; and
5. Emergency Meetings.

D. The Council shall give public written notice at least once each year of
its annual meeting schedule for regular meetings. The public notice
shall specify the date, time and place of such meetings.

E. The Council, by majority vote of the members present, may direct the
removal of any person who willfully disrupts a Council meeting to the
extent that orderly conduct is seriously compromised.

F. The attorney and auditor or their designees may attend and assist the
Council at all meetings but shall attend and assist the Council at all
meetings when requested.

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
4

2.04.110 Work Meetings

A. The Council shall conduct its regular work sessions at the hour and
place designated by the Mayor.

B. Work meetings shall be scheduled or cancelled as the public business
requires and shall consist of discussion, review, testimony, requests and
information from Copperton’ officers and staff, presentations by the
public, review of regular meeting agendas, preparation for regular
meetings, and such other matters and activities as may be necessary or
scheduled by the Mayor in consultation with the Council.

C. Work meetings shall be open to the public in accordance with state law
and public notice shall be given of all meetings in the same manner as
required for regular meetings.

D. A quorum of Council members is necessary to conduct work meetings.

2.04.120 Regular/Special Meetings

A. The Council shall:

1. By ordinance prescribe the time and place for holding its regular
meeting; and

2. Hold a regular meeting at least once each month.

B. The Mayor or two Council members may order the convening of a special
meeting of the Council.

1. Each order convening a special meeting of the Council shall:

i. be entered in the minutes of the Council; and
ii. provide at least three hours' notice of the special meeting.

2. The recorder shall serve notice of the special meeting on each
Council member who did not sign the order by delivering the
notice personally or by leaving it at the Council member’s usual
place of abode.

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
5

3. The personal appearance by the Council member at a special meeting
of the Council constitutes a waiver of the notice required under this
Section.
2.04.130 Closed Meeting

A. A closed meeting of the Council may be held upon the affirmative vote
of two-thirds of the members present at an open meeting for which
notice has been given in accordance with state law; provided, however,
that a quorum must be present.

B. No closed meeting is allowed except for matters exempted from open
meetings under the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, as it now exists
or as it may hereinafter be amended.

C. No official action may be taken at a closed meeting.

D. The reason or reasons for holding a closed meeting and the vote thereon
shall be entered in the minutes of the meeting.

2.04.140 Emergency Meetings
When, because of unforeseen circumstances, it is necessary for the Council to
hold an emergency meeting to consider matters of an emergency or urgent
nature, the normal notice requirements for a meeting may be disregarded and
the best notice practicable given to the Council members and the public. No
such emergency meeting of the Council shall be held unless an attempt has been
made to notify all Council members and a majority of the Council votes in the
affirmative to hold the meeting. Action may not be taken at an emergency
meeting unless a quorum is present. A record shall be kept of the means utilized
to contact the members and the number voting and names of the members voting
to hold the meeting.
2.04.150 Additional Committees
A. The Council may establish additional committees as it deems
appropriate and may convene committee meetings at any time for the
purpose of study, discussion, investigation, formal hearings or
inquiries, workshops, training, or presentations by or responses from
citizens or other interested persons or groups.
Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
6

B. No official action may be taken in committee meetings other than the
adoption of non- binding recommendations to the Council.

C. Committee meetings shall be open to the public in accordance with state
law and public notice shall be given of all committee meetings in the
same manner as required for regular meetings.

2.04.160 Agenda

A. An agenda shall be prepared by the recorder in consultation with the
Mayor or the Mayor Tempore in the Mayor's absence in advance of each
meeting, including emergency meetings to the extent possible. The
agenda shall be published as provided by state law at least twenty-four
hours in advance of the meeting.

B. Matters received from any member of the Council or the Mayor shall
be placed on the agenda. Requests for matters to be placed upon the
agenda by persons other than Council members or Mayor, shall be
placed on the agenda at the discretion of the Mayor.

C. The Council, for its regular, special and committee meetings, shall
announce and post its agenda and provide notice of such meetings, in
accordance with the provisions of state law, at least twenty-four hours
prior to the convening of the Council meeting and posted on the Utah
Public Notice Website. Written notice of the agenda and meeting shall
be posted at the office of the Council or the meeting location, as the case
may be. For an emergency meeting, public notice and notice to the news
media shall be given as may be practical under the circumstances.

D. The agenda may be changed by a majority vote of the Council, but no
action may be taken on new matters introduced to the agenda unless
twenty-four hours’ notice has been duly given to the public or unless the
matter is of an emergency nature, as approved by a separate majority
vote of Council members present.

E. All agenda items pertaining to pending or proposed actions shall be
considered as proposals for adoption. In the absence of a motion to
adopt, postpone, or table pending or proposed actions, the Mayor shall,
upon the conclusion of discussion on the matter, declare that the
proposal fails adoption or, at the Mayor's discretion, declare the matter
to be held over for a subsequent meeting.

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
7

2.04.170 Public Hearing§.

A. Public hearings shall be deemed to include only those hearings
specifically noticed and required to be conducted by the Council by state
law or otherwise for the purposes of providing opportunities for the
general public to comment upon and make inquiries or presentations
with respect to specific proposals or matters under consideration by the
Council including, but not limited to, planning and zoning, ordinances,
budget hearings, hearings on the proposed issuance of bonds or debt, or
other matters of significant public interest. The Council at its discretion
may schedule public hearings for other matters under consideration.

B. Public hearings may be held as part of a regular special, committee,
emergency or other meeting of the Council. The decision to conduct a
public hearing shall be made by the Council at a regular, special or
emergency meeting.

C. Schedules for public hearings shall be announced by the Mayor and
public notice shall be given in the manner required for any public
meeting of the Council as required by law and this chapter. The notice
shall include the specific subject matter of the public hearing as well as
the time, date and place thereof.

D. At the beginning of any public hearing, the Mayor may publicly state
the rules of conduct for such public meetings including any time limits
on speakers' presentations, any requirement of submitting materials in
writing with sufficient copies for all Council members and the recorder,
and such other rules as may be reasonably necessary for the proper and
expeditious conduct of the public hearing.

E. Public hearings shall be opened upon the declaration of the Mayor that
the Council is at that time in a public hearing and the Mayor shall state
the specific purpose of that public hearing. Upon the conclusion of the
public hearing and a motion duly made, seconded, and carried by a
majority of the Council, the Mayor shall declare the public hearing
concluded or continued to another date, if permitted by law. The Mayor
shall state the conditions of any continuance.

F. Where permitted by state law, the Council may rehear any matter
decided after a public hearing where an aggrieved person files a written
request for rehearing that includes new evidence which the Council
determines to justify reconsideration of its decisions. A request for
rehearing shall be filed within ten days from the date of the original

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
8

decision. If a request for rehearing is granted by the Council, the
rehearing shal] follow the same procedures as the original hearing. No
rehearing shall be allowed on any matter where a rehearing would be
contrary to state law.

2.04.180 Form Of Action

The Council may take action in the form of ordinances, policies,

resolutions, motions upon requests or memorials.

A. Ordinances.

1. The Council, except as expressly limited by statute, shall exercise
its legislative powers through ordinances and may adopt any
ordinance to regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or
supervise any activities, business, conduct, or condition.

2. All ordinances must be in written form before a vote is taken.

3. Any ordinance passed by the Council shall contain and be in
substantially the following order and form:

i Ordinance number and date;
ii A title which indicates the nature of the subject matter
of the ordinance;
iii An explanation stating the need or reason for the ordinance
and summarizing its contents;
iv An ordaining clause which states “The Copperton Town
Council ordains as follows;”
v_ The body or subject of the ordinance;
vi When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation
of the ordinance;
vii A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance;
viii A signature line for the Mayor;
Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
9

ix An attestation line for the recorder;

x The votes of the Council members;

xi A space to indicate when the ordinance is posted pursuant to
state law; and

xii An ordinance summary if required by statute.

4. Except in exigent circumstances, or when directed by a majority
of Council members present, all ordinances, including ordinances
relating to planning and zoning matters, shall be introduced in
writing and read or described to the Council prior to the Council's
consideration for adoption of the ordinance. Copies of the
proposed ordinance shall be noticed and posted in accordance
with state law, along with the agenda for the meeting at which the
ordinance is to be considered.

5. Upon adoption, each ordinance shall be signed as required within five
days.

B. Resolutions.

1. The Council may exercise all administrative powers by resolution,
including, establishing fees and rates for municipal services,
administrative policies and guidelines, and the use and operation
of Copperton property.

2. Resolutions shall be considered and adopted in those matters
required by law or otherwise and may be used for policy
declarations and proposals not appropriately addressed by
ordinance and may be used to exercise Council authority in
matters of statements of policy and communication.

3. Resolutions shall be in a form and contain sections substantially
similar to that prescribed for ordinances, excluding those
requirements that pertain to the posting of ordinances and
ordinance summaries.

4. The Council may not impose a punishment, fine, or forfeiture by
resolution.

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
10

C. Memorials.

1. Memorials shall be adopted in the form of resolutions or motions,
as may be deemed appropriate, and shall be used as a statement of
policy to respond to or commend persons or groups for notable
activities which have been called to the attention of the Council.

2. Memorials may be considered and adopted at the same meeting in
which they have been proposed and, in all events, shall be
recorded in the minutes.

D. Policies, Procedures, Rules and Regulations.

1. Policies, procedures, rules and regulations shall be considered and
adopted in those matters determined to be appropriate by the
Council and not prohibited by statute.

2. Policies, procedures, rules and regulations shall be presented,
considered and given notice in the same manner as prescribed for
ordinances and shall be in such form as directed by the Council.

E. All resolutions, policies, procedures, rules, regulations and ordinances
shall be numbered, recorded and maintained in accordance with
provisions of state law.

2.04.190 Quorum

The number of Council members necessary to constitute a quorum is three.

2.04.200 Rules Of Order and Procedure-General
Procedural rules or order and procedure not specifically provided herein or by
state law, or Copperton ordinance, shall be regulated, interpreted and construed
in accordance with the Council's Rules of Order and Procedure as may be
adopted by resolution from time to time by the Council.

2.04.201 Board Appointment Duties and Responsibilities

Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of these

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
11

ordinances, of the plan, and of the laws of the state, the appointment and
reappointment of members of boards within the jurisdiction and under the
appointment or consent power of the Council shall be as herein provided.

A. All board appointments or reappointments of Council members shall be
made annually with the consent of a majority of the Council.

B. The following shall apply to board appointments involving individuals
who are not members of the Council:

1. Boards whose members hold terms of three years or less, board
members may be reappointed to a consecutive term on their
respective boards with the consent of a majority of the Council;
and

2. For boards whose members hold terms of longer than three years,
no board member shall be reappointed to a consecutive term on
the same board unless, for good cause shown and to prevent
significant disruption of current board activities, the Council
approves such reappointment.

The restrictions upon the reappointment of board members, as provided
under this section, shall be limited to the extent that this section may be
in direct conflict with federal or state law and where the appointment
of board members is set out by or limited under the laws of the United
States or the state of Utah.

C. When representing Copperton or the Council on any board or similar
organization, Council members shall vote according to the will of the
Council on those matters for which the Council has taken an official
position. In the absence of an official position by the Council, Council
members shall exercise their best judgment to determine how best to
vote in accordance with the best interests of Copperton.

Ordinance 2025-O-1 — Exhibit 1
12
