Docusign Envelope lD: C6C1 761 8-4DOF-48E98A44-1C35B79EEDEo




                                                    ORDINANCE 2025-0-02

                              Ordinance No. 2025-O-02                    Date: M:ay 21,2025

            AN ORDINANCE OF THE COPPERTON COUNCIL UPDATING SUBSECTION
            19,46.140 REGARDING THE INSTALLATION OF INFRASTRUCTURE AI\D
            PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS, SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATIONS ON EXAC.
            TIONS IN THE UTAH CODE


                                                              RECITALS
                   WHEREAS, the Town of Copperton is a municipality and has authority to adopt
            land use regulations, pursuant to Utah Code $ 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal
            Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section ga,IJtahCode; and

                    WHERBAS, the Council deems it necessary to update Subsection 19.46.140 re-
            garding the Town's requirements for building or land use permit applicants to provide curb,
            gutter, sidewalk, street, and urban hydrology improvements along the entire property line
            which abuts any public road or street in cases where it does not exist at municipal standards;
            and

                     WHEREAS, these improvement installation requirements are subject to the limita-
            tions on exactions in Utah Code; and

                    WHEREAS, the Copperton Planning Commission held a public hearing on May
             12th,2025 to consider amending Title 19 as set forth in Exhibit A (the "Proposedlction'i
            in accordance with Utah Code gg l0-9a-205and l0-9a-502; and

                   WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council amend
            its land use ordinances set forth in Exhibit A for the protection and preservation of the
            public health, safety and general welfare.

            BE IT ORDAINED BY THE coPPERToN TowN couNCIL as follows:

            l.      Adoption of Revisions. Section 19.46.140Infrastructure and Public Improve-
                    ments, is repealed in its entirety and amended to read as set forth in Exhibit A.

            2.      Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
                    Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or
                    specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder. which
                    shall continue in full force and effect.

            3.      Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be
                    needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, including but not
                    limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code $ 10-3-71 l; and (b) to
Docusign Envelope lD: C6C'17618-4D6F-4BE$8A44-1C35B79EEDE6




                       finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
                       non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener's, formatting, and numbering errors.

            4.         Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting pursuant
                       to Utah Code $ 10-3-712.

            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 21't day of May 2025.

             COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL


            K""ru
            Efs"daiTtlhyon, Mayor
             ATTEST:

            ,D:;pd*^-
            bantrgH,ittC'ct..t




             Voting:

             Council Member Bailey                     voting
             Council Member Clalton                    voting
             Council Member McCalmon                   voting
             Council Member Severson                   voting
             Council Member Stitzer                    voting




                 (C omplete as Applicable)




                 Date ordinance summary was posted to the Town of Copperton' website, the Utah Public
                 Notice we,bsite, and in a public place within the Town of Copperton per Utah Code $10-3-
                 7fi
                 Effective date of ordinance
Docusign Envelope lD: C6C176'l84D6F-48E9-8444-1C35B79EEDEo




                                                             EXHIBIT A

             19.46.140 Infrastructure and Public Improvements
             The minimum requirements for public improvements shallbe a combination of standards set
             forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places and applicable standards set forth in
             this Title or adopted in Copperton's Master Transportation Plan.
             A. Off-Site Improvements Required.
                 l. Off-Site Improvements. Subject to the essential link and rough proportionality tests for
                     exactions in Utah Code Section l0-9a-508, an applicant for a building or land use permit
                     for a dwelling, or a commercial or industrial use shall provide curb, gutter, sidewalk,
                     street, and urban hydrology improvements along the entire property line which abuts any
                     public road or street in cases where it does not exist at municipal standards.

                 2. Access to public right-of-ways. New and reconstructed vehicular entrances to the
                     property shallbe provided as required in Section 14.12.110. Height, location, structural
                     specifications, maximum and minimum cut radii and minimum roadway approach angles
                     to the centerline of the street are subject to the approval of the Municipal Engineering
                     Division.

                 3. Exceptions.
                    a. The planning commission may grant exception to the installation of the sidewalk in
                          industrial areas where the planning commission determines that the sidewalk is not
                          necessary to serve the public need, and the elimination of the sidewalk does not
                         jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare.

                     b. The planning commission may grant exception to the installation of curb, gutter and
                         sidewalk in rural or estate areas where topographic or other exceptional conditions
                         exist, provided that the public health, safety and welfare is preserved.

                     c. The planning commission may require the applicant to sign a delay agreement
                         binding the current and future property owner to pay for their share of any required
                         improvements that are installed by Copperton within l0 years of the waiver.

            B. Acceptance of Public Streets.
                 l. Street lighting shall either be chosen from the municipality's approved streetlight list or
                     installed to match a theme set by developments within the zone or neighborhood.
                2. Street lighting shall be installed in conformance with Title 18.
                3. Street Signs and Markers. Standard street name signs shall be installed at one corner of
                    all street intersections. The size, design, materials, location, fabrication, installation, and
                    maintenance of the signs and poles within the public right of way and elsewhere shall be
                    in accordance with the Utah Department of Transportation, the Manual of Uniform
                    Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways (MUTCD), or the municipality's
                    adopted policies, as applicable.
Docusign Envelope lD: C6C17618-4D6F-48E9-8A44-1C35B79EEDEo




            C. Private Streets.
                 l. Private streets or roads shall be designed and constructed to meet or exceed the public
                     street standards set forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places, as
                     applicable.
                     a. Private streets or roads are allowed in the following circumstances:
                         (l) If shown on an approved development plan as private streets;
                         (2) For multi-family developments; or
                         (3) For residential subdivisions where the street is equally shared between properties.
                             Such streets shall have a maintenance and operations plan included in the
                             declaration of covenants, conditions, and restrictions for the subdivision.

            D. Ingress and Egress Requirements. No building with human occupiable space may be erected
                 or enlarged on a parcel in any zone unless such parcel abuts upon or has access to a publicly
                 accepted and maintained street, a private driveway leading to an approved public street, a
                 private road, or a public or private alley.

            E. Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility. In all zones which require a front yard, no
                 obstruction to view in excess of three feet (3') in height may be placed on any corner lot
                 within a triangular area formed by the street property lines or right-of-way lines and a line
                 connecting them at points forty feet (40') from the intersection of the street lines, except
                 mature trees which are located in the clear sight triangle shall be pruned to a height of at least
                 seven feet (7') above the established sidewalk or street elevation.

                                   Figure 19.46.140 A: Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility.

                                                        F
                                                        lLl
                                                        t r.l                  ftGXrtrUitY
                                                        G            ..-          LIHE

                                                                                  EDGE Of
                                                                                 MVEMEI.'T

                                                                                 CLEAR SIGI{T
                                                       40'                        TRNNGLE


                                                                           -
                                                                t-


                                                                      4{l'          STREET
Docusign Envelope D: C6C1 761 8-4D6F-48E9-8A44-1 C35B79EEDE6
                 I




             F. Intersecting Streets and Driveways. In all zones, no view obstruction, including a sight-
                     obscuring fence, wall, sign, other similar structures, and landscaping which exceeds three
                     feet (3') in height shall be placed within a triangular area formed by a diagonal line
                     connecting lines located at the curb line or sidewalk line and driveway line ten feet (10')
                     from the projected intersection ofsuch lines.
                                    Figure 19.46.140 B: Intersecting Streets and Driveways.

                                                                                         I
                                                                                         t
                                                                                         ,
                                                                                         a

                                                                                         !
                                     PRIMARY
                                                *-4---.r                                 ,
                                     BUILDING                                            I
                                                                                         It
                                                                                         ,,
                                                                                          ,
                                                                                         t
                                 PROPERTY
                                   LlNE  / <                                                  *S|O8WALK
                               RIGHT.OF.WAY

            G. Acceptance of Private Streets. Prior to acceptance by the municipality, any private street, or
                 any driveway allowed for access with a development that is not constructed and maintained
                 to the municipality's adopted street standards shall be improved to the municipality's adopted
                 street standards.

            H. Driveways. A driveway shall be allowed for vehicular access according to the standards set
                 forth in Title l4 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places, and Chapter 19.48, Parking and
                 Mobility.
            I. Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility.
               l. Each lot shall have pedestrian walkways and sidewalks that provide connections between
                        the building entrances, neighboring building entrances, parking areas, open space, and
                        public trail. Such systems shall be designed to connect with all elements within the
                        development, adjacent areas, and transit stops and can include sidewalks along public or
                        private streets, wide outside travel lanes, bike lanes on roadways, and walkways and trails
                        in alternative locations as appropriate. Design, location, dimensions, dedications,
                        easements, and reservations shall conform to applicable municipal policies and standards
                        for sidewalks, bicycle routes, and trails.
                2. Walkways and trails shall be designed to maximize the safety of users and the security of
                        adjoining properties with respect to location, visibility, and landscaping.
                3. Bicycle Facilities. Bicycle facilities shall be provided in accordance with the standards
                        set forth in Chapter 19.48, Parking and Mobility.
Docusign Envelope lD: C6C1 761 8-4DOF-4BE9-8A44-1 C35B79EEDE6




                      SUMMARY OF COPPERTON TOWN ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-02

             On May 21, 2025, the Copperton Council enacted Ordinance No. 2024-0-02, updating
             Subsection 19.46.I40 regarding the installation of infrastructure and public improvements,
             subject to the limitations on exactions in the Utah Code.



            a;-b
            ffitlhyton,tutuyo.

             ATTEST


            aff;;tua,,.-
             ffiBffi1' .k

             Voting:

             Council Member Bailey                       voting
             Council Member Clayton                      voting
             Council Member McCalmon                     voting
             Council Member Severson                     voting
             Council Member Stitzer                      voting


             A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-0-02 is available in the office of the Copperton
             Recorder, 860 Levoy Dr., Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah.
