COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
RESOLUTION NO. 2017- Ol b-o)
DATE July 14, 2017

A RESOLUTION OF THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL

APPROVING AND AUTHORIZING AN INTERLOCAL COOPERATION

AGREEMENT BY AND BETWEEN SALT LAKE COUNTY AND THE

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP ALLOWING THE METRO TOWNSHIP TO

PARTICIPATE IN THE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT

AND HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS PROGRAMS FOR FEDERAL

FISCAL YEARS 2018 THROUGH 2020 AND SUCCESSIVE THREE (3) YEAR

PERIODS THEREAFTER

RECITALS

A. Salt Lake County (the "County") is a county existing pursuant to Article XI, Section 1 of
the Utah Constitution.

B. Copperton Metro Township (the "Metro Township") is a newly formed metro township
pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §§ 10-2a-401 et seq.

C. The County desires to enter into an interlocal agreement with the Metro Township,
allowing the Metro Township to participate in the Urban Community Development Block Grant
Program (“CDBG”) and Home Investment Partnerships Program (“HIP”) for the mutual benefit
of the County and the Metro Township.

D. The County and the Metro Township are “public agencies” as defined by the Utah
Interlocal Cooperation Act, Utah Code Annotated §§ 11-13-101 ef seg. (the "Interlocal
Cooperation Act"), allowing them to enter into such agreements.

E. The Metro Township also desires to enter into the interlocal agreement and participate in
the CDBG and HIP programs.

F. The interlocal agreement covers the federal fiscal year period of FY2018 to FY2020.

G. The interlocal agreement also allows the County and the Metro Township to renew the
agreement every three (3) years hereafter.

H. The attached interlocal agreement, hereto after known as ATTACHMENT A (the
"Interlocal Agreement") allows the Metro Township to become a participating member in the
County CDBG and HIP programs.

I. The Metro Township believes its participation with the County in CDBG and HIP is in
the best interests of the Metro Township’s residents.

J. In its duly noticed regular Council Meeting held on June 21, 2017, the Copperton Metro
Township Council discussed and approved the Interlocal Agreement and the execution thereof
and this Resolution is a memorialization of that action by the Copperton Metro Township Council
on that date,

RESOLUTION
NOW, THEREFORE, the Copperton Metro Township Council resolved on June 21, 2017 as
follows:

1. The Interlocal Agreement between Salt Lake County and Copperton Metro Township is
approved, in substantially the form attached hereto as ATTACHMENT A, and that the Chair of
the Copperton Metro Township is authorized to execute the same.

2. That the Interlocal Agreement will become effective as stated in the Interlocal Agreement.
DATED this 14th - ~ 2017.

Ron Patrick, Chats APPROVED AS TO FORM:

ATTEST: A buick C&P

METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

5 ‘ “fy0 q

Metro Township Clerk/Recorder

LIST OF MEMBERS AND VOTE

AT THE JUNE 21, 2017 COUNCIL MEETING

Council Member Bailey voting Aye

Council Member Baxter voting Aye

Council Member Clayton voting Aye

Council Member Patrick voting Aye

Council Member Stitzer voting Aye

ATTACHMENT A
Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
between Salt Lake County and Copperton Metro Township

Salt Lake County Contract No. BV043108
District Atty No. 17-08502
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
between
SALT LAKE COUNTY
and
CITY OF MILLCREEK, COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP, EMIGRATION CANYON
METRO TOWNSHIP, KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP AND
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
relating to the conduct of
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT
AND
HOME INVESTMENT PARTNERSHIPS
PROGRAMS
for FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2018 THROUGH 2020
and successive 3 year periods thereafter

THIS AGREEMENT is entered into and shall be effective as of , 2017, by and
between Salt Lake County, Utah (the "County"), a body corporate and politic of the state of
Utah, and City of Millcreek, a municipal corporation of the state of Utah located in Salt Lake
County and Copperton Metro Township, Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Kearns Metro
Township, Magna Metro Township and White City Metro Township, each one of which are
metro townships of the state of Utah located in Salt Lake County, for ease of definition the City
and Townships will be collectively called (the "Cities").

RECITALS
A. In 1974 the U.S. Congress enacted the Housing and Community Development Act of
1974, as since amended (42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq.), and in 1990 the U.S. Congress enacted the
Cranston-Gonzales National Affordable Housing Act, as since amended (42U.S.C.12701 et seq.)
collectively (the "Act "), permitting and providing for the participation of the United States
government in a wide range of local housing and community development activities and
programs of the Act which activities and programs are administered by the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (“HUD”).
B. The primary objective of the Act is the development of viable urban communities and
access by every resident to decent housing, shelter and ownership opportunity regardless of
income or minority status, by providing decent housing and a suitable living environment and
expanding economic opportunities, principally for persons of low and moderate income, with
this objective to be accomplished by the federal government providing financial assistance
pursuant to the Act in the form of community development block grant (“CDBG”) and HOME
Investment Partnerships (“HOME”) Program funds to state and local governments to be used in
the conduct and administration of housing, shelter and community development activities and
projects as contemplated by the primary objectives of the Act (the “CDBG and HOME
programs”).
C. To implement the policies, objectives and other provisions of the Act, HUD has issued
rules and regulations governing the conduct of the CDBG and HOME programs, published in 24
Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Part 92 and Part 570 (the “Regulations”, which regulations
provide that a county may qualify as an “urban county,” as defined in Section 570.3 of the
Regulations, and thereby become eligible to receive entitlement grants from HUD for the

conduct of CDBG program activities and HOME program activities as an urban county and that
cities and other units of general local governments in the same metropolitan statistical area that
do not or cannot qualify for separate entitlement grants may be included as a part of the urban
county by entering into cooperation agreements with the urban county in accordance with the
requirements of the Regulations.
D. The County has heretofore qualified under the Regulations as an urban county and has
received CDBG program funds from HUD by annual grant agreements since the inception of the
CDBG Program in 1974, and has received HOME program funds since 1993. All of the
municipalities located in the County which do not receive separate community development
entitlement grants have been and will continue to be included as a part of the County in its
CDBG and HOME programs.
E. In 1981, and again since then, HUD amended the Regulations, pursuant to amendments
of the Act, revising the qualification period for urban counties by providing that the qualification
by HUD of an urban county shall remain effective for three successive federal fiscal years
regardless of changes in its population during that period, except for failure of an urban county to
receive a grant during any year of that period, and also providing that during the three-year
period of qualification, no included city or other unit of general local government may withdraw
from nor be removed from the urban county for HUD’s grant computation purposes, and no city
or other unit of general local government covering an additional area may be added to the urban
county during that three-year period except where permitted by HUD regulations.
F, In 1993, as part of the three-year qualification process, the County entered into an
interlocal cooperation agreement (the “1993 Agreement”) with the then existing municipalities
3

within Salt Lake County that did not receive separate CDBG and HOME program entitlement
grants. The 1993 Agreement provided for an initial three year term with successive three year
terms corresponding with HUD qualification periods, up to a maximum term of 50 years.
G. At the time the 1993 Agreement was executed, Herriman City, Holladay City, and
Cottonwood Heights City were not incorporated cities and were part of the unincorporated
county. In order to ensure participation in the urban county, the County, Herriman City,
Holladay City, and Cottonwood Heights City entered into the 2006 Agreement authorizing the
County to undertake or to assist in undertaking essential community development and housing
assistance activities within the Cities as may be specified in the “Final Statement of Community
Development Objectives and Projected Use of Funds” (the “Final Statement”) to be submitted to
HUD annually by the County to receive its annual CDBG and HOME entitlement grants.
H. At the time the 2006 Agreement was executed, City of Millcreek, Copperton Metro
Township, Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Kearns Metro Township, Magna Metro
Township and White City Metro Township were not incorporated and were part of the
unincorporated county. The City of Millcreek, Copperton Metro Township, Emigration Canyon
Metro Township, Kearns Metro Township, Magna Metro Township and White City Metro
Township were incorporated in January 2017. The County recognizes and understands that it
does not have independent legal authority to conduct some kinds of community development and
housing assistance activities within the boundaries of an incorporated city without that city’s
approval. In order to ensure participation by the Cities in the urban county and as part of the
fiscal year 2018-2020 urban county qualification process, the County and the Cities are required
to enter into this interlocal agreement authorizing the County to undertake or to assist in

4

undertaking essential community development and housing assistance activities within the Cities
as may be specified in the “Final Statement of Community Development Objectives and
Projected Use of Funds” (the “Final Statement”) to be submitted to HUD annually by the County
to receive its annual CDBG and HOME entitlement grants.
I. Under general provisions of Utah law governing contracting between governmental
entities and by virtue of specific authority granted in the Utah Interlocal Cooperation Act,
Section 11-13-101 et seg., Utah Code Ann. (2016), any two or more public agencies may enter
into agreements with one another for joint or cooperative action, or for other purposes authorized
by law.
J. Accordingly, the County and the Cities have determined that it will be mutually
beneficial and in the public interest to enter into this interlocal cooperation agreement regarding
the conduct of the County’s CDBG and HOME Program,

THEREFORE, in consideration of the promises and the cooperative actions contemplated
hereunder, the parties agree as follows:
1. A fully executed copy of this interlocal cooperation agreement (the “agreement”),
together with the approving resolutions of the Cities and the County, shall be submitted to HUD
by the County as part of its qualification documentation. The Cities hereby give the County the
authority to carry out CDBG and HOME Program activities and projects within the Cities’
respective municipal boundaries. By entering into this agreement with the County, the Cities
shall be included as a part of the urban county for CDBG and HOME program qualification and
grant calculation purposes. The period of performance of this agreement shall cover three
CDBG and HOME Program years beginning July 1, 2018 and ending June 30, 2021 and

5

successive 3-year periods thereafter. Each City will participate for the next three program years,
and for each successive 3-year period thereafter up to a maximum term of 26 years, which shall
result in this agreement having the same ultimate termination date as the 1993 Agreement.
Subject to the termination provisions set forth in Paragraph 13, below, a City may terminate its
participation in the agreement by giving written notice to the County prior to the commencement
of the next 3-year period; provided, however, that this agreement will remain in effect until the
CDBG and HOME funds and income received in the 3-year period then in effect are expended
and the funded activities completed. As provided in Section 570.307 of the Regulations, the
qualification of the County as an urban county shall remain effective for the entire 3-year period
in effect regardless of changes in its population during that period of time, and the parties agree
that a City or Cities may not withdraw from nor be removed from inclusion in the urban county
for HUD's grant computation purposes during that 3-year period. Prior to the beginning of each
succeeding qualification period, by the date specified in HUD’s urban county qualification notice
for the next qualification period, the County shall notify each City in writing of its right not to
participate and shall send of copy of such notice to the HUD field office by the date specified in
the urban county qualification schedule issued for that period.
2. The Cities and the County shall cooperate in the development and selection of CDBG and
HOME program activities and projects to be conducted or performed in the Cities during each of
the three program years and for each successive 3- year covered by this agreement. The Cities
understand and agree, however, that the County shall have final responsibility for selecting the
CDBG and HOME program activities and projects to be included in each annual grant request
and for annually filing the Final Statements with HUD.
6

3. The Cities recognize and understand that the County, as a qualified urban county, will be
the entity required to execute all grant agreements received from HUD pursuant to the County's
annual requests for CDBG and HOME program funds and that as the grantee under the CDBG
and HOME programs it will be held by HUD to be legally liable and responsible for the overall
administration and performance of the annual CDBG and HOME programs, including the
projects and activities to be conducted in the Cities. By executing the agreement, the Cities
understand that they (1) may not apply for grants under the Small Cities or State CDBG
Programs from appropriations for fiscal years during the period in which they are participating in
the urban county's CDBG program; and (2) may not participate in a HOME consortium except
through the urban county, regardless of whether the urban county receives a HOME formula
allocation. Accordingly, the Cities agree that as to all projects and activities performed or
conducted in the Cities under any CDBG or HOME program grant agreement received by the
County which includes the Cities, that the County shall have the ultimate supervisory and
administrative control.
4. The Cities shall cooperate fully with the County in all CDBG and HOME program efforts
planned and performed hereunder. The Cities agree to allow the County to undertake or assist
in undertaking, essential community development and housing assistance activities within the
Cities as may be approved and authorized in the County's CDBG and HOME grant agreements,
including the Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy (“CHAS”). The Cities and the
County also agree to cooperate to undertake, or assist in the undertaking, community renewal
and lower income housing assistance activities, specifically, urban renewal and publicly assisted
housing, as they may be planned and specified in the County's Final Statements submitted

7

annually to HUD for the expenditure of CDBG and HOME funds granted to the County for such
activities.
5. The Cities understand that it will be necessary for the Cities to enter into separate project
agreements or sub-grants in writing with the County with respect to the actual conduct of the
projects and activities approved for performance in the Cities and that the funds designated in the
County's Final Statements for those projects and activities will also be funded to the City under
those separate project agreements or subgrants. Subject to the provisions of Paragraph 3 above,
the Cities will administer and control the performance of the projects and activities specified in
those separate project agreements, will be responsible for the expenditure of the funds allocated
for each such project or activity, and will conduct and perform the projects and activities in
compliance with the Regulations and all other applicable federal laws and requirements relating
to the CDBG and HOME programs. The Cities also understand and agree that, pursuant to 24
CFR 570.501(b), they are subject to the same requirements applicable to subrecipients, including
the requirement of a written agreement as described in 24 CF570.503. Prior to disbursing any
CDBG or HOME program to any subrecipients, the Cities shall enter into written agreements
with such subrecipients in compliance with 24 CFR 570.503 (CDBG) and 24 CFR 92.504
(HOME) of the Regulations.
6. All CDBG and HOME program funds that are approved by HUD for expenditure under
the County's grant agreements for the three Program years covered by this agreement and its
extensions, including those that are identified for projects and activities in the Cities, will be
budgeted and allocated to the specific projects and activities described and listed in the County's
Final Statement submitted annually to HUD and those allocated funds shall be used and
8

expended only for the projects or activities to which the funds are identified. No project or

activity, or the amount of funding allocated for such project or activity, may be changed,

modified, substituted or deleted by a City without the prior written approval of the County and

the approval of HUD when that approval is required by the Regulations.

7, Each City agrees to do all things that are appropriate and required of it to comply

with the applicable provisions of the grant agreements received by the County from HUD,

the provisions of the Act, and all Rules and Regulations, guidelines, circulars and other

requisites promulgated by the various federal departments, agencies, administrations and

commissions relating to the CDBG and HOME programs. The Cities and the County agree

that failure by them to adopt an amendment to the agreement incorporating all changes

necessary to meet the requirements for cooperation agreements set forth in the Urban County

Qualification Notice applicable for a subsequent three-year qualification period, and to

submit the amendment to HUD as provided in the urban county qualification notice, will void

the automatic renewal of such qualification period. In addition the Cities and the County shall

take all actions necessary to assure compliance with the certification required of the County

by Section 104(b) of Title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 as

amended, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Fair Housing Act, Section 109 of Title

I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 and other applicable laws and to

affirmatively further fair housing. In addition, the parties understand and agree that the

County may not provide any CDBG funding for activities in or in support of any City that

does not affirmatively further fair housing within its jurisdiction, or that impedes the County's

actions to comply with its fair housing certification. LL v4

8. Each City affirms that it has adopted and is enforcing or will adopt and enforce: 4s 7/, /, jf 7
9 Me Tash

(a) a policy prohibiting the use of excessive force by law enforcement agencies
within its jurisdiction against any individuals engaged in non-violent civil rights demonstrations;
and

(b) a policy of enforcing applicable State and local laws against physically barring
entrance to or exit from a facility or location which is the subject of such non-violent civil rights
demonstrations within its jurisdiction.

9. During the period of performance of this agreement as provided in Paragraph 1, each City
shall:

(a) Report and pay to the County any program income, as defined in 24 CFR
570.500(a) for the CDBG program and 24 CFR 92.2 for the HOME program, received by the
City, or retain and use that program income subject to and in accordance with the applicable
program requirements and the provisions of the separate CDBG and HOME project agreements
that will be entered into between the City and the County for the actual conduct of the CDBG
and HOME programs,

(b) Keep appropriate records regarding the receipt of, use of, or disposition of all
program income and make reports thereon to the County as will be required under the separate
CDBG and HOME project agreements between the City and the County, and

(c) Pay over to the County any program income that may be on hand in the event of
close-out or change in status of the City or that may be received subsequent to the close-out or
change in status as will be provided for in the separate CDBG and HOME project agreements
mentioned above.

10. The separate CDBG project agreements or sub-grants that will be entered into between
10

the County and the Cities for the conduct of the CDBG Program, as mentioned and referred to
elsewhere in this agreement, shall include provisions setting forth the standards which shall
apply to any real property acquired or improved by the Cities in whole or in part using CDBG
Program funds. These standards will require the Cities to:

(a) Notify the County in a timely manner of any modification or change in the use of
that property from the use planned at the time of the acquisition or improvement and this notice
requirements shall include any disposition of such property.

(b) Reimburse the County in an amount equal to the current fair market value of
property acquired or improved with CDBG Program funds (less any portion thereof attributable
to expenditures of non-CDBG funds) that is sold or transferred for a use which does not qualify
under the Regulations, and

(c) Pay over to the County any Program income that is generated from the disposition
or transfer of property either prior to or subsequent to any close-out, change of status or
termination of this cooperation agreement or any separate project agreement that is applicable.
11. | References within this agreement to the “Cities” should not be interpreted as a
requirement for the Cities to act collectively. Each City is a separate party to this agreement and
is subject to its terms and provisions without regard to the actions or omissions of any other City.
12. Any changes and modifications to this agreement shall be made in writing, shall be
executed by both parties prior to the performance of any work or activity involved in the change
and be approved by HUD if necessary to comply with the Regulations.

13. This agreement shall be and remain in force and effect for the period of performance
specified in Paragraph 1. When the County has been qualified by HUD as an urban county for a
11

particular 3 year qualification period, neither the County nor any City may terminate this
agreement or withdraw therefrom during that 3 year qualification period of performance;
provided, however, if the County fails to qualify as an urban county or does not receive CDBG
or HOME funding in any year of the three Program years for which it has qualified, or if any
federal legislation should change the qualification or entitlement status of the County or any
City, the County may terminate this agreement in whole or any City may withdraw from this
agreement, subject to the termination provisions set forth in Paragraph 1.
14. —‘ If the County qualifies as an urban county and the City is included, during the three
Program years for which the County has qualified, the parties agree not to veto or otherwise
obstruct the implementation of the approved Comprehensive Housing Affordability Strategy
(CHAS) during that three year period and for such additional time as may be required for the
expenditure of CHAS funds granted for that period.
15. A unit of general local government may not sell, trade, or otherwise transfer all or any
portion of such funds to another such metropolitan city, urban county, unit of general local
government, or Indian tribe, or insular area that directly or indirectly receives CDBG funds in
exchange for any other funds, credits or non-Federal considerations, but must use such funds for
activities eligible under title I of the Act. Found in the Transportation, Housing and Urban
Development, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014, Pub. L. 113-76.
16. The following provisions are also integral parts of this Agreement:

(a) Binding Agreement. This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the
benefit of the successors and assigns of the respective Parties hereto.

12

(b) Captions. The headings used in this Agreement are inserted for reference purposes
only and shall not be deemed to define, limit, extend, describe, or affect in any way the meaning,
scope or interpretation of any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement or the intent hereof.

(c) Counterparts. This Agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts with
the same effect as if the signatures upon any counterpart were upon the same instrument. All
signed counterparts shall be deemed to be one original. A duly executed original counterpart
of this Agreement shall be filed with the keeper of records of each Party pursuant to Section 11-
13-209 of the Interlocal Act.

(d) Severability. The provisions of this Agreement are severable, and should any
provision hereof be void, voidable, unenforceable or invalid, such void, voidable, unenforceable
or invalid provision shall not affect the other provisions of this Agreement.

(e) Waiver of Breach. Any waiver by either party of any breach of any kind or character
whatsoever by the other, whether such be direct or implied, shall not be construed as a continuing
waiver of or consent to any subsequent breach of this Agreement.

(f) Cumulative Remedies. The rights and remedies of the Parties shall be construed
cumulatively, and none of such rights and remedies shall be exclusive of, or in lieu or limitation
of, any other right, remedy or priority allowed by law.

(g) Amendment. This Agreement may not be modified except by an instrument in
writing signed by the Parties hereto.

(h) Time of Essence. Time is of the essence in this Agreement.

(i) Interpretation. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed and enforced
according to the substantive laws of the state of Utah and ordinances of Salt Lake County.

13

Gj) Notice. Any notice or other communication required or permitted to be given
hereunder shall be deemed to have been received (a) upon personal delivery or actual receipt
thereof or (b) within three (3) days after such notice is deposited in the United States mail, postage
prepaid and certified and addressed to the Parties at their respective addresses.

(k) No Interlocal Entity. The Parties agree that they do not by this Agreement create an
interlocal entity.

(1) Joint Board. As required by Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-207, the Parties agree that
any cooperative undertaking under this Agreement shall be administered by a joint board
consisting of the County’s designee and the Cities designee.

(m) Financing Joint Cooperative Undertaking and Establishing Budget. If there is to
be financing of cooperative undertaking a budget shall be established or maintained as stated
herein.

(n) Manner of Acquiring, Holding or Disposing of Property. In satisfaction of Section
11-13-207(2) of the Interlocal Act, the Parties agree that the acquisition, holding, and

disposition of real and personal property acquired pursuant to this Agreement shall be governed
by the provisions of applicable law.

(0) Exhibits and Recitals. The Recitals set forth above and all exhibits to this
Agreement are incorporated herein to the same extent as if such items were set forth herein in their
entirety within the body of this Agreement.

(p) Attorney Approval. This Agreement shall be submitted to the authorized attorneys
for the County and the Cities for approval in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 11-13-202.5.

(q) Governmental Immunity. All Parties are governmental entities under the

14

Governmental Immunity Act, Utah Code Ann. § 63G-7-101, et seq., therefore, consistent with
the terms of the Act, the Parties agree that each Party is responsible and liable for any wrongful
or negligent acts which it commits or which are committed by its agents, officials, or employees.
The Parties do not waive any defenses or limits of liability otherwise available under the
Governmental Immunity Act and all other applicable law, and the Parties maintain all privileges,
immunities, and other rights granted by the Act and all other applicable law.

(r) Assignment. The Cities agree they shall not subcontract, assign, or transfer any
rights or duties under this Agreement to any other party or agency without the prior written
consent of the County.

(s) Ethical Standards. The Parties hereto represent that they have not: (a) provided
an illegal gift or payoff to any officer or employee, or former officer or employee, or to any
relative or business entity of an officer or employee, or relative or business entity of a former
officer or employee of the other Party hereto; (b) retained any person to solicit or secure this
contract upon an agreement or understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or
contingent fee, other than bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies established for
the purpose of securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards set forth in State
statute or Salt Lake County’s Ethics, Gifts and Honoraria ordinance (Chapter 2.07, Salt Lake
County Code of Ordinances); or (d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promise that they will not
knowingly influence, any officer or employee or former officer or employee to breach any of the
ethical standards set forth in State statute, Salt Lake County ordinances.

15

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this agreement to be duly
authorized and executed by each City on the date specified on the respective signature pages and
by the County on the day of , 2017.

16

SIGNATURE PAGE FOR SALT LAKE COUNTY
TO
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
AND HOME PROGRAM
FOR
FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2018-2020 AND
SUCCESSIVE THREE YEAR PERIODS THEREAFTER
SALT LAKE COUNTY
By:
Mayor or Designee
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND
AS COMPATIBLE WITH STATE LAW
Salt Lake County District Attorney
Deputy District Attorney
17

SIGNATURE PAGE FOR CITY OF MILLCREEK
TO
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
AND HOME PROGRAM
FOR
FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2018-2020 AND
SUCCESSIVE THREE YEAR PERIODS THEREAFTER
CITY OF MILLCREEK
By:
Its:
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND AS COMPATIBLE WITH STATE LAW
City of Millcreek Attorney
18

SIGNATURE PAGE FOR COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
TO
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
AND HOME PROGRAM
FOR
FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2018-2020 AND
SUCCESSIVE THREE YEAR PERIODS THEREAFTER
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
By: i Ly an
Its: ENairstin: = oe
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND AS COMPATIBLE WITH STATE LAW
ijutit Metro Township Attorney Date
19

SIGNATURE PAGE FOR EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
TO
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
AND HOME PROGRAM
FOR
FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2018-2020 AND
SUCCESSIVE THREE YEAR PERIODS THEREAFTER
EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP
By:
Its:
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND AS COMPATIBLE WITH STATE LAW
Emigration Canyon Metro Township Attorney Date
20

SIGNATURE PAGE FOR KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
TO
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
AND HOME PROGRAM
FOR
FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2018-2020 AND
SUCCESSIVE THREE YEAR PERIODS THEREAFTER
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
By:
Its:
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND AS COMPATIBLE WITH STATE LAW
Kearns Metro Township Attorney Date
21

SIGNATURE PAGE FOR MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
TO
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
AND HOME PROGRAM
FOR
FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2018-2020 AND
SUCCESSIVE THREE YEAR PERIODS THEREAFTER
MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP
By:
Its:
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND AS COMPATIBLE WITH STATE LAW
Magna Metro Township Attorney Date
22

SIGNATURE PAGE FOR WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
TO
INTERLOCAL COOPERATION AGREEMENT
COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
AND HOME PROGRAM
FOR
FEDERAL FISCAL YEARS 2018-2020 AND
SUCCESSIVE THREE YEAR PERIODS THEREAFTER
WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
By:
Its:
APPROVED AS TO FORM AND AS COMPATIBLE WITH STATE LAW
| White City Metro Township Attorney Date
23

ATTACHMENT
to the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement between Salt Lake County and City of Millcreek,
Copperton Metro Township, Emigration Canyon Metro Township, Kearns Metro Township,
Magna Metro Township and White City Metro Township, dated , 2017
relating to the Conduct of Community Development Block Grant and HOME Partnerships
Programs for Federal Fiscal Years 2018 through 2020 and successive 3 year periods thereafter.
STATEMENT OF LEGAL COUNSEL
FOR SALT LAKE COUNTY, UTAH
TO: Mayor Ben McAdams
FROM: Office of the Salt Lake County District Attorney
RE: Statement Required by HUD regarding the above Interlocal Cooperation
Agreement (“Agreement”)
DATE: , 2017
I have reviewed the foregoing Agreement and based on that review it is my opinion that the
terms, conditions and other provisions thereof are fully authorized under state and local law and
that the Agreement provides full legal authority for the County to undertake or assist in
undertaking essential community development and housing assistance activities, specifically,
urban renewal and publicly assisted housing in cooperation with the above designated Cities
pursuant to the Agreement.
Salt Lake County District Attorney
)

Craig Wangsgard

Deputy District Attorney

Civil Division

24
