ORDINANCE 2025-0-0%
S-0-O
Ordinance No Ga, 0-8 Date: December IT 2025
AN ORDINANCE OF THE COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL AMENDING
TITLE 18 SUBDIVISIONS AND TITLE 19 ZONING TO: ELIMINATE
RECLAMATION BOND REQUIREMENTS; BRING PERFORMANCE
AND WARRANTY BOND PROCEDURES, AND FINAL DISPOSITION
AND RELEASE REQUIREMENTS INTO COMPLIANCE WITH RECENT
LEGISLATION; ELIMINATE FEES IN LIEU OF THE INSTALLATION
OF SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS; ELIMINATE THE
REQUIREMENT FOR ANY ENTITY TO SIGN CONSTRUCTION PLANS,
THEREBY SUBJECTING AN APPLICANT TO REQUIREMENTS NOT
ADOPTED BY COPPERTON IN VIOLATION OF UTAH CODE;
ELIMINATE LANGUAGE ALLOWING THE CITY TO WITHHOLD
PERMITS OR OCCUPANCY FOR THE FAILURE TO INSTALL
PRIVATE LANDSCAPING; AMENDING THE SIDE AND REAR YARD
SETBACKS IN THE MANUFACTURING ZONES; AND ADDING OR
CLARIFYING DEFINITIONS FOR "ANIMAL RIGHTS",
"ALTERATION", "CLUSTERING", “DRIVE APPROACH”,
“DRIVEWAY”, DRIVEWAY, CROSS ACCESS”, “DRIVEWAY,
MULTIFAMILY”, ‘DRIVEWAY, PRIVATE”, “DRIVEWAY, SHARED”,
“DWELLING”, "EXPANSION", "GRADING", “HARD SURFACE”,
NATURAL OPEN SPACE", "NET DEVELOPABLE ACREAGE",
“PAVEMENT”, “PAVED, ROAD, PRIVATE”, “PORTABLE STORAGE
CONTAINER”, “RECREATIONAL VEHICLE”, “RESIDENTIAL
ROADWAY”, "RETAINING WALL", "SITE PLAN", "SLOPE",
"STREAM, EPHEMERAL", "STREAM, PERENNIAL", "STREAM
CORRIDOR", “STREAT, PRIVATE”, "SUBSTANTIAL ECONOMIC
HARDSHIP", "'UNDEVELOPABLE", AND "WAIVER"
RECITALS
WHEREAS, Copperton is a municipality and has authority to adopt land use
regulations, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal
Land Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code; and
WHEREAS, House Bill 368 was adopted by the Utah Legislature during its
2025 regular session, mandating that cities no longer require improvement

completion assurances to be posted prior to constructing subdivision improvements
unless the developer wants to record the final subdivision plat prior to constructing
those improvements; and

WHEREAS, House Bill 368 mandated that cities revise their policies on
inspecting and releasing improvement completion assurances; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code precludes cities from extending the warranty period
for improvement completion assurances for more than one year; and

WHEREAS, under House Bill 368 fees in lieu are no longer a workable
alternative to installing required public improvements; and

WHEREAS, mandating that a water master signs a set of construction plans
that an applicant must build to has the effect of subjecting an applicant to standards
that are not adopted by Copperton, and is therefore contrary to Utah Code Utah Code
10-9a 509(1)(g); and

WHEREAS, House Bill 368 precludes the city from holding or revoking
building permits and certificates of occupancy from an applicant based on the failure
of the applicant to install landscaping; and

WHEREAS, The existing side and rear yard setbacks in the Manufacturing
Zones are excessive when located in a manufacturing district or adjacent to other
manufacturing, industrial, or warehousing uses; and

WHEREAS, Where manufacturing, industrial or warehousing uses are
proposed adjacent to zones that are primarily residential or commercial, due to the
incompatibility of uses, a substantial setback is appropriate; and

WHEREAS, Where buildings are allowed within five feet of a property line,
drainage must still be routed to stormwater facilities on the subject parcel; and

WHEREAS, Clear definitions of the words and phrases used in titles 18 and
19 are essential to administering those titles; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has held a public hearing and
recommended that the Council amend its land use ordinances to comply with Utah
Code, to clarify its legislative intent, and the public health, safety and general
welfare.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL as follows:
1. Chapter 18.16 Performance Bonds, is hereby adopted as set forth in Exhibit

A.

D, Section 18.14.150 Open Ditches and Canals, is hereby adopted as set forth in
Exhibit B.

ci Section 19.50.190 Enforcement of Landscape Regulations, is hereby adopted
as set forth in Exhibit C.

4. Section 19.34.030 Required Yards and Setbacks in Manufacturing Zones, is
hereby adopted as set forth in Exhibit E.

5s Section 19.04.020 General Definitions and Section 19.04.030 Site Develop-
ment Definitions, are hereby adopted as set forth in Exhibit F.

6. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of
this Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordi-
nance, or specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the re-
mainder, which shall continue in full force and effect.

7; Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may
be needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, includ-
ing but not limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-
711; and (b) to finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not
limited to making non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting,
and numbering errors.

8. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting
pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-712.

PASSED AND ADOPTED this {\* day of Decemloer- 2025.

COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL

EX N ae

By: Sean g layton-Mayor

ATTEST

pe Baun, Recorder

Voting:

Council Member (*| cui voting AQ

Council Member Bailey voting PROT

Council Member Urtalmor) _ voting CUJO

Council Member S@vuxsn) voting OW

Council Member Sht7 voting Ou.
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was posted to the Utah Public Notice website, and in a public place
within Copperton Town per Utah Code §10-3-711: ] eLeM yer 11,2025
Effective date of ordinance: D2 Ctm he Nt I), 20729

SUMMARY OF
COPPERTON TOWN
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-0&
On December 1. 2025, the Copperton Town Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-O- S
amending Chapter 18.16, and Sections 18.14.150, and 19.50.190 of Copperton Code to:
eliminate reclamation bond requirements; bring performance and warranty bond
procedures, and final disposition and release requirements into compliance with recent
legislation; eliminate fees in lieu of the installation of subdivision improvements; eliminate
the requirement for any entity to sign construction plans, thereby subjecting an applicant
to requirements not adopted by Copperton in violation of Utah Code; and eliminate
language allowing the City to withhold permits or occupancy for the failure to install
private landscaping.
/\\
By: Seay Clayten-Mayor
ATTEST ApP -~
Diana Baun, Recorder Nathan Bracken, CitNAttor eg
Voting:
Council Member (\au ton voting
Council Member Batley voting BUT
Council Member Metalmofvoting OA
Council Member Sevevsor) voting
Council Member Gyizer__ voting
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 101S-0-0& is available in the office of the
Copperton Recorder, 860 W. Levoy Dr., Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah.

EXHIBIT A

CHAPTER 18.16 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES

18.16.010 Performance Guarantee Required

A. Wherever a performance guarantee is required under the terms of this Title, the per-
formance guarantee shall be submitted:

1. In conformance with this Chapter; and

2. Prior to the commencement of any improvements covered by the performance
guarantee.

18.16.020 Performance Bonds

A. Prior to the recording of a plat or conducting any development activity, in lieu of actual

| completion of the improvements listed in this Title, subdividersapplicants may file with

Planning and Development Services a performance bond to assure actual construc-

tion of such improvements within a one-year period after the recording of the plat.

B. If the applicant elects to post a performance bond in lieu of completing the improve-
ments prior to the recording of the final plat, the applicant shall provide a performance
bond for:

1. The completion of one hundred percent (100%) of the required improvements, or

2. If the Municipal Engineering Division has inspected and accepted a portion of the
required improvements, one hundred percent (100%) of the incomplete or unac-
cepted improvements.

C. The amount of the performance bond for public improvements such as curb, gutter,
sidewalk, road construction and surfacing, flood control and fire hydrants shatt-may
not exceed the sum of.

1. One hundred percent (100%) of the estimated cost of the infrastructure improve-
ments asbe established by (1) the Municipal Engineering Division's estimated cost
of completion_or (ii) a licensed contractor's bid:- and

3:2. Ten percent (10%) of the amount of the bond to cover administrative costs in-
curred by the City to complete the improvements.

G-D. _The performance bond shall also secure any required improvements on individual
lots within the subdivision which are required in this Chapter.

B-E. The performance bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement,
or an irrevocable letter of credit from a financial institution located in the State of Utah.
£-F. A performance bond agreement shall be entered into by the Municipal Engineering

Division Planning-and-Develepment Services-and the subdividerapplicant:

1. The performance bond agreement shall include a provision that the performance
bond shall expire within thirteen (13) months from the date issued if the bonded

| improvements are not completed, and that the Municipal Engineer Directer-can
grant an extension(s) of this period upon a showing of good cause.

2. If the project has not been completed by that date, then the performance bond
shall be considered foreclosed upon.

3. If the project is not timely completed, all remaining funds shall be thereafter remit-
ted to the Municipal Engineering Division Plianning-andDevelopment Semices-Dt
yvision-as set forth in the performance bond agreement.

4. The 13-month period in subsection (F)(1) may be extended only if special circum-
stances warrant an extension, as determined by the Director-after consultation with
the-Municipal Engineering-Division.

) has-been-satisfactorily-completed_except that net less-than-ten- percent (40%)-of the ee eo aianal siaeel sails saaaanl wal ‘ihe om a ce aa 169 “2th

j a Nod.

G. The Birecteor-or-designeeMunicipal Engineer may establish objective procedures con-
sistent with this Section relating to the administration of performance bonds, including
fund management, default and collection.

18.16.030 Final Disposition and Release

A. Upon completion of the work for which a performance bond has been posted, including
warranty work related thereto, the developer shall submit to the Municipal Engineering
DivisionDirecter-or-designee_one-copy of a written request for release.

A.B. A performance bond may be partially released if the infrastructure improvement
category to which it relates has been satisfactorily completed, except that not less
than ten percent (10%) of the performance bond shall be retained to ensure comple-
tion of the entire performance which shall be in addition to the 10% that must be re-
tained as a warranty for all bonded improvements that have been installed.

C. After receipt-efthe-notice-and request under Subsection A-cHhis Section mithin-five ecein S he-notice-and+reaue 4HASe SubsectionA-e bi Section. ithin =
{5}-days4The Municipal Engineering Division shall accept or reject the improvements

within fifteen (15) days after receiving an applicant's written request under Subsection

(A), Notwithstanding the foregoing, if inspection of the subdivision improvements dur-

ing that fifteen (15) day period is impeded by winter weather conditions such that a full

and complete inspection of the improvement or warranty work is not reasonably pos-
sible. the Municipal Engineering Division shall within a reasonable time thereafter.

1. Notify the applicant in writing before the end of the applicable time period described
in Subsection described in Subsection C that, because of winter weather condi-
tions. the land use authority will require additional time to accept or reject the per-
formance of warranty work; and

4.2. Complete the inspection of the performance of warranty work and provide the
applicant with an acceptance or rejection as soon as practicable.

B.D. The Municipal Engineer Directer-or-designee-shall receive-the-repert-and within
sevenZ)-days-ef-theinspectionauthorize release of a portion of the performance
bond corresponding to the work completed and approved if the Municipal Engineering
Division finds, based on objective inspection standards, that the condition of the im-
provements is satisfactory.

E. The portion of the bond te_which may be held as a durability-warranty bond under
Sections 18.16.050 and 18.16.060 of this Chapter may not be released until the dura-
bility-warranty period for all of the approved subdivision improvement plans has ex-
pired and an inspection has been conducted by the Municipal Engineering Division
that finds, based on objective inspection standards, that the condition of the improve-
ments is satisfactory.

1. An applicant may request that the ten percent (10%) of the performance bond held
as a warranty be released if they have first posted a separate warranty bond prior
to that release.

42. _In lieu of posting a separate warranty bond, the applicant may choose to au-
thorize the municipality to hold ten percent (10%) of the performance bond for the
duration of the warranty period.

C-F. _A bond may not be released if —after-consultingwiththe-Municipal_ Engineering
Division_the-Directerthe Municipal Engineer:

1. Finds that the installation of required subdivision improvements does not meet the
City’s adopted standards or if the condition of material or workmanship shows un-
usual depreciation or does not comply with the acceptable standards of durability;

2. Finds that any other terms of the bond agreement have not been satisfied; or

3. As built plans, including profile drawings, have not been filed and corresponding
GIS data (as required) has not been submitted.

D.G. _If the Municipal Engineering Division determines that the installation of required
subdivision improvements does not meet the municipality's adopted standards, the
Municipal Engineering Division shall provide the applicant with a list of required cor-
rections within fifteen (15) days. The list of required corrections must comprehensively
and with specificity list the reasons for the determinationi¥the-bonds-are net released,

EH. Inthe case of a dispute over the release of a performance bond under this Section,

| the Director-Municipal Engineer may refer the matter to the Council for subsequent
action to secure performance. Such bonds shall be processed and released in accord-
ance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 3.56 of Municipal Code.

18.16.040 Default

A. Upon substantiating a finding under Subsection B of this Section, the Director with
approval of the Council may, with due notice to the developer:

1. Declare the performance bond forfeited; and
2. Install or cause the required improvement to be installed using the proceeds from
the performance bond to defray the costs.

B. Aperformance bond may be forfeited under Subsection A of this Section if the Director
finds that a developer has failed or neglected to:

1. Satisfactorily install the required improvements;

2. Make required corrections;

3. Make payment to Planning and Development Services for administration and in-
spections; or

4. Otherwise failed to carry out the activity for which the performance bond was re-
quired.

C. The developer is responsible for work beyond the limits of the bond amount.

D. Any funds remaining after completion of the required improvements will be returned
to the developer.

18.16.050 Warranty Period

A. The warranty period does not begin until each of the following actions have been
taken:

1. The applicant requests a final inspection of all of the improvements in the approved

subdivision improvement plans:
2. All of the subdivision improvements in the approved subdivision improvement

3. The applicant posts a warranty bond, subject to Section 18.16.060, in the amount
of 10% of the estimated cost of the infrastructure improvements as established by
the Municipal Engineering Division's estimated cost of completion or a licensed
contractor's bid. The applicant may indicate in writing that ten percent ( 10%) of the
performance bond be retained as the warrant in lieu of posting a separa ite warranty
bond.

B. The applicant may request partial releases of the performance bond as subdivision
Chapter. Such requests shall follow the same process described in Section 18.16.030,
performance bond(s) for the project, and other relevant information reasonable re-
accepted by the Municipal Engineering Division. A partial release does not start a war-

C. Where an applicant chooses to complete the work prior to recording the plat instead
subdivision improvements are completed, inspected by the Municipal Engineer Divi-
sion, accepted by the Municipal Engineering Division, and the warranty bond is posted.
in accordance with Section 18.16.060. -
satodutheeventine devel ip te epabinlon sil plete-th he-required d improvem matte
sidewalk_road-construction-and-surfacing- flood control-and fire-hydrants shaltpe-not
Jess than-ten-percent 40%} of the- Municipal Engineering Division's estimated cost of

18.16.060 Warranty Bond,Phase-2: Durability
A-—The Planning and Development Services Division shall retain a durabitity-warranty
bond in the amount of not less than ten percent (10%) of the initial amount of the
performance bond or the applicant's reasonable proven cost of completion. The dura-
bility-warranty bond shall be in the form of a cash bond, an escrow agreement, or an
irrevocable letter of credit. The durability-warranty bond shall be for the purpose of
warrantying the improvements and shall be for a period of:
B.A. _oOne (1) year after final acceptance of the improvement or warranty work;-oF
b ial-evid scllewine:
peried.
Engi ine-Division-4 Itati ith the Di
B. At the end of the warranty period, the Municipal Engineering Division shall conduct an
inspection of the required improvements to ensure that:
1. The improvements have not failed or shown unusual depreciation:
2. No portion of the required work remains incomplete: or
3. The materials or workmanship used in constructing the improvements continue to
comply with accepted standards of durability.

B.C. _If, after the warranty period, the durability of said improvements is found to be sat-
isfactory, the retainage may be released following the procedure outlined under Sec-
tion 18.16.030 of this Chapter.
of:

; for the-durabil
iity-bend:

D. If during or at the end of the warranty period the Municipal Engineering Division de-
termines that the conditions under subsection B apply, the Municipal Engineering Di-
vision shall provide the applicant with a list of required corrections within fifteen (15)
days. The corrections list must comprehensively and with specificity list the reasons
for the determination.

F-E. The person giving the durability-warranty bond shall correct the improvements if at
any time during the warranty period:

1. Any required improvement fails or shows unusual depreciation;

2. Certain work has not been completed or it becomes evident that certain work was
not completed; or

3. The materials or workmanship used in constructing the improvements do not oth-
erwise comply with accepted standards of durability.

GF. Ifthe corrections are not made within a reasonable time, the Director, with review
from the Council, in accordance with Section 18.16.040 of this Chapter, may declare
the person and in default and use the retainage to defray the cost of any required
work.

48.46.070 Fee tn-Lieu Of Required tmprovements

a ae a eee a ee eee pe = H q ot PSO i
mich imnmravamantc ac datarminad hy the Municinal Enqgineoring Division—Linerns
SUG hv ro 5 CaS” SST a 2 ee ATT Sag tt iw MS Re bh
mant of tha foa hy tha davoloner thea muiniciy te chall accimo thea recnonsipuiiv to
= as a oa - Tr ou ror FT UR RAY CE RIT ELEC S YT Le VERT SAE he SE ee dN ow...) toee
Sf eee = " Set art = es . = =
ritiirge AST atame hm nrovamanic
STS cara tir VP SST TTS VSTi
ret 7, ee OD | ee warty _ : . u 7 . - a j jt: - TA
thea auctor hall o all Aa enoarcial acre At fo mn fooc ann ale at ms ~ ich 2 4
72-GHGHOFSA GAH OSHA OHS Ht SPCCraraGeeurT Ot+-SUCACHHE Sate SAA GFE HO Sette ate
‘ _— — ave Sk OAR A he
net j ewe = 5
% Te , 7 7 ey 7 — erstt bee: ere ae
alnia Hronortionad hare oO nionract oarnad from invecsimoant of muir: nal monays
SOURtL-A DFO RP COHIORES- SH OMS FE St Se =° OFAGRAYES > O+- = StPp at FHORG YS,
P Toa Tr PSST Pea ry NT el et
— a . var . - 7 . ev " ! $3 F ae er |e a
Monarde ralatinga to idantification of propertiasc forwnicn feo Nave beenscoHvecteg =m
mw ERSIASEN EGS OCF CC TAN TOES COSMOTE TON, POU CPO NSe CUS CMON, SM OLA CO Nee RT Ee
, ~ i . '
cere Nes : “ ' m ae eae es ee eee =
matimtc coloactort fo ~ PID HAVO Oerioc ant mons Tran Ar FOciiio isa ms TIS re alate
? TT SS é p i aera ead al a SF RIE ES se a ee ee a oe Se NE ESE Te nL Se rece eed
: i . v f -
hill r bs 7 ' 2 i . Pa eer
sib at na Dianninga and lDavainnman ansucac |) Jlatae
TRC eT ENS ae Wee BEA th A RE

EXHIBIT B
18.14.150 Open Ditches and Canals, Permitted When
A. Open ditches or canals may not be allowed within or adjoining a subdivision except
along rear or side lot lines. The subdivider shall work with irrigation, drainage or ditch
companies as to:

1. Methods of covering, realigning or eliminating ditches or canals within or adjoining
the subdivision;

2. The size of pipe and culverts required;

3. The responsibility for the periodic inspection, cleaning and maintenance of such
ditches, pipes and culverts. In cases where canals or ditches cross public roads or
proposed public roads, specifications and grades for pipe or culvert must be ap-
proved by the Planning and Development Services Division.
nance:
nature is-confirmed.

EXHIBIT C

19.50.170 Enforcement of Landscape Regulations

fulfited-

BA. If weather or other factors prohibit the installation of landscaping at the time an
occupancy permit is applied for, the applicant shall post a bond to guarantee the com-

| pletion of the public landscaping, which shall be returned upon completion of required
landscaping.

C.B. Failure to implement the landscape plan, or to maintain the lot or use in substantial
conformance with the landscape plan, shall be cause for revecation-ofthe- occupancy
permitand/erthe application of fines and penalties, as established in this Code. In
addition, all landscaping is subject to periodic inspection.

EXHIBIT D
19.34.050 Required Yards and Setbacks
A. Development in the M-1 or M-2 Zones shall comply with the yard and setback stand-
ards shown in Table 19.34.050 and all other applicable standards in this Title.
Table 19.34.050: Required Yards and Setbacks for M-1 and M-2 Zones.
| Front Yard and Side Yard, Corner Lot Setback (in| Minimum: 20 Minimum: 25
feet) Maximum: NA Maximum: NA
| Side Yard, Interior Lot Setback —tnteriorLots-(in| Minimum: 2908 | Minimum: 2908
feet) Maximum: NA Maximum: NA
——
Minimum: 2508 | Minimum: 3508
Minimum Distance between Primary and 10 10
Accessory Structures (in feet)
Side Yard, Interior Lot and Rear Yard Setback (in} Minimum: 30° Minimum: 30°
feet) from a residential zone boundary Maximum: NA Maximum: NA
ide Yard, Interior L dRearS k (in feet = ,
= — es re a — Minimum, 20 Minimum. 20.
———eoorcvc—“l_™ame“s“s“s=s_o=w=>nw_sn_am || Maximum: NA Maximum: NA
boundary a ———
B. Required Setback to Contain Roof Drainage. All buildings located closer than five
feet (5') from a property line shall be equipped with facilities for the discharge of all
roof drainage onto the subject lot or parcel.
B.C. Residential Buffer. A six-foot (6’) masonry wall is required between residential
and non-residential uses in accordance with Section 19.50.050.B.

EXHIBIT G
19.04.20 General Definitions
A. General terms used in Title 19 are defined as follows:

1. “Affected Entity” means a county, municipality, local district, special service
district under Title 17D, Chapter 1, Special Service District Act, school district,
interlocal cooperation entity established under Title 11, Chapter 13, Interlocal
Cooperation Act, specified public utility, property owner, property owners
association, or the Utah Department of Transportation, if:

a. The entity's services or facilities are likely to require expansion or significant
modification because of an intended use of land;

b. The entity has filed with the municipality a copy of the entity's general or long-
range plan; or

c. The entity has filed with the municipality a request for notice during the same
calendar year and before the municipality provides notice to an affected entity in
compliance with a requirement imposed under this Ordinance or Utah Code.

2. “Agent” means a person with written authorization to represent a property owner.

23. "Alteration" means any change or rearrangement in the supporting members
of an existing structure, such as bearing walls. columns, beams. girders. or
interior partitions, or any change in the dimensions or configurations of the roof or
exterior walls.

34. “Appeal Authority” means the same as “Land Use Hearing Officer.”

4-5. “Applicant” means the person who makes formal application for a license,
permit, subdivision or submits any application pursuant to Titles 18 or 19 of
Copperton Municipal Code.

$6. “Bench Mark” means a mark affixed to a permanent or semi-permanent
object along a line of survey to furnish a datum level.

6-7. “Boundary Line Agreement” means an agreement to establish the location
of a boundary between adjoining properties where the location of the boundary is
ambiguous, uncertain, or disputed.

| +8. “Buffer. Riparian” means an area along the course of any watercourse or
roadway or boundary line to be maintained without the disturbance of buildings or
structures other than fencing, if allowed.

9. “Business Day” means a day in which normal business operations are
conducted. Saturdays, Sundays, Holidays and days Planning and Development
Services are not open are not considered business days.

8-10. "Clustering" means a development or subdivision design technique that
concentrates buildings or lots on a part of the site to allow the remaining land to
be used for recreation, common open space, and/or preservation of
environmentally sensitive areas.

9-11. “Concept Plat / Drawing” means a drawing that shows the overall concept
of a proposed development, as further defined in these regulations.

40-12. “Conditional Use” means a land use that has unique characteristics or
negative effects that may not be compatible in an area without conditions to
mitigate or eliminate the detrimental impacts. A land use listed as a conditional
use is a use of land for which a conditional use permit is required pursuant to this
Title.

44.13. “Conservation Easement” means an easement that perpetually prohibits
further development or use inconsistent with, or harmful to, the enhancement,
preservation, and protection of a defined area for the benefit of fish, wildlife,
plants, or other similar ecosystems, or preserves such areas predominantly in
their natural scenic or open condition; but which may, in the sole discretion of the
[insert name of conservation easement holder], permit recreational and/or
agricultural uses which do not involve significant alteration or development of the
restricted area in a manner which is inconsistent with, or harmful to, the
preservation and protection of the restricted area.

42.14. “Council” means the municipal council, unless otherwise clearly indicated.

43.15. “Culinary Water Authority” means the department, agency, or public entity
with the responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of the culinary water
system and sources for the subject property.

44-16. “Development” means any man-made change to improved or unimproved
real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations.

45.17. _ “Development Code” means Titles 18 and 19 of Copperton Municipal
Code.

46-18. “Development Review Committee (DRC)” means Planning and
Development Services staff, in consultation with agencies contracted with the
municipality for engineering, health, fire, and surveying reviews and services.

Comments from other affected entities, service providers or other reviewing
agencies may also be solicited as needed.

4419. “Director” means the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Director
of Planning and Development Services.

48.20. _ “Drive Approach” means an area of the public right-of-way located
between the roadway and property adjacent to the public right-of-way that is
intended to provide access for vehicles from the roadway to the adjacent
property.

49.21. _ “Driveway” means a path of ingress and egress constructed within and
adjoining a roadway, connecting the roadway with adjacent or nearby property in
accordance with Magna Municipal Code. A “driveway” is an unobstructed access
from_a public or private right of way to an adjacent or nearby property that does
not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian travel within the right of way.

22. “Driveway, Cross Access” means a service drive providing vehicular access
between two or more contiquous sites. so the driver need not enter the public
street system.

23."Driveway, Multifamily" means a driveway providing access to more than four
dwelling units.

24. “Driveway, Private” means a driveway limited to the use of the owner or a group
of owners who share the use and maintain the access and those having express
or implied permission from the owner or owners, but not by other persons.

25. “Driveway, Shared” means a driveway serving more than one lot.

20.26. "Dwelling" means any building or structure, or portion thereof, intended for
residential use.

2427. “Dwelling” means any building or structure, or portion thereof, intended for
residential use.

22.28. “Dwelling Unit” means one or more rooms physically arranged so as to
create an independent housekeeping establishment for occupancy by one family
with separate toilets and facilities for cooking and sleeping. Buildings with more
than one (1) kitchen or set of cooking facilities are considered to contain more
than one (1) dwelling unit unless the additional cooking facilities are clearly
accessory to a dwelling unit as determined by the development services director.
Factors for determining whether cooking facilities are accessory to a dwelling unit
may include but are not limited to:

a. Abuilding design which allows all occupants ready access to all portions of
the building including cooking facilities;

b. No portion of the building containing cooking facilities may be separated from
the remaining rooms to form a separate dwelling unit; and

c. There is only one (1) electric and/or gas meter for the building.

29.“Easement” means the quantity of land set aside or over which a liberty, privilege

or advantage in land without profit, existing distinct from the ownership of the

land, is granted to the public or some particular person or part of the public.

23-30. "Expansion" means an increase in the size of an existing structure or use
including physical size of the property, building, parking, and other
improvements.

24.31. “Facility Company” means a company not regulated by the public service
commission that provides a service including but not limited to cable television or
telecommunications.

25.32. _ “Family” means one of the following groups of individuals, but not more
than one group at the same time:

a. An individual living alone; or

b. Two (2) or more people, all of whom are related to one designated occupant
of the dwelling by blood, marriage, adoption, or legal guardianship and their
foster children, and up to two (2) other unrelated persons who do not pay
rent; or

c. Up to four (4) related or unrelated individuals who live and cook together as a
single housekeeping unit; or

d. Two (2) unrelated individuals and any children of either of them living as a
single housekeeping unit.

33.“Good Cause” means incapacitating illness; death; lack of proper notice;
unavailability due to unavoidable, unpreventable, or extenuating emergency or
circumstance; if a required act causes an imminent and irreparable injury; or acts
of nature adverse to performing required acts.

26.34. "Grading" means any change of existing surface conditions by excavating,
placing of any soils or rocks. or stripping of vegetation.

24.35. “Graffiti? means inscriptions, drawings, paintings, or other visual defacing
of buildings, structures, or natural features, without the consent of the owner

thereof, and which is not otherwise authorized and permitted in municipal
ordinances.

28.36. _ “Guest” means a person paying for staying or receiving services at a bed
and breakfast, hotel, motel, resort, or similar facility.

37.“Guestroom” means a room that is designed for double occupancy by guests, for
sleeping purposes.

29.38. _ “Hard surface” means any asphalt or concrete surface of an approved
thickness, or other approved surface, but excluding rock, gravel, grass. or dirt.

30.39. _ “Health Department” means the Health Department of Salt Lake County,
Utah.

3440. “Inoperable Vehicle” means a vehicle that is not currently registered or
licensed in the Utah or in another state, or which has been dismantled or
wrecked so that it is no longer considered street legal.

32.41. “Land Trust” means a private non-stock, non-profit corporation that has as
its purpose the preservation.

33.42. _ “Land Use Application” means an application required by the zoning or
subdivision ordinances.

3443. “Land Use Authority” means the person, board, commission, agency, or
other body designated by the Magna Municipal Council to act upon a land use
application.

35.44. _“Land Use Decision” means any final decision of the Council, Planning
Commission, or final administrative decision of the Director or other official
responsible for the enforcement of zoning and subdivision regulations.

36.45. “Land Use Hearing Officer’ means the “Appeal Authority” created pursuant
to Utah Code §10-9a.701 to hear appeals to zoning decisions applying to the
zoning ordinance as provided in Section 19.16.020 and for decisions by the
Planning Commission. The Land Use Hearing Officer is also the appeal authority
for subdivision appeals subject to Section 18.08.040 of Copperton Municipal
Code. The Land Use Hearing Officer is also charged with the powers and duties
enumerated in Section 19.12.040.C.

3446. “Legal Lot of Record” means any land parcel that existed, as recorded in
the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder, with a separate property
identification number as provided by the Office of the Salt Lake County Recorder
and Office of the Salt Lake County Assessor, prior to December 17, 1952, and all
land parcels that were legally created for the purposes of development pursuant

to the applicable zoning and subdivision requirements and the laws of the State
of Utah after the date of the first Subdivision Ordinance enactment.

3847. “Local Jurisdiction” means the municipality, or other political subdivision
adopting this Ordinance.

3948. “Membrane Covered Frame Structure” means a non-pressurized building
wherein the structure is composed of a rigid framework to support a tensioned
membrane that provides the weather barrier.

49-49. “Minor Local Street” means a street, existing or proposed, often of limited
continuity, the primary purpose of which is to provide access to property and
serve the local needs of a neighborhood. A minor local street carries low volumes
of traffic at the lowest speed limits.

44.50. “Monument” means a permanent survey marker established by the Salt
Lake County Surveyor and/or a survey marker set in accordance with the Salt
Lake County Surveyor’s specifications and referenced to Salt Lake County
survey monuments.

42.51. “Municipal Engineering Division” means the division or personnel hired by
or contracted with the municipality to provide engineering services. The
“Municipal Engineering Division” is also referred to as the “Municipal Engineer’ or
“Municipal Engineering’.

43.52. “Municipal Flood Control Division” means the division or personnel hired
by or contracted with the municipality to provide flood control and water quality
services.

44.53. __ “Municipal Geologist” means the personnel hired by or contracted with the
municipality to provide geologic hazard review and geology services.

54."Natural Condition” means the topography and vegetation of the area that is
unaltered by clearing and grading during construction and protected in perpetuity.

55."Net developable acreage" is defined as land with all of the following:
a._An average slope less than thirty percent: and
a-b. Free from any identified natural hazards such as flood, avalanche,

landslide, high water table and similar features. See Chapter
19.56 (Floodplain Hazard Regulations) and Chapter 19.58 (Geological Hazard
Regulations).

45.56. __“Noncomplying Structure” means a building or other structure or portion

thereof lawfully constructed in compliance with the zoning ordinance existing at

the time of construction, that no longer conforms to the height, area, and/or yard
regulations in the zone in which it is located due to changes to the zoning
ordinance or to the subsequent public acquisition of land for public
improvements. A “Noncomplying Structure” may also be referred to as
“Nonconforming Structures”.

46.57. __“Nonconforming Use” means a use which lawfully occupied a building or
land at the time the ordinance codified in this Title became effective and which
does not conform with the use regulations of the zone in which it is located.

47.58. __“Nonconforming Lot” means a legally established lot or parcel that met the
applicable area, width and other applicable requirements in effect at the time the
lot or parcel was created, but which fails by reason of such adoption, revision or
amendment of the zoning ordinance, to conform to the present requirements of
the zone in which it is located.

48-59. “Owner” includes the plural as well as the singular, and may mean either a
natural person, firm, association, partnership, private corporation, public or quasi-
public corporation, or any combination thereof having a majority fee simple
interest in real property, or a majority interest through any other form of
ownership.

60. “Parcel of Land” means a contiguous quantity of land, in the possession of, or
owned by, or recorded as the property of, the same claimant or person.

61.“Pavement” includes the paved portion of a street, including paved shoulders and
on street parking areas. “Pavement does not include curbs, gutters, park strips,
sidewalks, trails, and driveways.

49-62. “Paved” means ground covered with stone, brick, concrete, asphalt, or
other approved surface, installed over a compacted base course, making a
permanent surface that is firm, smooth, and level. A graded natural surface, or
one covered with rolled stone or overlaid with compacted or loose gravel is not
considered a paved surface.

50.63. _ “Permitted Use” means any use allowed in a zoning district and subject to
the restrictions applicable to that zoning district.

5164. _ “Planning and Development Services’ means the Planning and
Development Services Department of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District.

$2.65. “Planning Commission” means the municipal planning commission.

66. "Portable Storage Container” means a transportable, weather-resistant,
commercially leased or rented storage structure or container that is designed and
used primarily for the storage of goods, items, and materials placed outside of
the primary structure on a property. Portable Storage Container includes CONEX
and other Shipping Containers. Portable Storage Container does not include yard
waste containers, construction debris containers. or containers with a storage
capacity less than two-hundred (200) cubic feet.

§3-67. “Pre-Existing Lot” means a lot that was created prior to the adoption date
of this Ordinance, through a recorded subdivision plat, deed, sales contract, or
survey, and a lot that met the zoning regulations in effect at the time of its
creation. For the purposes of this Title, a pre-existing lot is a nonconforming lot
and shall be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming lots.

54.68. _“Pre-Existing Structure” means a structure that was legally constructed
prior to the adoption of this Ordinance. For the purposes of this Title, a pre-
existing structure is a nonconforming structure and shall be regulated in the
same manner as nonconforming structures.

55.69. _“Pre-Existing Use” means a use that was legally established prior to the
adoption of this Ordinance and has not been abandoned for more than one year.
For the purposes of this Title, a pre-existing use is a nonconforming use and shall
be regulated in the same manner as nonconforming uses.

56-70. “Provisional Parking” means an area or areas within a parking lot where
parking spaces which are shown on the approved parking plan are landscaped
rather than paved. Provisional parking is subject to the requirements of Chapter
19.48.

57.71. “Public Works Operations” means the division or personnel hired by or
contracted with the municipality to provide road construction and maintenance,
snow removal and other related services.

58-72. _ “Record of Survey Map” means a map of a survey of land prepared in
accordance with Utah Code.

73."Recreational Vehicle” means a vehicular unit other than a mobile home,
primarily designed as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational, or vacation
use, that is either self-propelled or pulled by or on another vehicle, including but
not limited to truck campers, camper trailers, motorhomes, vehicles converted to
have living facilities. or other vehicles used_as sleeping or living
accommodations.

74. ‘Residential Roadway” means a public local residential road that:

a. Will serve primarily to provide access to adjacent primarily residential areas
and property:

b. Is designed to accommodate minimal traffic volumes or vehicular traffic;

c._Is not identified as a supplementary to a collector or other higher system
classified street in an approved municipal street or transportation master plan:

d. Has a posted speed limit of 25 miles per hour or less:

e. Does not have higher traffic volumes resulting from connecting previously
separated areas of the municipal road network;

f. Cannot have a primary access. but can have a secondary access, and does
not abut lots intended for high volume traffic or community centers, including
schools, recreation centers, sports complexes, or libraries; and

g. Primarily serves traffic within a neighborhood or limited residential area and is
not necessarily continuous through several residential areas.

75.“Road’” can be used interchangeably with the word street.

§9-76. “Road, Private” means the same as “Street, Private”

77."Sanitary Sewer Authority” means the department, agency, or public entity with
responsibility to review and approve the feasibility of sanitary sewer services or
onsite wastewater systems.

78."Site plan" means an accurately scaled plan that illustrates the existing
conditions on a land parcel and the details of a proposed development including
but not limited to: topography: vegetation; drainage: flood plains: wetlands:
waterways; landscaping and open space; walkways; means of ingress and
egress: circulation; utility easements and services: structures and buildings:
lighting: berms, buffers and screening devices: development on adjacent
property: and any other information that may be required to make an informed
decision.

69.79, "Slope" means the level of inclination from the horizontal, determined by
dividing, in fifty foot intervals, the average horizontal run of the slope into the
average vertical rise of the same slope and converting the resulting fiqure into a
percentage value.

64.80. _ “Standards and Specifications” means the construction and design
requirements and standards of the municipality for the construction and
installation of public infrastructure and improvements. The documents shall be
approved by the Municipal Engineer and approved by Resolution of the Council.

81.“Start of Construction” includes substantial improvement, and means the date the
building permit was issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair,
reconstruction, placement, or other improvement was within one hundred eighty
days of the permit date. The actual start means either the first placement of
permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond
the stage of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a
foundation. “Permanent construction” does not include land preparation, such as
clearing, grading, and filling; nor does it include the installation of streets and/or
walkways; nor does it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or
foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation
on the property of accessory structures, such as garages or sheds not occupied
as dwelling units or not as part of the main structure.

82."Stream, Ephemeral" means those channels, swales, gullies, or low areas that do
not have flow year-round or are not shown on United States Geological Services
(U.S.G.S.) topographic maps as perennial streams. These are generally
channels that are tributary to perennial streams, other ephemeral streams,
terminal low areas. ponds. or lakes. They are typically dry except during periods
of snowmelt runoff or intense rainfall. (Contrast with "Stream, Perennial.")

83."Stream, Perennial" means those streams, excluding ephemeral streams. or
ditches and canals constructed for irrigation and drainage purposes, which flow
year-round during years of normal rainfall, and that are identified on the
appropriate United States Geological Services (U.S.G.S.) topographic maps as
perennial streams. (Contrast with "Stream, Ephemeral.")

62.84. "Stream corridor” means the corridor defined by a perennial stream's
ordinary high water mark.

63.85. “Street” means a thoroughfare which has been dedicated or abandoned to
the public and accepted by proper public authority, or a thoroughfare, not less
than twenty-five feet wide, which has been made public by right of use and which
affords the principal means of access to abutting property. Street does not
include alleys or trails. May sometimes be referred to as road.

64.86. “Street, Private’ means an access way, other than a driveway, similar to
and having substantially the same or similar function as a public street, providing
access to one or more properties, but held in private ownership. A “private street"
is limited to the use of the owner or group of owners who share the use and
maintain the street without the assistance of public entities. “Street. Private” and
“Road, Private” can be used interchangeably.

65.87. __ “Streetlight” means a raised light installed within or adjacent to the street
right-of-way, turned on or lit at a certain time every night. Modern lamps may also
have light-sensitive photocells to turn them on at dusk and off at sunrise or
activate automatically in foul weather.

66.88. _ “Structure” means anything constructed or erected which requires location
on the ground, or attached to something having a location on the ground.

6489. “Structural Alterations” means any change in supporting members of a
building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams, or girders.

68-90. “Subdivision” means any land that is divided, resubdivided, or proposed to
be divided into two or more lots or other division of land for the purpose, whether
immediate or future, for offer, sale, lease, or development either on the
installment plan or upon any and all other plans, terms, and conditions.

a. “Subdivision” includes:

(1) The division or development of land, whether by deed, metes and bounds
description, devise and testacy, map, plat, or other recorded instrument,
regardless of whether the division includes all or a portion of a parcel or
lot; and

(2) Except as provided in Subsection B, divisions of land for residential and
nonresidential uses, including land used or to be used for commercial,
agricultural, and industrial purposes.

b. “Subdivision” does not include:

(1) A bona fide division or partition of agricultural land for the purpose of
joining one of the resulting separate parcels to a contiguous parcel of
unsubdivided agricultural land, if neither the resulting combined parcel nor
the parcel remaining from the division or partition violates an applicable
land use ordinance;

(2) A boundary line agreement recorded with the county recorder's office
between owners of adjoining parcels adjusting the mutual boundary in
accordance with Utah Code § 10-9a-524 if no new parcel is created;

(3) Arecorded document, executed by the owner of record:

i. Revising the legal descriptions of multiple parcels into one legal
description encompassing all such parcels; or
ii. Joining a lot to a parcel;

iii. A boundary line agreement between owners of adjoining subdivided
properties adjusting the mutual lot line boundary in accordance with
Utah Code, § 10-9a-524 and § 10-9a-608, if:
1. No new dwelling lot or housing unit will result from the adjustment;
and
2. The adjustment will not violate any applicable land use ordinance;
iv. Abona fide division of land by deed or other instrument if the deed or
other instrument states in writing that the division:
1. Is in anticipation of future land use approvals on the parcel or
parcels;
2. Does not confer any land use approvals; and
3. Has not been approved by the land use authority;
4. Aparcel boundary adjustment;
5. Alot line adjustment;
6. Aroad, street, or highway dedication plat;
7. Adeed or easement for a road, street, or highway purpose; or
8. Any other division of land authorized by law.
69-91. “Subdivision Amendment” means an amendment to a recorded
subdivision in accordance with Utah Code § 10-9a-608, that:
a. Vacates all or a portion of the subdivision;
b. Alters the outside boundary of the subdivision;
c. Changes the number of lots within the subdivision;
d. Alters a public right-of-way, a public easement, or public infrastructure within
the subdivision; or
e. Alters a common area or other common amenity within the subdivision.
92. “Subject Property” means the land area for which an approval is required to
comply with this Ordinance.
79-93. "Substantial economic hardship" means a denial of all reasonable
economic use of a property.
7494. _ “Substantial improvement” means:

a. Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a structure, the cost of which
equals or exceeds fifty percent of the market value of the structure, either:
(1) Before the improvement or repair is started; or
(2) If the structure is damaged and is being restored, before the damage

occurred.

b. For the purpose of this definition, “substantial improvement” is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part
of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the external
dimensions of the structure.

c. The term does not, however, include either:

(1) Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or
local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions; or

(2) Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of Historic
Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.

95. “Trails” means a system of public recreational pathways located within the
municipality for use by the public for walking, biking and/or horseback riding as
designated.

42-96. “Undevelopable" means strict application of this title prevents the
minimum development necessary to establish a permitted or conditional use in
the underlying zone on the property.

73.97. __ “Utility Company” means a company regulated by the public service
commission that provides a service including but not limited to electricity,
telephone, or gas.

74.98. _ “Utilities or Improvements” means all types of necessary utilities such as
gas lines, culinary and secondary water lines, storm drainage systems, sanitary
sewer systems, electrical power, cable, and telephone with all poles, wires,
pipes, and structures as necessary to provide services, and surface
improvements such sidewalks, curbs, gutters, and streets.

75.99. “Vehicle” means a self-propelled device used for transporting persons or
things, including, but not limited to, automobiles, watercraft, motorcycles,
snowmobiles, and recreation vehicles. Does not include heavy machinery.

76-100. “Vehicle, Commercial’ means any motorized vehicle or trailer used for or
intended for business use - including but not limited to the transportation of

commercial equipment, merchandise, produce, freight, commodities,

passengers, or animals - and which is characterized by any of the following:

a. Heavy equipment, such as earth movers, backhoes, cranes, forklifts,
bulldozers, and the like, which are commonly used for construction,
excavation, demolition, or lifting;

b. Vehicles used to haul equipment or materials, such as dump trucks, tanker
trucks, semi-tractors, semi-trailers, cement trucks, or other similar vehicles;

c. Pickup trucks over one ton with a commercial modification, such as a flat bed,
a dumping mechanism, mechanical lifts or arms for loading and unloading
materials/equipment, aerial buckets or platforms, or other similar feature;

d. Vehicles with more than two axles; or

e. Vehicles with a payload capacity of more than eight thousand five hundred
(8,500) pounds.

47-101. "Waiver" means permission to depart from the requirements of an

Ordinance with respect to the application of a specific regulation.

19.04.030 Site Standard Definitions
A. Site Development terms used in Title 19 are defined as follows:

1. “Active Recreation” means activities that involve inactive or less energetic activities
often performed by leisurely walking or conducting small group gatherings that do
not require physical activity.

2. “Arterial Street” means a street, existing or proposed, which serves or is intended
to serve as a major traffic way and which is designated on the UDOT Functional
Classification Map as a controlled-access highway, limited-access road, major
street, parkway or by equivalent terms suitable to identify streets comprising the
basic structure of the street plan.

3. “All Weather Surface” means a surface composed of gravel, stone, macadam, or
other approved pervious material, with sufficient depth and compaction to permit
vehicular traffic in extremely inclement weather.

4. “Alley” means a public or private way which affords a secondary means of access
to abutting property.

5. “Basement” means any floor level below the first story in a building, except that a
floor level in a building having only one (1) floor level shall be classified as a base-
ment unless such floor level qualifies as a first story.

6. “Base Density’ means the original density permitted under the property’s zoning
category, in dwelling units per acre.

7. “Buildable Area” means a lot or portion thereof possessing all of the following phys-
ical characteristics:

a. The area contains no territory having a slope of thirty percent (30%) or greater;

b. The area contains no territory which is located in any identified floodplain or
within any recognized inundation zone, mudflow zone or zone of deformation,
or lands subject to earth slippage, landslide or rockfall;

c. The engineering properties of the soil provide adequate structural support for
the intended use; and

d. The area does not possess any other recognized natural condition which ren-
ders it unsafe for building purposes.

8. “Building” means any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, for
the housing or enclosure of persons, animals, or chattels.

9. “Building Alteration” means any act or process that changes the architectural de-
tail, function, or structural design of a building, including but not limited to the erec-
tion, construction, reconstruction, or removal of any building.

10. “Building Coverage” means the maximum horizontal area within the outer perime-
ter of the building walls, dividers, or columns at ground level or above, whichever
is the greater area, including, without limitation, courts and exterior stairways, but
excluding:

a. Uncovered decks, porches, patios, terraces, and stairways all less than thirty
inches high; and

b. The outer four feet of completely open, uncovered, cantilevered balconies hav-
ing a minimum of eight feet (8’) of vertical clearance below.

11.“Building Envelope” means the building pad, building footprint, and height re-
strictions, which define the maximum building area in which all development must
occur. The building envelop is the area that remains for placing a structure on a
site after building line, setback, side yard, height and bulk regulations are ob-
served.

12. “Building Facade” means the exterior of a building located above ground and gen-
erally visible from public points of view.

13. “Building Footprint” means the total area of the foundation of a structure, or the
furthest exterior wall or supporting column of the structure. Decks, porches, patios,
stairways, terraces, planter boxes and balconies that are both uncovered and less
than thirty feet (30’) tall, measured from the finished grade are not part of the build-
ing footprint.

14. “Building Height” means the vertical distance above the natural grade at any point
on the perimeter of the building to the highest point of the coping of a flat roof, or
to the deck line of a mansard roof, or to a level midway between the level of the
eaves and the highest point of pitched or hipped roofs, or to a level two-thirds of
the distance from the level of the eaves to the highest point of gambrel roofs. For
purposes of measuring height, the “level of the eaves” means the highest level

where the plane of the roof intersects the plane of the outside wall on any side
containing an eave. Buildings may be stepped to accommodate the slope of the
terrain provided that each step shall be at least twelve feet in horizontal dimension.
The height of each stepped building segment shall be measured separately.

15. “Building Street Frontage” means the portion of the building directly fronting or ad-
jacent to the street. Building Street Frontage is calculated by dividing the portion
of the building at the build-to-line or within a specified distance of the build-to-line
by the street frontage.

16.“Build-to-Line” means the maximum distance a building may be setback from a
property line or other designated location. The purpose of a build-to-line is to bring
structures adjacent to streets and sidewalks to encourage pedestrian activity.

17.“Collector Street” means a street which carries traffic from local streets to the Ar-
terial Street system, including the principal entrance streets of residence develop-
ment and the primary circulating streets within such a development. A collector
street may have prohibited movements and the number and spacing of driveways
may be controlled.

18.“Cul-de-sac” means a minor street having one open end and being terminated at
the other by a vehicular turnaround.

19.“Dedication” means the setting aside of land by an owner for any public use for the
enjoyment of the public and owned by a public agency.

20.“Entrance” means the location of ingress to a room, building, or lot; a location of
admittance.

21.“Exit” means the location of egress from a room, building, or lot.

22.“Fence” means any tangible barrier, latticework, screen, wall, hedge, or continuous
growth of shrubs or trees with the purpose of, or having the effect of, preventing
passage or view across the fence line.

23.“Final Plat” means a plat map prepared in accordance with the provisions of this
ordinance for the purpose of subdividing property. A final plat must be based on
an accurate survey, and such survey marked on the ground so that streets, alleys,
blocks, lots, and other divisions thereof can be identified.

24.“Frontage” means the uninterrupted linear or curvilinear extent of a lot, abutting on
a street, measured along the street right-of-way from the intersection of one side
lot line to the intersection of the other side lot line. The measurement of lot frontage
shall not include irregularities in the street line and, in the case of a corner lot, shall
extend to the point of intersection of the rights-of-way. If a lot has frontage on more
than one street, only the frontage on one street may be used to satisfy the mini-
mum lot frontage.

25."Grade, Finished” means the topographic elevations where the earth meets the
building, upon project completion. Excluded from this definition are window wells
serving basement rooms. Also referred to as “final grade’.

26."Grade, Natural” means the topographic elevations representing the surface of the
ground prior to grading, filling, or other site alterations for a project. When natural
grade is not readily apparent, an approximation of preexisting conditions using
grades on adjacent sites, retaining walls, prior survey maps, etc., may be used as
a reference for determining natural grade. All such grade approximations shall re-
quire the concurrence of the Director. “Grade, Natural” is also referred to as “ex-
isting grade’.

27.Green Space” means open space maintained in a natural, undisturbed, or reveg-
etated condition.

28. “Guarantee” means a bond, escrow or irrevocable letter of credit given by the ap-
plicant(a) to ensure the proper installation of public infrastructure and improve-
ments.

29. “Intensity” means the concentration of activity, such as a combination of the num-
ber of people, cars, visitors, customers, hours of operation, outdoor advertising,
etc.; also, the size of buildings or structures, the most intense being higher, longer
and/or wider.

30. “Lot” means a parcel of land occupied or proposed to be occupied by a building or
buildings, together with such yards, open spaces, lot width, and lot areas as are
required by this Title, having frontage upon a street or a right-of-way approved by
a Land Use Hearing Officer, or upon a right-of-way not less than twenty feet (20’)
wide. Except as provided in this Title, not more than one (1) dwelling structure shall
occupy one (1) lot.

31.“Lot, Corner’ means a lot abutting on two intersecting or intercepting streets, where
the interior angle of intersection or interception does not exceed one hundred
thirty-five degrees.

32.“Lot, Double Fronting” means a lot having frontage on two (2) streets that are par-
allel or nearly so or do not intersect.

33. “Lot, Interior” means a lot other than a corner lot.

34. “Lot Line Adjustment” means the relocation of the property boundary line in a sub-
division between two adjoining lots with the consent of the owners of record. “Lot
Line Adjustment” does not mean a new boundary line that creates an additional lot
or constitutes a subdivision or a subdivision amendment.

35. “Lot Line, Front” means the front boundary line of a lot bordering the street.

36. “Lot Line, Rear’ means a lot line that is opposite and most distant from the front lot
line. In the case of an irregular-shaped lot, the rear lot line shall be that lot line that
is generally parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line, having
a length of at least ten feet (10').

37.“Lot Line, Side” means any lot boundary line not a front lot line or a rear lot line.

38. “Lot Width’ means the distance between the side lot lines measured at the required
front yard setback line. For a corner lot, the lot width is the distance between one

of the front lot lines and the opposite side yard line at the required front yard set-
back line.

39. “Primary building” means the principal building or one of the principal buildings
upon a lot, or the building or one of the principal buildings housing a principal use
upon a lot.

40. “Major Local Street” means a street, existing or proposed, which serves or is in-
tended to serve to connect minor local streets with collector streets while also
providing direct access to property. A major local street has more continuity for
through-traffic than a minor local street.

41."Marginal Access Street” means a local street, parallel and adjacent to a minor
arterial or minor collector street providing access to abutting properties and pro-
tection from arterial or collector streets.

44.42. “Natural Open Space” means land in a predominately open and undevel-
oped condition that is suitable for any of the following: natural areas; wildlife and
native plant habitat: important wetlands or watershed lands: stream corridors: pas-
sive, low-impact activities: little or no land disturbance: or trails for non-motorized
activities.

42.43. “Off Street Parking” means a site or a portion of a site, devoted to the off-
street parking of vehicles, including parking spaces, aisles, access drives, and
landscaped areas, and providing vehicular access to a public street.

4344, “Organic Disposal Site” means a disposal site where settled or precipitated
solid matter produced by water and sewage treatment processes is disposed of in
compliance with the board of health requirements, using sanitary land-filling tech-
niques, in a manner that does not create a nuisance or health hazard, that protects
the environment, and will not cause a pollution source of water, air, etc.

44.45. “Open Space” means an area of land or water set aside to be preserved or
reserved for use by residents of the development. An expanse of lawn, trees,
plants, or other natural areas. Any landscaped area of the site including: required
yards, setbacks, walkways, and limited common areas. It does not include parking,
driveways, or buildings with habitable space for primary uses, but may include
buildings for the purpose of providing an amenity. Open space may be distributed
throughout the development and need not be in a single large area. Open space
may include sensitive areas, such as areas with 30% or greater slope, fault zones,
floodplains, high water tables, and wetlands if they have been designed as an in-
tegra! element of the project. Any additional amenity that is located on the roof of
a building shall not be considered open space.

45.46. “Parking Lot” means an open area, other than a street, used for parking of
more than four automobiles and available for public use, whether free, for com-
pensation, or as an accommodation for clients or customers.

46.47. _ “Parking Space” means space within a building, lot, or parking lot for the
parking or storage of one automobile.

4448. “Passive Recreation” means activities that involve inactive or less energetic
activities often performed by leisurely walking or conducting small group gather-
ings that do not require physical activity.

48.49. “Preliminary Approval” means an approval, with or without recommended
alterations, given to a preliminary plat by the Planning Commission and provides
the necessary authority to proceed with the preparation and presentation of the
final plat.

49-50. “Preliminary Plat” means a map or plan of a proposed land division or sub-
division. A drawing that shows the perimeter boundary, topography, lot layout ar-
rangement, street layout, and other features of a proposed subdivision, as speci-
fied for a preliminary plat in the Ordinance.

51."Public Utility Easement” An area on a recorded plat map or other recorded docu-
ment that is dedicated to the use and installation of public utility lines, mains, ser-
vices, and minor facilities.

§0-52. "Retaining wall" means a wall designed and constructed to resist the lateral
displacement and erosion of soils or other materials.

$453. “Setback” means a distance from a curb, property line, or structure within
which building is prohibited.

$2.54. “Side Yard, Corner Lot” means a side lot line that abuts a street.

§3-55. “Side Yard, Interior Lot” means a side lot line that abuts a side or rear lot
line of another lot.

54.56. “Stealth Design” means the use of alternative support structures to blend or
hide the communication equipment with the design, shape, or color of the struc-
ture. Examples of stealth design include field lights, clock towers, bell towers, water
towers, flagpoles, windmills, monuments, etc.

§5.57. “Story” means that portion of a building included between the upper surface
of any floor and the upper surface of the floor next above, except that the topmost
story shall be that portion of a building included between the upper surface of the
topmost floor and the ceiling or roof above. If the finished floor level directly above
a usable or unused underfloor space is more than six feet above grade for more
than fifty percent of the total perimeter or is more than twelve feet above grade at
any point, such usable or unused underfloor space will be considered as a story.

56.58. _“Story, First” means the lowest story in a building that qualifies as a story,
except that a floor level in a building having only one floor level shall be classified
as a first story, provided such floor level is not more than four feet below grade for
more than fifty percent of the total perimeter, or not more than eight feet below
grade at any point.

$4.59. “Story, Half means a story with at least two of its opposite sides situated in
a sloping roof, the floor area of which does not exceed two-thirds of the floor im-
mediately below it.

§8-60. “Yard” means a space on a lot, other than a court, unoccupied and unob-
structed from the ground upward by buildings or structures, except as "provided
herein.

§9.61. “Yard, Front” means a space on the same lot with a building, between the
front line of the building and the front lot line, and extending across the full width
of the lot. The “depth” of the front yard is the minimum distance between the front
lot line and the front line of the building.

60-62. “Yard, Rear’ means a space on the same lot with a building, between the
rear line of the building and the rear lot line, and extending the full width of the lot.
The “depth” of the rear yard is the minimum distance between the rear lot line and
the rear line of the building.

6463. “Yard, Required” means the open space around buildings which is required
by the terms of this Title.

62.64. “Yard, Side” means a space on the same lot with a building, between the
side line of the building and the side lot line, and extending from the front yard to
the rear yard. The “width” of the side yard shall be the minimum distance between
the side lot line and the side lot line of the building. See “Side Yard, Interior Lot”
and “Side Yard, Corner Lot”.

SEI
rf (me i Planning Commission Staff Report
COPPERTON
UTAH
Meeting Body: — Copperton BACKGROUND/ ISSUES TO CONSIDER
eranririg (SSnnmISSICD During the 2025 Session, the Utah Legislature adopted House Bill
Meeting Date: December 3%, | 368, which necessitates that the city make certain changes to Title
— 18 Subdivisions and Title 19 Zoning regarding subdivision
File Number & Project Type: | bonding processes, warranty bond timing, warranty bond
OAM2025-001540 — Copperton | inspections and releases, and regulating landscape installation
* Omnibus and = HB 368 | relative to building permits and certificates of occupancy. In
Amendments “ an . . . .
addition, an existing ordinance requires that a signature is
Applicability: Citywide required on construction plans contrary to Utah Code because it
Planner: Brian Tucker, Planning | has the effect of subjecting an applicant to standards and
Manager requirements that are not adopted by Copperton.
Applicant: Copperton Staff PROPOSED ORDINANCE
Key Findings: ; i. ;
The proposed ordinance eliminates the requirement that a
e House Bill 368 mandated 5 . Ae
tain ch = developer post a reclamation bond prior to beginning
certain changes to the . _ . ..
Copperton Subdivision construction. HB 368 prohibits a city from Seg pintiig that a
Ordinance, warranty bond or any other bond be posted prior to a developer
© Other amendments clarify the | beginning construction on approved subdivision improvements if
legislative intent of the the developer chooses to complete the installation of those prior
ordinance, to recording the subdivision plat. HB 368 also prohibits a city from
* Clear definitions of the words | requiring that the warranty portion of the bond be posted prior
and phrases used in titles 18 .
. to the release of the improvement bond. The developer may not
and 19 are essential to , ;
administering those titles. record the plat until either the improvements are complete and
accepted by the city or the developer posts an improvement
Staff Recommendation: The | bond. Cities are required to allow a developer to choose either of
MSD Planning Staff recommend those two paths
that the Copperton Planning P ,
Seominission recommend that the | The proposed ordinance amends the procedures and timeframes
Council approve the attached | fo, inspecting and releasing improvement bonds to comply with
ordinance.
HB368.
Exhibits:
; The proposed ordinance eliminates the option of extending the
A. Proposed Ordinance . .
warranty period for two years to comply with Utah Code 10-9a-
103(27).
The proposed ordinance eliminates Fees in Lieu of required
improvements.
[0AM2025-001540 / Copperton Omnibus and HB 368 Amendments / December 3, 2025] | Page 1 of 3

The proposed ordinance eliminates a requirement that a water master sign subdivision
improvement construction plans. According to Utah Code 10-9a 509(1)(g), A municipality may
not impose on an applicant who has submitted a complete application a requirement that is
not expressed in Chapter 10-9a-509; a municipal ordinance in effect on the date that the
applicant submits a complete application; or a municipal specification for public
improvements applicable to a subdivision or development that is in effect on the date that
the applicant submits an application. While the owner of a ditch or canal may be able to
enforce their standards, the city cannot enforce those standards because those standards are
not expressed in municipal ordinance or in standards and specifications adopted by the city.
The requirement for a water master to sign the plans is contrary to Utah Code Chapter 10-
9a-509 because it has the effect of subjecting an applicant to standards and specifications
that are not adopted by Copperton.
The proposed ordinance modifies the setback requirements in the M-1 and M-2
(Manufacturing) zones when uses in those zones border on other parcels in the
manufacturing/industrial zones. The setback requirements that Copperton had used as part
of Unincorporated Salt Lake County and later as a Metro Township utilized a lightly adapted
version of the county code, which had no side or rear yard setback requirements. Salt Lake
City and West Valley City also do not have side and rear yard setback requirements for their
manufacturing/industrial zones. West Jordan has setback requirements when adjacent to
commercial and residential zones, but not when manufacturing uses are found in an industrial
park or district. The proposed ordinance eliminated side and rear yard in the the M-1 and M-
2 zones when located in industrial parks or districts. In those relatively rare occasions where
the flex manufacturing zone is located adjacent to potentially incompatible uses a setback is
required depending on the category of the adjacent use; and
The proposed ordinance adds or clarifies the definitions for "Animal Rights", "Alteration",
"Clustering", “Drive Approach", “Driveway”, Driveway, Cross Access”, “Driveway, Multifamily",
‘Driveway, Private”, “Driveway, Shared”, “Dwelling”, "Expansion", "Grading", “Hard Surface”,
Natural Open Space", "Net Developable Acreage", “Pavement”, “Paved, Road, “Portable
Storage Container”, Private”, “Recreational Vehicle”, “Residential Roadway”, “Retaining Wall”,
"Site Plan", "Slope", "Stream, Ephemeral”, "Stream, Perennial", "Stream Corridor", “Street,
Private”, "Substantial Economic Hardship", “Undevelopable", and "Waiver".
STAFF RECOMMENDATION

Staff finds that:

1. House Bill 368 was adopted by the Utah Legislature during its 2025 regular session,

[OAM2025-001540 / Copperton Omnibus and HB 368 Amendments / December 3, 2025] | Page 2 of 3

2. This bill mandated that cities no longer require bonds to be posted prior to
constructing subdivision improvements unless the developer wants to record the final
subdivision plat prior to constructing those improvements,

3. The bill mandated that cities revise their policies on inspecting and releasing
improvement bonds,

4. Utah Code precludes cities from extending the warranty period for subdivision
improvements for more than one year,

5. Fees in lieu are not a workable alternative to installing required improvements or delay
agreements,

6. Mandating that a water master signs a set of construction plans that an applicant must
build to has the effect of subjecting an applicant to standards that are not adopted by
Copperton, and is therefore contrary to Utah Code Utah Code 10-9a 509(1)(g),

7. The existing side and rear yard setbacks in the Manufacturing Zones are excessive
when located in a manufacturing district or adjacent to other manufacturing, industrial,
or warehousing uses.

8. Where manufacturing, industrial or warehousing uses are proposed adjacent to zones
that are primarily residential or commercial, due to the incompatibility of uses, a
substantial setback is appropriate.

9. Where buildings are allowed within five feet of a property line, drainage must still be
routed to stormwater facilities on the subject parcel.

10. Clear definitions of the words and phrases used in titles 18 and 19 are essential to
administering those titles.

Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:
The MSD Planning Staff recommend that the Copperton Planning Commission recommend
that the Council approve the attached ordinance.

[OAM2025-001540 / Copperton Omnibus and HB 368 Amendments / December 3, 2025] | Page 3 of 3
