|
‘COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL |
RESOLUTION NO. #R2026-12 DATE: June 17, 2026
A RESOLUTION OF THE COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL APPROVING AN }
AMENDMENT TO AN INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT WITH SALT LAKE COUNTY )
FOR GRANT FUNDS REGARDING COPPERTON PARK
WHEREAS, the Town of Copperton (“Copperton”) and Salt Lake County (“County”) are 1
parties to a contract and related amendment that provide Tourism, Recreation, Cultural, and )
Convention (“I'RCC”) grant funds to Copperton to make certain improvements to Copperton
Park; and
|
WHEREAS, Copperton and the County desire to amend the contract to change the scope |
and deadline for the improvements; namely, to: (i) complete certain Americans with Disability Act |
: and infrastructure upgrades; and (ii) install a new commemorative arch as a community |
placemaking element within Copperton Park; and
WHEREAS, an amendment to the Agreement has been prepared entitled “Amendment No.
2 of the Agreement Between Salt Lake County and Copperton,” (the “Amendment”) attached to
this resolution; and
WHEREAS, under the Amendment, the remaining $72,367 in TRCC grant funds will be
directed towards the installation of the new commemorative arch, while the City will provide its
own funds to complete the remaining costs of the project, which are estimated to be $250,000.
WHEREAS, the Copperton Town Council has determined that approval of the
Amendment will serve the best interests of Copperon and the general public.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Council:
1. Approval of the Amendment: The Amendment is hereby approved in the form
attached to this resolution. The Amendment may be modified or revised prior to execution by the
Mayor, provided that any such modifications or revisions do not substantially alter the material
terms.
2. Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
resolution is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this resolution, or specific application
of this resolution, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full force and effect.
3. Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and directed to
take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this resolution to become effective under Utah law; and
(b) to finalize and post the resolution to MuniCode, including but not limited to making non-
substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.
4. Effective Date: This resolution shall become effective immediately.
:

|
| APPROVED and ADOPTED this 17" day of June 2026
TOWN OF COPPERTON
By:
Sean Clayton}
ATTEST
Diana Baun, Clerk
| Voting:
Councilmember Stitzer voting AESEO
Councilmember Bailey voting
Councilmember Pratt voting
Councilmember McCalmon_ voting
Mayor Clayton voting

|
|
}
, County Contract No.0000004045 |
DA Log No 24CIV000770 |
AMENDMENT NO. 2 |
To the |
|
AGREEMENT BETWEEN ,
SALT LAKE COUNTY
AND
COPPERTON
oR
THIS AMENDMENT NO.1 to Salt Lake County Contract #0000004045 is effective as of
day of , 2026, by and between SALT LAKE COUNTY, a
“ body corporate and politic of the State of Utah, for and on behalf of its Department of
Community Services ("County") and the COPPERTON, a municipal corporation of the State of
Utah (“City”). County and City may each be referred to herein as a “Party” and collectively as
the “Parties.”
RECITALS:
A. On or about June 19, 2024, the Parties entered into Salt Lake County
Contract No. 0000004045 (the “Agreement”);
B. On or about March 25, 2025, the Parties entered into Amendment 1 to the Salt
Lake County Contract No. 0000004045 (the “Amendment 1”);
C. The Parties now wish to amend the Agreement to amend the scope of work
and extend the expenditure deadline and reporting deadlines.
AMENDMENT
The Parties agree to amend the Agreement as follows:
1. Paragraph 2 is deleted and replaced as follows:
2. CiTy’s OBLIGATIONS AND REPRESENTATIONS.
A. Acknowledgement. City acknowledges that the TRCC Funds provided to City
under this Agreement are County public funds received pursuant to the TRCC Act and Salt Lake
I ;
| : _

County Code of Ordinances §3.10.030, 3.10.040, and 3.10.051, and therefore must be used for
the development, operation, and maintenance of publicly owned or operated recreation, cultural,
or convention facilities.
B. Allowable Uses and Limitation on Use.
City shall use the TRCC Funds provided under this Agreement solely to cover
costs incurred by City to develop the Project as described in EXHIBIT A, as attached to
the original agreement (application) and amended in the Scope Change Request Form
and Scope Change Presentation attached hereto as EXHIBIT A and EXHIBIT B, }
(project budget).
City shall not expend any TRCC Funds on: (a) fund-raising expenditures related
to capital or endowment campaigns, grants or re-grants; (b) direct political lobbying, (c)
bad debt expense, (d) non-deductible tax penalties, (e) operating expenses that are
utilized in calculating federal unrelated business income tax; or (f) in any other manner
that would be inconsistent with the use stated in Paragraphs 2A and 2B of this
Agreement.
C. Project Completion Deadline. Recipient shall complete the project scope as
outlined in City’s TRCC Application hereto as EXHIBIT A by September 30,
2026. Any scope change for the project must be requested and approved by the TRCC advisory
board before the work is completed. |
|
Dz. Match Requirement. If City’s TRCC Application, as amended, is attached as :
EXHIBIT A and/or budget attached as EXHIBIT B indicates that City will make a matching
contribution toward the purpose for which TRCC Funds will be used by City under this
Agreement, City shall make the matching contribution so indicated in the amount specified in |
City’s Application. If City fails to make and expend such a matching contribution prior to |
September 30, 2026, the County may require repayment of TRCC Funds from City for |
noncompliance with this provision.
E. Reimbursement Deadline. City shall furnish to County the TRCC Reimbursement |
Form, which can be found at https://www.saltlakecounty.gov/community-services/trec-support-
program/. together with such invoices or other supporting documentation as County may reasonably |
require. All requests for reimbursement under this Agreement shall be made on or before ,
December 31, 2026. Additionally, if it is later determined that City used any portion of the
TRCC Funds for anything other than for the purposes identified in Paragraph 2B above, City :
shall immediately pay to the County an amount equal to the amount of TRCC Funds spent for |
purposes other than those identified in Paragraph 2B. |
F. Reporting Requirements. City shall submit to the County a completed copy of |
the TRCC Project Status Report, which can be found at
https://www.saltlakecounty.gov/community-services/trec-support-program/, detailing how the
TRCC Funds were expended no later than December 31, 2024, December 31, 2025 and
December 31, 2026. |
|
2 |
f
|
:
|

|
: G. Recordkeeping. City agrees to maintain its books and records in such a way that ° |
any TRCC Funds received from the County will be shown separately in the City’s books. City |
shall maintain records adequate to identify the use of the TRCC Funds for the purposes specified
in this Agreement. City shall make its books and records available to the County at reasonable
times.

H. Public Funds and Public Monies:

(i) City agrees that the TRCC Funds are “public funds” and “public monies,”
meaning monies, funds, and accounts, regardless of the source from which they are
derived, that are owned, held, or administered by the State or any of its boards,
commissions, institutions, departments, divisions, agencies, bureaus, laboratories, or
similar instrumentalities, or any county, city, school district, political subdivision, or
other public body. The terms also include monies, funds or accounts that have been
transferred by any of the aforementioned public entities to a private contract provider for
public programs or services. Said funds shall maintain the nature of “public funds” while
in City’s possession.

(ii) City, as the recipient of “public funds” and “public monies” pursuant to
this and other agreements related hereto, expressly agrees that it, its officers, and its
employees are obligated to receive, keep safe, transfer, disburse and use these “public
funds” and “public monies” as authorized by law and this Agreement for TRCC
qualifying purposes in Salt Lake County. City understands that it, its officers, and its
employees may be criminally liable under Utah Code Ann. § 76-8-402 for misuse of
public funds or monies. City expressly agrees that the County may monitor the
expenditure of TRCC Funds by City.

(iii) | City agrees not to make TRCC Funds or proceeds from such funds
available to any public officer or employee or in violation of the Public Officers’ and
Employees’ Ethics Act, Utah Code Ann. §§ 67-16-1, et seg. (1953, as amended).

I. Right to Verify and Audit. The County reserves the right to verify application
and evaluation information and to audit the use of TRCC Funds received by City under this
Agreement, and the accounting of such use. If the County requests an audit, City agrees to
cooperate fully with the County and its representatives in the performance of the audit.

J. Noncompliance, City agrees that the County may withhold TRCC Funds or other
funds or require repayment of TRCC Funds from City for noncompliance with this Agreement,
for failure to comply with directives regarding the use of public funds, or for misuse of public
funds or monies.

K. Representations.

(i) No Officer or Employee Interest. City represents and agrees that no
officer or employee of the County has or shall have any pecuniary interest, direct or
indirect, in this Agreement or the proceeds resulting from the performance of this

3

Agreement.

Gi) Ethical Standards. City represents that it has not: (a) provided an illegal
gift in connection with this Agreement to any County officer or employee, or former
County officer or employee, or to any relative or business entity of a County officer or
employee, or relative or business entity of a former County officer or employee; (b)
retained any person to solicit or secure this Agreement upon an agreement or
understanding for a commission, percentage, brokerage or contingent fee, other than
bona fide employees of bona fide commercial agencies established for the purpose of
securing business; (c) breached any of the ethical standards in connection with this
Agreement set forth in State statute or Salt Lake County Code of Ordinances § 2.07; or
(d) knowingly influenced, and hereby promises that it will not knowingly influence, in
connection with this Agreement, any County officer or employee or former County
officer or employee to breach any of the ethical standards set forth in State statute or Salt
Lake County ordinances.

2. All Parts, Paragraphs, Attachments and other provisions of the Agreement shall be
the same and remain in full force and effect.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment No. 2,
the day and year first above written.
[Signature Pages to Follow]
4

SIGNATURE PAGE FOR THE COUNTY
SALT LAKE COUNTY:
|
By |
Mayor Jennifer Wilson or Designee }
Dated: , 2026
4
Approved by: |
|
DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY SERVICES |
By
Robin Chalhoub
Department Director
Dated: 52026 |
|
Reviewed and Advised as to Form and Legality:
By
Senior Deputy District Attorney
|
. |
|
[Signatures continue on next page.]
|
!
|
|
|
|
|
|

INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT -- SIGNATURE PAGE FOR THE CITY
COPPERTON
By
Name: CIN
Title: MAaY Or
Dated: C/U) |} , 2026
Attest:
DIANA B AWN , City Recorder
Date signed:_(g | 17 [202
Approved as to Proper Form and Compliance with Applicable Law:
CITY ATTORNEY
By
Name:
Dated: , 2026
H:\Share\CWANGSGARD\TRCC\2024\Completed\Copperton\Amendment 2\Copperton Park Upgrade Amendment 2 - 6.9.26.docx
6

‘ EXHIBIT A

| Scope Change Request Form and Scope Change Presentation

(Application attached to original Agreement)

| x
|
|
|

| |

|
TRCC Project Change Request
Town of Copperton
Copperton Park Improvements
Project Contact Additional Contact
Name: Bianca Paulino Name:
Email: bipaulino@msd.utah.gov Email:
Phone: (385) 377 : 7147 Phone: -
1) Request Type
ie, Scope Change
ie Deadline Extension
Ei Other:

2) Reason for Request
Provide a brief summary and reason for the change.

We are requesting a scope change and deadline extension because during the design work process, it was revealed that the sidewalks, gutters, and ramps around the historic Copperton Park Arch
(northwest corner) are outdated, misaligned, and do not meet current ADA standards. These issues were not identified in the original application, but they must be corrected before any new
improvements can be safely or effectively installed. It would not be practical to add traffic calming or placemaking features on top of infrastructure that is not accessible or properly aligned.
Addressing these conditions requires adjusting the project scope and extending the timeline.

3) Current Project Status
Explain the current project or program status, including next steps.

The pickleball courts and tennis court have been completed. Remaining funds were planned for northwest corner improvements identified in the Copperton Active Transportation Plan, including
traffic calming features and enhancements to create a more welcoming entrance to the park. During design, the team discovered significant problems with the existing sidewalks, gutters, and ramps
near the historic arch. These issues must be fixed first to ensure ADA compliance and proper function of the planned improvements. The City is prepared to contribute funding toward these repairs.
Next steps include completing the necessary infrastructure corrections and then moving forward with the revised improvements.

4) Project Summary |
Provide an overview of the updated project or program that explains its purpose, what has changed, and what it aims to accomplish (include who, what, when, where, |
cost). |
The updated project will still focus on improvements within Copperton Park, but the sequence and allocation of funding are proposed to change. During the design process, it was identified that the |
sidewalks, gutters, and ramps around the historic Copperton Park Arch do not meet current ADA standards and must be repaired and realigned before other improvements can be implemented. The
City plans to use its own funding to complete these ADA and infrastructure upgrades. During the evaluation and planning of these improvements, the idea of installing a complementary arch to
commemorate Copperton’s decennial milestone and celebrate the community’s identity also emerged. As part of this proposed scope adjustment, the remaining grant funds ($72,367) would be
directed toward the installation of the new arch as a community placemaking element within Copperton Park, with the City covering the remaining costs of the estimated $250,000 project. Final siting
of the arch will occur within Copperton Park during the design process, and improvements would be completed within the proposed extended project timeline.

Updated: 11/20/24 Page 1

|
COUNTY
TRCC Project Change Request
Town of Copperton
Copperton Park Improvements

5) Scope of Work
Describe the scope of work, including the requested scope change, expected deliverables, and updated timeline
The proposed scope adjustment maintains the overall goal of improving Copperton Park while modifying the sequence of work and allocation of grant funds. During the design process, it was
identified that the sidewalks, gutters, and ramps around the historic Copperton Park Arch do not meet current ADA standards and must be repaired and realigned before additional improvements can
be implemented. The City plans to use its own funding to complete these ADA-related infrastructure upgrades. During the evaluation of these improvements, the idea of installing a complementary
arch within Copperton Park emerged as a community placemaking feature to commemorate Copperton’s decennial milestone and celebrate the town’s identity. As part of this proposed scope
change, the remaining grant funds ($72,367) would be directed toward the installation of the new arch, with the City covering the remaining costs of the estimated $250,000 project. Deliverables
include concept design, engineering and permitting, and construction and installation of the arch. The anticipated timeline includes concept development (2-4 weeks), design and engineering (4-8
weeks), and fabrication and installation (6-12 weeks), with completion anticipated by August in coordination with the Copperton Town Days community event.

Updated: 11/20/24 Page 2

OSI OSG ROE NOES?
< e re
Town of Copperton. March 2026
Bee ee ae ee ee ec gle camn (aoe ee ke ee
Z Stet, edad sabe. cee be eee i aS Fig: he ame a RIN te te aR a GSS ¢ 5 . « ah ji ities ; ‘ i aw eae Nii Gea eas
pate ah Ea ek Nas Se erm eens NG Pea 1. # 5 f es Pi ee yA : es Oe
“osdee pen ee Sette vs Ger % Q e ee Rayan Zikess om: as SVAN Gaetan Oo OS Nee oS, SSRs ee , j

— Be ee a atin. '
; ja Saag Sappeneeean Ea
4 Covperton was fi ee oe | Sean ewe TT a. |
ior ees as first established asa | ~ er ee ee Yahi MRS er cena NS as rein) ie
b= = Company. Co oe Bee Soe SUNG eee? A sess OS
ae on Park was ee wa (seh B/N a
@ei-, Cecicated in 192 ee eae co. te eh. NA
oe , aS the central Pa ee ae Ae P her. ieee ak A Eta site /Pig-ok ARLEN SS
| recreational and ee ee a aioe fF ogionat Network LENE NS
Ree ane ‘i eeting space for } Stee ae ae Rt BO es ve | ee “ WESTERN BONNEVILLE SHORELINE TRAIL Bs :
ligeiee Sth ate t e comm . eo re Gee Pc haat pees O° Sect Aternate 851 AUgninent Option (BST) ALIGNMENT ALTERNATIVES bie
ae ke os t III, this Is where Be a See a wn Hiciaiedeaom: ee
ieee aa he j pikes en Sey ee ea ccm | hats sa cpnesiittntesieal bests
PE community gathers for events and eS a ee eaoncpaneeTaittipen <
- = family outings. Childre i a eer soap
ick mesg nc lk eee Th pte BA | ies De seer Fe ee Wiles oor —. A
Pats Tie el ride their bikes t : an Walk OF FR aA . oe : pet Wiles olin? Me Pe:
ean 4 - hoe S tO Varlous park = a a ee inal RTS
Bares | amenities, wi promt hrs aml Sal a ee an ee sero | : =
ae ue at: . & = PaUET CRS aes Py ary | v Tad: ¥, ey he tt pre * i
sa 4 without su pervisio | ithe wea cea 1 Eh OES. ear (SO. cages é foe
Re eae oor ny ee ey ge se ee ata Je
‘= Copperton resid i : n. A | | eee Sedo Me a ie oy
Pea, Me walking distance of the ae Ml eae _* De
eel ue pee ot rR 9 al cy ec ee ye une AR Ve: a
apc ES oo) iat ei pe a AR ee cog Se ee Tm LT _ fae ae Seaueaaars tei cae ee =, ra Sa Sai)! later e, WAR SAD Ry VOR) Med
RRR wag oe ea me ety emer eS, a i ams Boma: OT eee URE gee pM
Bae TEA, a LO aa el Se an, OT aS psy, ‘apenas see oa, Hie ss eae au BY tae) BB A ORG, 1s . VOY ee iz reaerea
Bee ht ane 8 eee Bat eC "eae a Gee: i Paes oe i iy Veg ey alas | a
Pai Deca tgs le a, aa ER Gis a Le Bk As See Pane: 1 im Si ‘3 iN NGS Pie
Paes | by en BP ee em a ct Breen. ee he Mey ee oan fis" ‘ae Py Oe aes AOS fa Raa i ays mee \") 4 Miianaainy ~~
eee a See. see Ch ee on ay ae rae eee ae v y &S..: |
Fae a ME ax sag ae. , see ora te wert Wy hie) oe ch ae a is Pi a (y) : ahi pa
5 ae pay “he ae oy yee eae. os Nya) ot 4 OY acne pre eth Ae ie ee a ok fain > Be Sit Sei ae We pei) i ‘ ibs Pera ig fae
ME Pare alte ol Bags ee kor ae ee ip 5 ee pa gee nS Re on Same Re
Br caer Naas ke i | soalaeee ecveea men ts (ola RRA, 1 eae PONE eS haath Bc aa PA Ie a By) gaa gs i Lye
: oon he ey een bi ys Ce te JS aaa le eae HON. at ML, ea <s ‘i may ve 1 i Naa a ng OR rain ity ta J
ee Wc u, aR eda RN ni trey Oe ae Rt Flake Sittapr ae capa bg th ils wr i oni 9 ees ee ne ay mS RCE Dic ie ee y
ie So SS Bate cane Se Beis can | Mn oo
MERC es Resa s ee ae iS be
&, ws < ORE it . BG Ni

@
Whi: as been completed?
¢ The 4 pickle ball courts and 1 tennis court have been completed.
ross * Les Se Sieg ek SR ile ake - a ae ig Se
me Oe Se ie aye) ee a NS —
oem ee et oe ee Te ee oe, aN Hie
ceo) ee i = Cl ( (iti(i‘é CC oo

= cart ete. + ' oe a main PA\ ¥
pavingdesign =) Py. ‘ee ae si .
=| G) ear
¢ During the design process, sidewalks, gutters, and ee ay vf ee
ramps near the historic Copperton Park Arch were eee | Da 7. na Tees
found to be outdated, misaligned, and not ADA “Curbextensions |[]] || ( “seat ng, lighting . a
compliant. These infrastructure improvements must be ossings aa [| a | | sete ies. ‘e
completed before additional improvements can be pedestrian space || ye | highligh theiconic =
installed safely and effectively. ee “ag eee a
* The City plans to fund the ADA-related repairs
separately. The proposed scope change would redirect Park Corners
the remaining grant funds toward installing a new ; ;
commemorative arch in Copperton Park to celebrate Coppertan Park is a helewed cemrnemnity place
and the Utah Copper Company archway in
Copperton’s decennial milestone. the northwest corner is likely the most iconic
landmark in town. This concept seeks to
enhance this location by reducing the crossing
distance to the park, helping to slow traffic,
and converting extra asphalt into pedestrian
space that celebrates community history and
identity.

: . : Next Steps
* Cconcept design and
preconstruction coordination
(April)
* Complete design, engineering
ie ) (May-June)
Questio LS: * Fabrication and construction of
: : the arch (June-July)
aie 3 FI SI CE pane oe, Poe See * Installation and project
BOE LOE GCE ya se cong rca OT ae completion in Berane
sa Fa tee ge ar iti on ee Qty = ee P
ae Spero. ee a ee Se RR TP sg with Copperton Town Days :
ee ros : Rete Gok Sige lg sere Se, Se ae ig ee SO ae
COPPERTON @ OP epee” SS ae
ee : Se a i eRe ER a cage. Ss ee eee
“=~ Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District oo ae if ~ pee ee a
= * bipaulino@msd.Utah.gov ee gh So me OS
Lin, Sie ae ee SS ae ee Be act Saar Nee os
oh 7 cat a ee RR We MacOS EN Hae : eae eee A Re aes : TRESS SEN eee meat eee
2 gas, eee eas Spee, a gee Se eT I cate TS Seer Seen ee Rh eR ee

. Exhibits B °
(Attached to Agreement)
8
