, TOWN OF COPPERTON ,
RESOLUTION #R2026-11 DATE: June 17, 2026
A RESOLUTION OF THE COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL RESTATING THE
COUNCIL’S RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE
RECITALS

WHEREAS, Utah Code §§ 52-4-101 et seq., Open and Public Meetings Act, require the

Town of Copperton (“Copperton”) to take its actions openly and conduct deliberations openly,
, unless statutory exceptions apply; and

WHEREAS, Utah Code §10-3-606 requires the Copperton Town Council (“Council”) to
adopt rules of order and procedure to govern and prescribe parliamentary order and procedure,
ethical behavior, and civil discourse in a public meeting; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to revise and restate its rules of order and procedure to

account for the Town’s conversion from a metro township to a Town, to include a more defined
agenda development process, and to make other necessary amendments and updates; and

’ WHEREAS, the Council, as the legislative body for Copperton, requires a systematic
way of conducting its business through rules of order and procedure designed to provide for
the orderly conduct of full, open, and comprehensive debate of issues placed on the Council
Agenda for action in a forum open to the public; and

WHEREAS, the Council finds that it is proper to restate its rules of order and procedure

so that Council meetings and other public hearings are conducted in a fair, orderly, and efficient
manner; and °

WHEREAS, this resolution is adopted to provide a set of rules to govern Council

meetings and public hearings.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Council:

1. Adoption: The rules of order and procedure attached to this resolution are approved
effective immediately, and all prior rules of order and procedure are repealed in their entirety.

2. Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
resolution is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this resolution, or specific application
of this resolution, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full force and effect.

3. Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and directed to
take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this resolution to become effective under Utah law; and '
(b) to finalize and post the resolution to MuniCode, including but not limited to making non-
substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors. .

1

4. Effective Date: This resolution shall become effective immediately.
APPROVED and ADOPTED this 17" day of June 2026
TOWN OF COPPERTON
C\
By: ™
Sean ‘} i Mayor
ATTEST
Diana Baun, Clerk
Voting:
Councilmember Stitzer voting WP ESEIOT
Councilmember Bailey voting NR
Councilmember Pratt voting
Councilmember McCalmon voting
Mayor Clayton voting
2

pO ~~ nn
a,
a
) TOWN OF COPPERTON |
RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE
Effective June 17, 2026
ARTICLE I - GENERAL
A. Definitions. The following definitions will apply for the purposes of these Rules:
1. “Agenda” means the agenda prepared by Staff for any given Meeting.
2. “Clerk” means the Copperton Town Clerk.
3. “Code of Conduct” means those rules and procedures regarding the conduct of
Councilmembers set forth in Article IV below.
4. “Council” means the Copperton Town Council.
5. “Councilmember” means a member of the Council.
6. “Including” means “including but not limited to” or “without limitation.”
7. “May” means an action is permissive.
8. “May not” means an action is prohibited. .
° 9. “Mayor” means the Mayor of the Town of Copperton.
10. “Meeting” means any regular, special, or other meeting of the Council, including public
hearings. :
11. “Rules” means these Rules of Order and Procedure.
12. “Staff? means the employees, contractors, and agents that are authorized to represent
and act on behalf of the Town as employees, contractors, or service providers, including
but not limited to the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District.
13. “Stakeholders” means service providers that supply services to the Town, including the
Unified Police Department, the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area, the .
Unified Fire Authority, the Unified Fire Service Area, the Copperton Improvement
District, the Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District, etc.
14. “Town” means the Town of Copperton.
15. “Will” means an action is mandatory or required.
:

B. Quorum. Three Councilmembers will constitute a quorum to conduct business in a
Meeting, including the Mayor who is a regular and voting member of the Council pursuant
: to Utah Code § 10-3b-402.
C. Mayor Pro Tempore. The Council will select the Mayor pro tempore by a majority vote
at the first Meeting in January.
ARTICLE I -— AGENDA ITEMS AND CREATION
A. Agenda Development Process. Councilmembers, Staff, Stakeholders, and members of the
public will follow the following schedule in proposing items for regular Meetings and
providing related documents and materials to the Clerk and Mayor:
’ | Conclusion of each regular Meeting Items for future Meeting Agenda are identified
Three (3) weeks before next regular Meeting Clerk distributes a first draft of the Agenda based on the items
identified at prior regular Meeting
5:00 p.m. on 14" calendar day before next The following are due to the Mayor and Clerk:
regular Meeting
= All Agenda items not included in the Initial Agenda that
require Council approval of a document (e.g., resolutions;
ordinances, policies, contracts, agreements, staff reports,
etc.), excluding Planning Commission items; and
. = All public hearing items requiring more than 24 hours’
notice (budgets, fees, officer compensation, etc.).
The Mayor or Clerk will forward documents requiring legal
review to the Town Attorney as soon as reasonably practicable
5:00 p.m. on the 8" calendar day before the The following are due to the Mayor and Clerk:
next regular Meeting
= All Agenda items that do not require Council approval of a
document; and
= Planning Commission Agenda items
Staff, Stakeholders, and members of the public may not
propose additional Agenda items after this date
5:00 p.m. on the 7 calendar day before the The following are due to the Mayor and Clerk:
next regular Meeting
= All PowerPoint presentations and any other Meeting
materials;
= Documents from the Town Attorney; and
= All Planning Commission documents requiring Council
approval
4

Documents, presentations, and other materials received after
| this date will not be included in the Meeting packet, and late
: submissions may require removal of the related item from the
| Agenda .
| 5:00 p.m. on 6" calendar day before the next Clerk distributes the second draft Agenda and draft Meeting
| regular Meeting packet
5:00 p.m. on the 4" calendar day before the Councilmembers provide final suggested edits to the second
next regular Meeting draft Agenda and Meeting packet to the Mayor and Clerk
No later than 24 hours before the next regular | Clerk posts the final Agenda and Meeting packet
Meeting

B. Decision-making Authority. The Mayor will have final decision-making authority to
determine which items and related materials are included in a final Agenda and Meeting
packet; provided, however, that two Councilmembers may require the Clerk to include an
item in the final Agenda.

C. Late Agenda Items. All Agenda items that Staff, Stakeholders, and members of the public
do not submit in a timely manner, will be held until the following Meeting.
Councilmembers may, however, submit additional Agenda items and materials after the
date for submissions has passed but will strive to submit Agenda items in a timely manner.

D. Exceptions. The Mayor, or two Councilmembers, may in their sole discretion grant
exceptions to the schedule in Section A for Staff, Stakeholders, and members of the public
if the Mayor or two Councilmembers find that emergencies, extenuating circumstances, or
other justifiable reasons warrant the exception.

E. Use of Document Sharing Software. The Clerk may use a reputable electronic document
sharing software program (e.g., SharePoint or Teams) the Council has authorized to
distribute Agendas and the Meeting packets to the Council and Staff. The Mayor or the
Council may authorize the Clerk to share Agendas, meeting packets, and related materials
with specific Stakeholders. Provided, however, that the Mayor and Clerk will consult with
the Town Attorney to ensure that unauthorized Stakeholders or members of the public do
not receive confidential, private, or protected records, which the Clerk shall provide to the
Council and applicable Staff and authorized Stakeholders in coordination with the Town

| Attorney.

F. Conflicts with State Law and Town Ordinance. Public notice requirements in State law
| or Town ordinance will control over any conflicting internal deadlines in this Article.
ARTICLE Il —- CONDUCT OF MEETINGS

A. Regular Meeting. The Council will schedule regular Meetings in advance by
resolution on an annual basis. The schedule will set the time and place of the regular
Meeting which will be held typically on the third Wednesday of each month. The

5

Mayor or the Mayor Pro Tempore will call the Meéting to order at the time scheduled,
preserve order at the Meeting, and conduct the Meeting as stated on the Agenda and in
compliance with applicable ordinances and these Rules.

B. Special Meetings. Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-502, the Mayor or two
Councilmembers may order the convening of a special Meeting of the Council.

1. Each order convening a special Meeting of the Council shall: (i) be entered in the
minutes of the Council; and (ii) provide at least three hours’ notice of the special
Meeting. ,

2. The Clerk will serve notice of the special Meeting on each Councilmember who
did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally or by leaving it at the
member's usual place of abode.

‘3. The personal appearance by a Councilmember at a special Meeting of the Council
constitutes a waiver of the notice required under this Subsection.

| C. Emergency Meetings. Public notice requirements may be disregarded for an

| emergency Meeting pursuant to Utah Code § 52-4-202(5).

|

: D. Work Sessions. A work session may precede or be included in the regular Meeting for

| the Council to ask questions or receive input from Staff or others on Agenda items or
other matters. The work session may be informal. No final action will be taken on any
item discussed during a work session.

E. Public Comments at Regular Meeting. At every regular Meeting of the Council, there
will be an Agenda item titled “Public Comment” near the beginning of the Meeting to
allow any member of the public to speak to the Council on any matter of public concern
regardless if the item is identified on the Agenda for action.

1. Ifany member of the public provides comment on a matter that is set for action later
on the Agenda, the Mayor may identify the public comment as part of the record for
that Agenda action but only at the time set for discussion.

2. The Council may not take final action on any unscheduled matter identified during
the public comment portion of the Agenda, but any Councilmember may ask

. questions, give recommendations to the Mayor, or request that a matter be placed on
the Agenda at a later Meeting.

3. To ensure fairness and neutrality, the Mayor will limit public comments to a
maximum of three minutes per individual. The Mayor will govern the conduct of the
public comments to prevent outward displays of support or opposition to those ,

| speaking and prohibit allocations of time by one commenter to another.

F. General Meeting Procedure. The matters will proceed in the order specified on the

Agenda. A motion to amend the Agenda will be made by the Councilmember requesting .

a change of order to the Agenda and seconded, with the majority of the Council in

attendance in favor of amending the Agenda. All Meetings will be conducted fairly,

efficiently, and respectfully. The Mayor or Mayor Pro Tempore has discretion to conduct
the Meeting consistent with these goals.
iG. Consent Agenda. If there is a routine or uncontested matter that requires approval, the

Council may vote to approve each item as a group on the consent Agenda without

extensive discussion. Any Councilmember may request that any consent Agenda item

be removed from consideration and reviewed individually. If a consent Agenda item is
placed on the regular Agenda, the Council will vote separately on the item or by motion
may table the consent Agenda item by a nondebatable motion to set it for a future

Meeting.

H. Conduct of Meetings in Accordance with Agenda. The Meeting is governed by the

Agenda, and the Agenda constitutes the Council’s ordered list of items for discussion

or decision. Final action may be taken on any action item that is in the open Meeting

and on the Agenda.
| 1. The Mayor will clearly announce the numbered Agenda item and clearly state the
| subject of the Agenda item.
|
! 2. The Mayor may invite the appropriate person, who may be the Mayor, a
| Councilmember, the Clerk, or Staff, or an invited person, to provide input,
; recommendations, or a report on the Agenda item.

3. The Mayor may request a Councilmember to address germane questions for
clarification to the person who provided input or a report. The person wil] be
given time to respond.

4. Ata public hearing, the Mayor will open the public hearing for public input and
announce the time. After hearing public input, the Mayor will close the public
hearing and announce the time.

5. With or without the Mayor’s invitation for a motion, a Councilmember may make
a motion for action on the action Agenda item. The Mayor will identify the maker
of the motion.

6. The Mayor will recognize the second to the motion and identify the maker of the
second, if made. If no Councilmember makes a motion to second the original
motion, the Agenda item is considered concluded without decision, and the Council

. moves on to the next Agenda item, unless another motion is made.

7. The Mayor will announce the motion and its second or request the maker of the

motion to repeat it or request the Clerk or Town Attorney to repeat the motion.
: 7

8. The Mayor will declare that now is the time on the Agenda to discuss the motion. If
no discussion occurs or after discussion, the Mayor will announce that the Council
will vote on the motion.

9. The Mayor may repeat the motion if there has been substantial discussion to clarify
the purpose of the motion and vote.

10. In the event ofa tie vote or a nay vote, such votes will be roll call votes for the purposes
of the minutes.

11. The Mayor will announce the result of the vote and what action has been taken, if
any.

12. The person(s) who sets an Agenda item, whether the Mayor or two Councilmembers,
may withdraw that Agenda item from consideration by communicating the withdrawal
to the Mayor prior to the commencement of the Meeting.

13. During the Meeting, the Mayor will announce that the item has been pulled from the
Agenda and why.

I. Initial Presentation Procedures. After an initial input or report on an Agenda item, the

Mayor or any Councilmember may ask germane questions of the person who provided

the input or report and review documents and information as necessary to understand the

issue.
J. Motions Required for Council Action. To act on any Agenda item under consideration,

a Councilmember will make the motion to approve the action item or adopt the ordinance,

resolution, or rule. The motion will receive a second from another Councilmember. Any

motion to approve requires the majority of the Council or three votes to pass. In the
| absence of a second to a motion, the motion to approve fails, and the Agenda item is
| concluded without decision unless another motion is made. There can be no more than
| three motions on the floor at the same time. The vote will proceed first on the last motion
| made.
1. Initial Motion. Any Councilmember may make an initial motion on an Agenda item.
| Prior to voting on the initial motion, the Council may discuss or debate the motion
| fully. Each Councilmember will be given the opportunity to discuss the motion
beginning with the Councilmember making the motion and the Councilmember
| making the second to the motion. The remaining Councilmembers then will be
allowed to discuss. After each Councilmember has had the opportunity to discuss
once, the Mayor may ask for another round of discussion. The Mayor will then close
the discussion and call for the vote. The Mayor may limit the length of the discussion
for fairness, orderliness, and efficiency. The Mayor may call the question to vote on
the matter if a motion has been made and seconded. Any other Councilmember may
also call the question to vote on the matter.
’ .
: 8

° 2. Motion to Withdraw. At any time prior to voting, the same Councilmember who made °
the initial motion to approve the action item or adopt the ordinance, resolution, or rule
may, without a second or a vote, withdraw the motion.

3. Motion to Amend. Any Councilmember may amend an initial motion but it requires
a second by a Councilmember. The motion to amend must be germane to the initial
motion. The Council may debate or discuss and will vote on the amended motion
prior to voting on the initial motion. If the motion to amend the initial motion has
been seconded and passes, the Mayor will allow debate and action on the amended
motion. Ifthe motion to amend fails, the Mayor will bring the initial motion back to
debate in its original format, not amended.

4. Motion to Substitute. Any Councilmember may make a new and different motion,
known as a substitute motion, which is not germane to the subject under consideration
in the initial motion or the motion to amend the initial motion. The motion to
substitute requires a second. If a Councilmember questions the characterization of the
motion as a substitute motion, the Mayor will designate the type of motion made,
either a motion to amend or a motion to substitute, which is the final determination.
After discussion and debate on the substitute motion, which is the most recent motion
on the floor, a vote will be taken. If the substitute motion passes, the initial motion
or motion to amend is eliminated. The substitute motion thus completes the Agenda

. item. If the substitute motion fails, the Mayor now opens the debate on the initial

motion, or the motion to amend the initial motion. If the motion to amend passes, the
Mayor will bring the initial motion back to the debate as amended. If the motion to
amend fails, the Mayor will bring the initial motion back to debate in its original
format, not amended.

:

| 5. General Consent. The Mayor may use general consent or unanimous consent to
dispense with any motion if it appears the Council is all in agreement. The Mayor

| will first determine there are no objections to the general consent motion before

| the motion is approved.

| K. Nondebatable Motions. The Mayor will immediately call for a vote of the Council

| without debate on the following motions made and seconded. A majority vote is

required to approve the motion.

1. Motion to Adjourn. A motion to adjourn requires the Council to adjourn immediately
to its next regularly scheduled Meeting and requires a majority vote pursuant to Utah
Code § 10-3-507.

2. Motion to Fix the Time to Adjourn. A motion that requires the Council to

, adjourn the Meeting to a specific time identified in the motion requires only a
motion and a second to the motion as provided in Utah Code § 10-3-507.

3. Motion to Recess. A motion that requires the Council to immediately take a
recess with the length of time identified in the motion.

|
|
| 9

4. Motion to Table. A motion that requires Council discussion of the Agenda item to
cease and the Agenda item placed on indefinite hold unless the motion contains a
specific time for the return of the Agenda item at a future Meeting upon the order of
the Mayor or two Councilmembers. ‘

5. Call for Previous Question. A motion that requires the Council to cut off debate and
put the matter to a vote. The motion is frequently “I move the previous question” or
“T call the question.” If the previous question motion is made and seconded, the
Mayor will stop debate and call for the vote on the motion to limit debate.

6. Call for Orders of the Day. Any Councilmember may call for orders of the day to
return the discussion to the Agenda. This motion does not require a vote.

7. Action Items. For information requests or specific assignments to Staff, the
Council may act informally or by consensus without a motion.

L. Voting. Any matter brought for legislative action before the Council by motion must be
decided by an affirmative vote or negative vote of a majority of the Council. Any action
by the Council requires three yes votes to pass.

1. On any motion to approve an ordinance, resolution, or rule which creates financial
obligations of the Town, the vote will be recorded as a roll call vote.

2. On any motion to approve, if the voice vote tally is unclear, or if there is even one

“Nay vote, the entire vote will be recorded as a roll call vote.

3. Ifa Councilmember makes the motion to approve which is seconded and then it fails,
a Councilmember may request an entry of findings of fact and conclusions of law to
be included into the motion and the record. The Council may move to recess to allow
the Town Attorney to prepare the findings of fact and conclusions of law to be
included in the motion or to table for consideration at a future Meeting.

M. Closed Meetings. The Council may hold a closed Meeting pursuant to Utah Code §
52-4-205 for certain purposes only. On the public notice required pursuant to Utah
Code Subsection 52-4-202(1), the public notice will include the Meeting Agenda,
which will include an Agenda item to go into a closed Meeting, even if not acted upon
at each Meeting.

1. Any Councilmember may make the motion to convene a closed Meeting, and in the
open Meeting, will state the reasons for the motion. The motion will be secorided.

The Council will approve the motion by a two-thirds vote of the Councilmembers
present prior to convening the closed Meeting.

2. The motion to enter a closed Meeting will specifically state at least one of the
following grounds as provided in Utah Code § 52-4-205(1). A closed Meeting may

10

: }
: only be held for: ,
i. discussion of the character, professional competence, or physical or mental
health of an individual, except to fill a midterm vacancy or temporary absence
which occurs in open Meeting;

ii. strategy sessions to discuss collective bargaining;

iii. strategy sessions to discuss pending or reasonably imminent litigation;

iv. strategy sessions to discuss the purchase, exchange, or lease of real property,
including any form of a water rights or water shares, to discuss a proposed
development agreement, project proposal, or financing proposal related to the
development of land owned by the state, if public discussion would disclose the
appraisal or estimated value of the property under consideration or prevent the
Council from completing the transaction on the best possible terms;

v. strategy sessions to discuss the sale of real property, including any form of a
water right or water shares, if the public discussion of the transaction would
disclose the appraisal or estimated value of the property under consideration
or prevent the Council from completing the transaction on the best possible

‘ terms when the Council previously gave public notice that the property would
be offered for sale and the terms of the sale are publicly disclosed before the
Council approves the sale;
vi. discussion regarding deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems;
vii. investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal misconduct; or
viii. deliberations concerning an evaluation, protest, or appeal concerning
procurement matters as provided in Utah Code §§ 52-4-205(1) (m), (n), or (0).

3. Atthe conclusion of the closed Meeting discussion, the Mayor will request a motion
and a second to adjourn the closed Meeting and return to the open Meeting.

N. Reconsideration. Only a Councilmember who is in the majority on a vote may make a
motion to reconsider or rescind any action taken. Any Councilmember may second the
motion. If approved by a majority, the original Agenda item will be reconsidered or
rescinded in the current Meeting or placed on the next Council or special Meeting Agenda
for reconsideration and discussion.

1. At the time of reconsideration, the Council may discuss and debate the initial motion
as if it were on the floor for the first time. The number of Councilmembers present
must be equal to or greater than the number of Councilmembers present when the
matter was first considered in compliance with Utah Code § 10-3-508.

11

| .
: 2. If reconsideration would cancel or abrogate a binding obligation of the Town, the’
, Town Attorney will provide a legal opinion to the Council on the subject prior to any
action on reconsideration.

3. At the time of reconsideration, if a motion to rescind the action is made and
seconded, the Town Attorney will provide a legal opinion to the Council on the
subject prior to any action on the motion to rescind. ,

4. Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-508, the Council may not reconsider or rescind
a prior adopted motion at a special Meeting unless the number of
Councilmembers present at the special Meeting is equal to or greater than the
number of members present at the Meeting when the action was approved.

O. Public Hearings at Meetings. The Council will conduct a public hearing during its

Meeting to consider an annexation, the adoption or any modification of a land use

regulation, zoning text, or zoning map, the tentative budget, any bond issuance, or any

truth in taxation hearing pursuant to Utah Code § 59-2-919. The’Council may also elect
to hold a public hearing on a matter even if it is not required by law.
P. Rules of Procedure for Public Hearings. These Rules apply to all public hearings. The

Clerk will make the Rules available to members of the public who attend the public

| hearing and on the Town’s public website.

| Q. Formal Nature of Public Hearings. A public hearing may be more formal than other
portions of the Meeting to protect the due process rights of the applicant and any other
participant.

1. If a Staff report is generated prior to the public hearing, the applicant will be
provided with a copy of the Staff report within a reasonable period of time prior to
the public hearing.

2. The matter will be introduced by Staff and followed by testimony from the applicant
at the applicant’s discretion. Any interested person will then be given the opportunity
to provide testimony for or against the matter. At the conclusion of testimony by
interested persons, the applicant will be given the opportunity to offer rebuttal
testimony.

3. Any person providing testimony will be requested to state the person’s name and
address, state clearly the person’s position on the matter subject to review; and
provide testimony, information, or data in support. ;

4. Any person other than the applicant may provide testimony only once during a
specific public hearing, including public hearings that are postponed or continued for
future Meetings.

5. The Mayor may limit the length of testimony or allocate available time equitably for

12

ee EE a ne re EEE EEE EE SS
any interested person who requests to testify. ,
6. Any testimony, evidence, documents, photographs, or other information received by
the Council will be entered into the record of proceedings. The Council has the
discretion to postpone action on a public hearing item, and it may continue to receive
additional written comments or other evidence until such time as the Mayor closes
the public hearing or reschedules the public hearing.
7. At the conclusion of the public hearing, the Council may consider the matter and
engage in discussion and debate as necessary. Although the rules of evidence do not
apply to public hearings, Councilmembers have discretion to weigh the evidence and
measure the credibility of the testimony by a preponderance of the evidence.
8. The Council may make a final decision at the close of the public hearing, except that
the Council may, in some circumstances:
i. announce its findings of fact and conclusions of law in support of the
decision orally on the record; or
ii. give directions to Staff to prepare a written order, permit, or decision
consistent with the Council findings, which the Council may adopt or modify ,
at a future Meeting.

R. Modification of Rules. To the extent these Rules conflict with any other law or statute,
the other law or statute will prevail. The Council or the presiding officer has discretion
to modify these rules or the procedures under these rules to the extent necessary to
accommodate the needs of a particular situation or changes in the law. The adoption of
these rules may not be deemed to confer any specific substantive or procedural rights
upon any person participating at a Council hearing or Meeting.

S. Adjournment. The Council may vote to adjourn the Meeting by motion and a second

} without hearing all matters on the Agenda by a majority vote. Any matter not heard may
be rescheduled on the next available Agenda. The Council may also adjourn at any time
if disruptive conduct at a Meeting prevents orderly action.

T. Compelling Councilmember Attendance. Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-505, the
Council may compel the attendance of its own members at its Meetings and provide '
penalties it considers necessary for the failure to comply with an exercise of the authority
to compel attendance.

U. Requiring Attendance of Witnesses, Production of Evidence. The Council may
require the attendance of any person to give testimony or produce records, documents, or
things for inspection, copying, or examination necessary or useful to the governance of :
the municipality. The Council may by ordinance establish its own procedures for issuing
subpoenas to require attendance or production in the same manner as provided in the Utah
Rules of Civil Procedure and through the assistance of the Town Attorney.

13

V. Conduct of Mayor During Meetings. The Mayor will:
I. Preside at and conduct Meetings;
2. Is aregular and votirig member of the Council pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-402;
3. Participate in discussion of any matter;
4. Have no power to veto;
5. Possess primary responsibility to enforce the Rules;
6. Maintain the dignity of Meetings;
7. Call the Meeting to order and confine discussion to the Agenda;
8. Permit Staff and public participation at appropriate times;
9. Require knowledge of the Rules;
10. Ensure compliance with the Rules;
11. Ensure compliance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act;
12. Advise or courteously discourage any member who talks disproportionately to
other members, including imposing a time limit on Council reports;
13. Ensure those who have the floor are not interrupted;
14. Make the ruling ifa member is out of order or noncompliant with these Rules;
and
15. Exercise any other applicable power designated to the Mayor under State law
or Town ordinance.
W. Written Minutes. The Clerk will keep written minutes and a recording of all open
Meetings. Written minutes will include the date, time, place of Meeting, the names of
members present and absent, the substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or decided
| by the Council which may include a summary of comments made by members of the
| Council. Any member of the Council may request any other information or record of the
: proceeding to be entered in the minutes or recorded at the open Meeting. The written
minutes are intended to be a summary document of the Agenda items acted upon and
! related discussions, not a transcript or verbatim summary of comments made by
Councilmembers.
14

, X. Online Version of Minutes. An online version of the Council minutes may satisfy the
requirements that minutes include “the substance of all matters proposed, discussed, or
decided or the substance of testimony or comments” if maintained and publicly
available online by providing a link to the Meeting recording as required in Utah Code
Subsection 52-4-203 (2)(b).

Y. Parliamentarian. The Town Attorney shall serve as the parliamentarian for the
Council and its Meetings, and shall recommend rulings, upon request by the presiding
officer, to all points of order raised during the proceedings.

ARTICLE IV — CODE OF CONDUCT

A. Applicability. The “Code of Conduct,” set forth in this Article, applies both in and
out of Meetings to the Council and the members of all Town boards, committees,
and commissions to ensure public confidence in the integrity of local government
and its effective, open, and fair operation. To the extent applicable, the Code of
Conduct will also apply to Staff, Stakeholders, and the public. If there is a conflict
between the Code of Conduct as set forth in these Rules and the rules of order and
procedure of any other Town board, commission, or committee, these Rules will
govern.

B. Actin the Public Interest. Recognizing that stewardship of the public interest must be
their primary concern, Councilmembers will work for the common good of the people
of the Town and not for any private or personal interest, and they will ensure fair and
equal treatment to all persons, claims and transactions coming before the Council,
boards, committees, and commissions.

C. Comply with the Law. Councilmembers will comply with the laws of the nation, the
| State of Utah, and the Town in the performance of their public duties. These laws include
: the United States and Utah Constitutions; the Copperton Municipal Code; statutory

provisions pertaining to conflicts of interest, election campaigns, financial disclosures,
employer responsibilities, and open processes of government, including the Utah Public
Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act, Utah Code, Title 67, Chapter 16; and Town
policies and procedures.

D. Conduct of Councilmembers. The professional and personal conduct of
Councilmembers must be above reproach and avoid even the appearance of impropriety.
Councilmembers will refrain from rudeness, disrespectful comments, insults, name-
calling, abusive conduct, personal charges, or verbal attacks upon the character or
motives of other Councilmembers, the Mayor, the Mayor Pro Tempore, boards,
committees, commissions, Staff, or the public.

E. Respect for Process. Councilmembers will perform their duties in accordance with the
processes and the applicable rules of order and procedure as established by the Mayor,
Council, board, committees, and commissions governing the deliberation of public
policy issues, meaningful involvement of the public, and implementation of policy

15

, decisions of the Council by Staff.

F. Conduct at Public Meetings. Councilmembers will prepare themselves for public
issues in the Meeting, listen courteously and attentively to all public discussions before
the body, and focus on the business at hand. They will refrain from interrupting other
speakers, making personal comments not germane to the business of the body, or
otherwise interfering with the orderly conduct of Meetings. Everyone should feel safe
in expressing their opinions, views, and concerns. Clapping, shouting, and booing
during Meetings are not permitted. All persons attending a Public Meeting will obey
any lawful order of the person chairing the Meeting to enforce these Rules and the Code
of Conduct.

G. Board Representation. When representing the Town or Council on any board or
similar organization, Councilmembers will endeavor, to the best of their abilities, to
vote according to the will of the Council on those matters for which the Council has
taken an official position. In the absence of an official position by the Council,
Councilmembers will exercise their best judgment to determine how best to vote in
accordance with the best interests of the Town.

H. Conflict of Interest. To ensure their independence and impartiality on behalf of the
common good, Councilmembers may not use their official positions to influence
governmental decisions in which they have a material financial interest, or where
they have an organizational responsibility or personal relationship, which may give
the appearance of a conflict of interest. In accordance with law, Councilmembers
will disclose investments, interests in real property, sources of income, gifts, and any
related conflicts of interest prior to any Meetings on the matter. After disclosing the
conflict of interest, the Councilmember shall not vote on the matter and shall not .
speak during the Meeting on the matter under consideration, unless the majority of
the remaining Councilmembers determine by a majority vote that adequate
consideration of the matter requires responses from the Councilmember with the

| conflict. Councilmembers with a conflict of interest will also not attempt to influence
other Town officials or Staff outside of the Meeting.

I. Independence of Boards, Committees and Commissions. Because of the value of the
independent advice of boards, committees, and commissions to the public decision-
making process, Councilmembers will refrain from using their elected positions to
unduly influence the deliberations or outcomes of board, committee, commission, and
Staff deliberation proceedings.

J. Positive Workplace Environment. Councilmembers will support the maintenance of a
positive and constructive workplace environment for Staff and for citizens and
businesses dealing with the Town. Councilmembers will recognize their special role in
dealing with Staff but without giving inappropriate direction to Staff. -

K. Compliance and Enforcement. The Code of Conduct is intended to be self-enforcing.
| It therefore becomes most effective when Councilmembers are thoroughly familiar with
16
;

it and embrace its provisions. The Code of Conduct expresses standards for ethical
conduct expected of the Mayor and Councilmembers, boards, committees, and
commissions. Councilmembers themselves have the primary responsibility to ensure
that ethical standards are understood and met, and that the public can continue to have
full confidence in the integrity of government. The Mayor and the persons who chair

Town boards, committees, and commissions have the responsibility to intervene when

actions of Councilmembers are witnessed or reported that appear to be in violation of

the Code of Conduct.

1. Sanctions The Council by a two-thirds vote may also impose sanctions on
Councilmembers whose conduct does not comply with the Town’s ethical standards
and applicable law in accordance with the following:

i. Official verbal reprimand in an open Meeting if the Councilmember
continuously causes disruptions during a Meeting and does not appropriately
respond to a simple warning.

ii. Formal public letter of censure by Mayor, the person chairing the Meeting, or
majority of the Council or body.

iii. |Loss of any committee assignment.

2. Official Warning and Temporary Suspension The person chairing a Meeting will
issue an official warning before taking further action in response to the following
actions by a Councilmember, Staff, Stakeholders, or the public who does any of the

following:

i. Repeatedly begins speaking without being recognized by the person chairing ,

! the Meeting;
)
| ii. Engages in attacking insults; or

iii. Engages in boisterous conduct, including applause, whistling, stamping of
feet, booing, or making any loud, threatening, profane, abusive, personal,
impertinent, slanderous, or obscene utterance that disturbs, disrupts, or

: otherwise impedes the conduct of the Meeting.

iv. The warning will clearly identify the inappropriate behavior and the potential
consequences that will arise if such behavior persists, provide the warned
individual with an opportunity to correct the conduct, before the Town takes
more serious action, including temporary removal from the premises. The
Council will issue this warning by a majority vote.

3. Expulsion of Councilmembers Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-607, the Council may,
by a two-thirds vote, fine or expel any Councilmember from a Meeting or suspend
that Councilmember’s attendance at subsequent Meetings if the person violates the

17 ;
4

Code of Conduct, violates the law or Town ordinance, or otherwise engages in
disorderly conduct during the Meeting, fails to disclose a direct or indirect financial
conflict of interest regarding the issue discussed at or action proposed to be taken
during the Meeting, or commits a crime during the Meeting.
4. Expulsion of Non-Councilmembers. Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3-608 and Utah
Code § 52-4-301, the Council may expel from a Meeting any person who violates
the Code of Conduct or who is disorderly during a Meeting by a two-thirds vote.
ARTICLE V — COUNCIL OVERSIGHT AND REVISIONS
The Council may revise these Rules as needed at any time by majority vote.
(
§
| ,
,
|
f
| |
|
: 4 |
