COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ORDINANCE # 2017- || = &\
November 15, 2017
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Copperton Metro Township Council (the
“Council”) met in a regular public meeting on November 15, 2017.
WITNESS

A. WHEREAS, the Copperton Metro Township (“Copperton”) was established to
give the residents of Copperton greater control over the affairs of their community; and

B. WHEREAS, Section 10-8-4 authorizes Copperton to “fix the amount, terms, and
manner of issuing licenses;” and

C. WHEREAS, until such time as the Council enacts Copperton-specific business
licenses, the ordinances of Salt Lake County (the “County”), as set forth in Title 5 of the Salt
Lake County Municipal Code, will regulate business licenses within Copperton; and

D. WHEREAS, the Council finds that the County’s ordinances regarding business
licenses do not currently account for the creation of Copperton or the other metro townships; and

E. WHEREAS, County staff has prepared the attached revised version of Title 5 to
make the title a stand-alone, Copperton-specific ordinance; and

F. WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the revised version of Title 5 and desires
to adopt it as a stand-alone, Copperton-specific ordinance, pending reformatting to designate the
ordinance as Title 1, Chapter 1 of the Copperton Metro Township Municipal Code; and

G. WHEREAS, the Council desires to review this ordinance after one year to
determine if additional changes are needed to better address the needs and interests of Copperton
and its residents.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP AS FOLLOWS:

1. Pursuant to Section 10-8-4 of the Utah Code, the Council hereby adopts the
attached, revised version of Title 5 of the Salt Lake County Municipal Code as a stand-alone,
Copperton-specific ordinance.

2. The Council instructs the County staff assigned to Copperton to reformat the
ordinance as Title 1, Chapter 1 of the Copperton Metro Township Municipal Code.

Ordinance # 2017-|\-O\Page 1 of 58

3. This ordinance will take effect when County staff have reformatted the chapter
headings.

4. The Council will review the ordinance after one year to determine if further
changes are needed to better address the needs and interests of Copperton and its residents.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah this

\5 day of WWaVeWWoet 2017.
Ron Patrick, Council Chair
17 7
ATIRST . ¢
>= A i 4 A es oa co waa
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Bailey voting byw
Council Member Baxter voting pie
Council Member Clayton voting Mie
Council Member Patrick voting AN i
Council Member Stitzer voting Mw
Ordinance # 2017-||-0\ Page 2 of 58

Title 1 - BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
Chapters:

Chapter 1.01 - LICENSE OFFICE AND LICENSE OFFICIAL
Sections:

1.01.010 - Definitions.

Whenever used in this title:

"Alcoholic beverages" means and includes beer and liquor, as they are defined herein.

"Beer" means and includes "light beer," "malt liquor," or "malted beverages," and all products that contain
63/100 of one percent of alcohol by volume or one-half of one percent of alcohol by weight, but not more than four
percent of alcohol by volume or 3.2 percent by weight, and are obtained by fermentation, infusion or decoction of
any malted grain. Beer may or may not contain hops or other vegetable products.

"Beer-only restaurant" means a place of business in connection with a bona fide restaurant wherein beer is sold
for consumption on the premises in open containers in any size not to exceed two liters capacity and on draft, in
conjunction with an order of food that is prepared, sold and served at the restaurant.

"Club, Dining" means a club that has dining facilities and maintains at least sixty percent of its sales from food,
and which operates under a State Club Liquor License issued pursuant to Utah Code Part 32B-6-4.

"Club, Equity” means a club that is owned by its members and run by a board of directors elected by the
members, such as a country club, and which operates under a State Club Liquor License issued pursuant to Utah
Code Part 32B-6-4.

"Club, Fraternal" means a mutual benefit or patriotic association that is organized under a lodge system, and
which operates under a State Club Liquor License issued pursuant to Utah Code Part 32B-6-4.

"Club, Social" means a general purpose club, which includes a nightclub that serves liquor, in which a variety
of food is prepared and served in connection with dining accommodations, and which operates under a State Club
Liquor License issued pursuant to Utah Code Part 32B-6-4.

“Director” means the director of Salt Lake County planning and development services, or a designated agent of
the director.

"License department" means the license office of the county planning and development services division of
Public Works and Municipal Services.

"License official" means the director of Salt Lake County planning and development services, or a designated
agent of the director.

"Liquor" means:

1. Alcohol, or an alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented malt or other liquid, or combination of liquids, a
part of which is spirituous, vinous or fermented, and all other drinks or drinkable liquids that contain
more than one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume and are suitable to use for beverage purposes.

2. "Liquor" does not include any beverage defined as a beer, malt liquor or malted beverage that has an
alcohol content of less than four percent alcohol by volume.

“Metro” means the Copperton Metro Township.

“Metro chair” means the chairperson of the Copperton Metro Township Council.

“Metro council” means the Copperton Metro Township Council.

"On-premise beer tavern" means a tavern, beer bar, parlor, lounge, cabaret, or nightclub where only beer is sold
for consumption on the premises in any size of open container not exceeding two liters, on draft, and where the
revenue from the sale of beer exceeds the revenue of the sale of food, although food need not be sold in such
establishments.

"Resort license establishment" means a resort building affiliated with a ski area that abuts the building, which
building has at least four hundred thousand square feet, and one hundred fifty dwellings or lodging accommodations
of which fifty percent must be owned by a person other than the resort licensee, and which has a state license for the
storage, sale, service, and consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises.

1.01.030 - License official—Powers and duties.

The license official shall assess each licensee in accordance with the provisions of this title and applicable
statutes of Utah, shall receive all license fees required herein to be paid, and shall keep and maintain a suitable index
of licensees.

Chapter 1.02 - PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING LICENSE

Sections:

1.02.010 - License—Required to carry on business.

A. Unless exempted by state or federal law, it is unlawful for any person to engage in or operate any business in
the metro, or to use any property for such business, without first obtaining the required license from the license
official. Independent contractors are required to obtain their own business license.

B. This title shall not apply to lemonade stands and similar operations run by children.

1.02.020 - Persons subject to licensing.

A. Any person or corporation engaged in a business or occupation, or which performs or attempts to perform a
business or occupation in the metro, shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter if, either personally or
through an agent, employee or partner, the person or corporation actively or passively solicits patronage
therefor. Independent contractors are individually subject to this chapter.

B. For purposes of this section, a business includes rental of three or more residential dwellings at the same
location.

1.02.030 - License—Application—Contents.

A. In the absence of clear provisions to the contrary in specific chapters of this title, all applications for licenses
and permits required by ordinance shall be made in writing to the license official. Each application shall
provide all the following information:

1. The name of the business;

2. The name of the applicant;

3. The permit or license desired;

4. The location to be used, if any;

5. | The time covered and the fee to be paid;

6. The name and address of the business agent residing in the county who is authorized to receive:

a. Service of process, and
b. Any communication regarding applicant's license via certified mail, return receipt requested.

7. Such additional information as may be needed to assist the license official in issuing the permit or license.
B. Any change in the above information furnished by the license applicant shall be forwarded, in writing, within

ten calendar days of the change, to the license official.

C. Forms for all license and permits, and applications therefor, shall be prepared and kept on file by the license
official.

1.02.040 - License—Application—Fees, penalties and waivers.

A. Each application for a license under this title shall be accompanied by the license fee required for the desired
license.

B. In addition to the license fee regularly assessed, any applicant which shall have commenced doing business
prior to obtaining a valid license shail be assessed a penalty fee equal to:

1. | Twenty-five percent of the regular license fee if the applicant has operated without a license for less than
thirty days, or

2. One hundred percent of the regular license fee if the applicant has operated without a license for more
than thirty days during the year in question.

C. Any license which has been issued pursuant to payment by means of a check shall be void if such check is not
honored.

D. Applications received by the license official shall be numbered in the order of their receipt.

E. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (B), above, the imposition of penalty fees may be waived for:

1. | New businesses which have located in the metro and have not obtained a business license; and

2, Existing businesses which have been licensed by the license official and have been purchased by a new
owner who has not reapplied for a business license.

3. Penalty fees may be waived only upon the following conditions:

a. The business makes application for a business license within seven calendar days after being
notified by the license official that such a license is required; or the business voluntarily makes
application for a business license prior to notification by the license official; and

b. The business has either been located in the metro for less than two years or the purchase of the
business occurred less than two years prior to the business application.

F. Business license fees which are due for the current year or for prior years in which the business operated may
not be waived under any circumstances.

1.02.050 - Fees not to be refunded.

No license fee, or any part thereof, shall be refunded for any reason whatsoever, once the license has been

granted or issued.

1.02.060 - Application fee refunds.

A. Ifa license is denied for any reason, the applicant shall be entitled to a refund equal to the amount that
accompanied the application.

B. If, prior to a license being granted or issued, the application for a license is withdrawn by the applicant for any
reason, the sum of twenty-five dollars, or the total amount paid if Jess than twenty-five dollars, shall be
retained by the license official to offset the cost of processing the application. However, the metro council may
exercise discretion, to refund the entire application fee if deemed appropriate under the circumstances.

1.02.070 - Investigation of applicant.

A. Subject to section (B), where ordinances of the metro require an inspection or investigation before issuance of
a permit or license, the license official shall conduct such investigation within seven calendar days of the
applicant's filing of the application.

B. Except as provided in subsection (B)(1) below, when adequate investigation requires correspondence with
agencies or other sources of information outside the planning and development services division, or the license
applicant is not ready to be inspected, such investigation shall be completed within fifteen calendar days of the
applicant's filing of the application, or as soon as the license applicant is ready to be inspected.

1. When local law enforcement investigates the applicant, it shall complete its investigation within thirty
calendar days of the applicant's filing of the application. For such investigations, the applicant shall
provide a current copy of a criminal background check conducted by the Utah Bureau of Criminal
Identification (BCI).

C. The agency charged with conducting the investigation or inspection shall report the findings and
recommendations of the agency to the license official within seven calendar days after conducting the
investigation or inspection.

1.02.080 - License—Application—.

A. Applications shall be submitted to the license official, unless ordinances or policies of the metro require that
the application be first referred to another agency, such as the local law enforcement agency, Salt Lake County
Health Department, local fire agency, or other appropriate official or body for investigation.

B. The license official may within seven calendar days after receipt of the application submit the application for
additional investigation to one or more of the agencies listed in (A), above, if, in the opinion of the license
official, further investigation is warranted. Any such submittal shall include the license official's specific
concerns warranting further investigation. The purpose(s) for the investigation may include:

1. The general reputation of the licensee, including whether licensee has any outstanding arrest warrants,

2. | Whether such business is or has been conducted in a lawful manner,

3. The health and safety of the premises on which the business in conducted,

4. Other facts that the license official should know in acting upon the application, or

5. Investigation regarding specific concerns raised by the license official under Section 1.02.080(B).
1.02.100 - Report of investigations.

Upon being requested to do so by the license official, the local law enforcement agency, Salt Lake County
Health Department, local fire agency, or any other official or department so requested shall, within the time required
by Section 1.02.070, conduct the investigation and inspection provided for in this chapter and submit to the license
official a report on such investigation and inspection, and may provide recommendations as to whether the license
should be granted or denied.

1.02.110 - License—Application—Action by license official.

A. After receipt of the report, and if applicable the recommendations, of the local law enforcement agency, Salt
Lake County Health Department, local fire agency or other official or body, the license official shall grant or
deny the application as is just and proper, or may order further information or investigation if such appears
necessary.

B. If the agency charged with conducting an investigation or inspection has not issued a report of its findings and
recommendations to the license official within the timeframes required by this chapter, the license official may
grant or deny the application without the report.

1.02.120 - Compliance with building and zoning requirements.

A. No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit shall be issued for any activity if the
premises and building to be used for the purposes do not fully comply with the requirements of the metro.

B. No license or permit shail be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any act that would
violate building or zoning ordinances of the metro.

1.02.130 - License—A pplication—Approval.

The license official shall issue license certificates.

1.02.140 - License—Application—Denial conditions—Appeals.

A. The license official may deny a license or a license renewal if the applicant has:

1. Been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude;

2. Obtained a license by fraud or deceit;

3. Failed to pay personal property taxes, Utah state sales taxes, or other required fees;

4. Violated the laws of the state, the United States Government, the ordinances of the metro, or the rules and

regulations of any local government or Utah state agency governing operation of the business holding the
license or permit; or

5. An outstanding warrant for his or her arrest.

B. The reason for denial shall be endorsed on the license or renewal application and the license official shall
return to the applicant, via certified mail, any excess fees deposited with the application.

C. Notice shall be given that the applicant may appeal a denial within fourteen calendar days and appear before
the metro council or a licensed hearing examiner in accordance with Section 1.02.140 through 1.02.180, below,
to present reasons for setting aside denial of a license or renewal.

D. If the applicant presents adequate justification, the metro council may, in its discretion, set aside the denial and
approve the application.

1. Examples of "adequate justification" include but are not limited to:

a. The passage of a long period of time since the inappropriate or illegal act was committed;

b. Youth or immaturity of the applicant when the inappropriate or illegal act was committed;

c. Acts committed by others over whom the applicant lacked control.

d. Any error by the license official relating to taxes or other required fees or in determining that any
law or ordinance has been violated;

e. A disaster or Act of God precluding timely payment of taxes or other required fees, or making
compliance with any law or ordinance impossible; or

f. A good faith and reasonable dispute, not yet resolved, between the licensee and the license official
regarding the imposition or amount of taxes or other required fees, or of the application of a
particular law or ordinance.

1.02.150 - Appeal hearings.

A. Hearings on appeals to consider the revocation, suspension or denial of licenses shall be held by or at the
direction of the metro council. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other ordinance pertaining to hearings
before the metro council regarding business licenses, such hearings may be held either before the metro council
or before any hearing examiner who has been appointed by the metro council pursuant to Section 1.02.160.

B. The applicant may appear in person, or through an officer, agent, or attorney, to introduce evidence in the
applicant's behalf, and to confront and cross-examine witnesses. Any oral or documentary evidence may be
received, but all privileged, irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded.

C. An official record, which may be transcribed when necessary, shall be kept of each hearing.

1.02.160 - Hearings—Hearing examiner powers and duties.

A. The metro council may appoint one or more hearing examiners.

B. Any hearing examiner acting at the direction of the metro council shall have the power and authority to preside
at and conduct hearings on appeal to consider the suspension, revocation or denial of licenses issued by the
license official, including the power to examine witnesses and receive evidence, compel the attendance of
witnesses, and compel the production of documents.

C. Hearing examiners acting at the direction of the metro council shall have the authority to recommend findings
of fact, conclusions of law and orders, all based upon the evidence and testimony received, and shall transmit
to the metro council for review and final approval such recommended findings, ete.

D. The hearing examiner shall provide to the metro council a certified record of the entire proceedings.

1.02.170 - Hearings—Orders by metro council.

A. After a hearing on appeal to consider the status of any license has been held by the metro council, the metro
council may enter such findings of fact and conclusions of law, based upon the record of the hearing.

B. In cases where the hearing is held before a hearing examiner, the metro council, after review of the hearing
record, may adopt and enter the recommended findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, or may enter its
own findings of fact, conclusions of law and order supported by the record.

C. All orders entered by the metro council concerning the appeal of the denial, suspension or revocation of a
license shall be in writing and shall be final.

D. A licensee who seeks judicial review of the metro council's decision shall serve a copy of the complaint
seeking judicial review with both the metro council and the appropriate court. The metro council shall
promptly certify a copy of the record of hearing to the reviewing court.

1.02.180 - License—Effect of denial.

If at any time a license or renewal is denied under the provisions of this chapter, it shall thereafter be unlawful
for any person to engage in or carry on or operate or use or permit to be operated or used, any property for any
business with respect to which the license or renewal has been denied, until a license or renewal shall be granted by
the metro council upon appeal.

Chapter 1.03 - BOARD OF LICENSE EQUALIZATION

Sections:

1.03.010 — Metro Council—Powers and duties.

A. The Copperton Metro Township Council is hereby constituted a board of license equalization for the
equalization of license rates. The metro council (referred to throughout this chapter as "the board") shall have
authority to examine the assessments made by the license official, hear complaints of aggrieved parties, and
make changes in any assessments the board concludes to be illegal, unequal, or unjust.

B. Corrections made by the board shall be entered in detail in the record of license assessment kept by the license
official, and the board shall approve in writing such entries before the license official shall adjust the accounts.

1.03.020 - Board meetings.

The board shall meet as often as shall be necessary to complete the business of equalization. The date, time and
place of each meeting shall be set by the majority vote of the metro council during a regular session of the metro
council.

1.03.030 - Complaints on assessments—Deadline for presentation.

All complaints relative to an assessment made by the license official must be presented to the board within
thirty days of such assessment, or be forever barred.

Chapter 1.04 - INSPECTIONS

Sections:

1.04.010 - Officers authorized to examine and inspect businesses—Powers and duties.

A. The members of the local law enforcement agency, the license official, the members of the Salt Lake County
Health Department, and the head of the local fire agency and designated representatives, are hereby appointed
ex Officio license deputies who, in addition to the duties of their respective offices, are hereby authorized to:

1. Inspect all businesses licensed under the provisions of this title as their duty shall bring them into contact

with same,

2. See that licensed businesses are transacted in accordance with this title and other applicable law, and

3. Report to the license official the names of all persons doing business without a license, and instances of

conduct by any party or business other than that covered by the license issued.

1.04.020 - Inspections—Right of entry—Sampling of materials.

A. Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the operation of a licensed business or
occupation are provided for or required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with
any ordinance provision, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person in
charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit onto the premises any authorized officer, employee or agent of
the license office for the purpose of making the necessary inspection, at any reasonable time that admission is
requested.

B. Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to secure conformance with
ordinance provisions, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee whose business is
governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee requesting the same sufficient
samples of such material or commodity as are necessary for analysis.

1.04.030 - Complaints and citations for violations.

In the discharge of their official duties, the license official and authorized deputies shall have the power to
issue citations for the violation of any of the provisions of the license ordinances. The license official shall further
have the duty of cooperating with the metro attorney to cause complaints to be filed against all persons violating any
of the provisions of the license ordinances.

Chapter 1.05 - LICENSE CERTIFICATES AND REGULATIONS

Sections:

1.05.010 - Business rules and regulations.

Rules and regulations covering the health, safety, morals, peace, good order, comfort and convenience of the
general public with respect to any business covered under this title shall be adopted by the metro council, and copies
of such rules and regulations shall be made available to and displayed by the licensee affected thereby in a
conspicuous place upon the licensed premises.

1.05.020 - Businesses that require additional regulation.

The nature and operations of some business types may require additional regulation. Licensees may be notified
by the license official of the need for applications and additional fees with other agencies, including but not limited
to the Unified Fire Authority, local law enforcement agencies, the Salt Lake County Health Department, Planning
and Development Services, the Department of Agriculture, and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives.

1.05.030 - Posting license on premises required.

| It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the metro to keep the license posted in a
| prominent place on the premises used for such business at all times.

1.05.040 - License certificate to be shown to officials.

It shall be the duty of each and every person to whom a certificate of license has been issued to show the same
at any proper time when requested to do so by the license official, local fire agency official, Salt Lake County
Health Department, or local law enforcement officer.

1.05.050 - Unlawful uses of certificates.

A. It is unlawful to:

1. Counterfeit a license certificate;

2. Deface, mutilate, remove or attempt to remove a license certificate while it is required to be posted in a

licensed premises;

3. Use or permit to be used a license certificate at any place other than that designated on the license

certificate; or

4. For any licensee to place or permit the license certificate to be placed or be in any place of business after

it has been placed in or upon any place of business prohibited or declared to be unlawful by this title or
any other ordinance or law.

Chapter 1.06 - TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSES

Sections:

1.06.010 - License transfer limitations.

A. No license granted or issued under the provisions of the ordinances of the metro shall:

1. Be assignable or transferable,

2, Authorize any person other than the person therein mentioned or named to do business, or

3. Authorize any other business than is therein mentioned or named to be done or transacted.

Chapter 1.07 - LICENSE REVOCATION

Sections:

1.07.010 - Enforcement powers.

A. The license official may, on the official's own initiative, or in response to complaints referred from the general
public, state agencies, local law enforcement, or local government agencies, investigate and gather evidence of
violations of the licensing provisions of this title.

B. The license official, shall be responsible for the enforcement of this title.

1.07.020 - Grounds for license suspension or revocation.

In addition to any fine imposed, every license or permit issued by the license official or metro council may be
revoked or suspended by the license official if it is determined that the licensee or permittee:

A. Has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude;

B. Has obtained, or aided another to obtain, a license by fraud or deceit;

C. Has violated the laws of the United States Government, state of Utah, the ordinances of the metro, or the
tules and regulations of any agency of another governmental entity, governing the operation of the
business holding a license or permit;

D. Has failed to pay personal property taxes, Utah state sales taxes, or other required fees;

E. Has refused to permit authorized officers or employees to make an inspection or to take a sample of a
commodity, or has interfered with such officer or employee while making such inspection;

F. Has filed or encouraged another to file false information with the license office, the local law
enforcement agency or any other agency as part of the license application; or

G. Has contracted with two or more independent contractors whose business licenses were subsequently
revoked in final unappealable decisions during a twelve-month period for engaging in unlawful conduct
under the Utah Massage Therapy Practice Act or Prostitution under the Utah Criminal Code on the
licensee or permittee’s leased or owned premises.

1.07.030 - License suspension or revocation—Procedure.

Any suspension or revocation of a license shall be issued by the license official via written notice to the

licensee, which shall outline the grounds for suspension or revocation. Suspension or revocation shall be

stayed upon the filing of an appeal.
1.07.040 - Appeals.

A. The licensee may appeal to the metro council within fourteen calendar days any decision of the license official
to suspend or revoke a license.

B. Upon receiving the appeal, the metro council shall hold a license hearing in accordance with the provisions of
Section 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.07.050 - Effect of revocation.

If a license is denied, revoked, or suspended without an appeal or after an appeal, it shall thereafter be unlawful
for any person to engage in or use, or permit to be used any property for any business with respect to which the
license has been suspended, revoked or denied.

1.07.060 - Waiting period for new license.

A. No person denied a license under the provisions of Chapter 1.02, or whose license has been suspended or
revoked without or after appeal under the provisions of this chapter, and no person associated or connected

with such person in the conduct of such business, shall be granted a license for the same purpose for a period

of six months after the denial, suspension or revocation has occurred.

B. The metro council may, for good cause, waive the prohibition against persons formerly associated or connected
with an individual who has had a license revoked.

Chapter 1.08 - GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSE FEES

Sections:

1.08.010 - Definitions.

For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings herein prescribed:

"Business" means all activities within the metro carried on for the purpose of gain or economic profit, and for
the purposes of this chapter shall include nonprofit corporations, except that the acts of employees rendering service
to employers shall not be included in the term “business” unless otherwise specifically prescribed.

"Employee" means the operator, owner or manager of a place of business and any persons employed by such
person in the operation of that place of business, in any capacity, and also any salesman, agent or independent
contractor engaged in the operation of that place of business, in any capacity.

"Engaging in business" means, but is not limited to, the sale of tangible personal property at retail or
wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or property, and the rendering of personal services for others for a
consideration by persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft, business, occupation, or other calling, except the
rendering of personal services by an employee to an employer under any contract of personal employment.

"Gross sales" means and includes the amount of any manufacturer's or importer's excise tax included in the
price of the property sold, even though the manufacturer or importer is also the wholesaler or retailer thereof, and
whether or not the amount of such tax is stated as a separate charge.

Gross sales shal] not include:

A. The amount of any federal tax, except excise taxes imposed upon or with respect to retail or wholesale
sales, whether imposed upon the retailer, wholesaler, jobber or the consumer, and regardless of whether
the amount of federal tax is stated to customers as a separate charge; and

B. The amount of net Utah state sales tax.

"Number of employees” means the average number of employees engaged at the place of business each regular
working day during the preceding calendar year.

"Person" means any individual, receiver, assigner, trustee in bankruptcy, trust, estate, firm, copartnership, joint
venture, club, company, joint stock company, business trust, corporation, association, society or other group of
individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise.

"Place of business" means any location maintained or operated by a licensee within the metro, from which
business activity is conducted or transacted.

1.08.020 - License—Required—Period of Validity—Expiration.

A. It is unlawful for any person to engage in business within the metro without first procuring a general business
license required by this chapter. Unless indicated otherwise, all general business licenses are valid for one year
from the date issued and shall expire annually on the last day of the month in which the license was originally
issued.

B. In addition to the requirements above, decisions regarding the grant or denial of a general business license shall
be made in accordance with the procedures established in Sections 1.02.010 through 1.02.140 of this title.

C. A general business license is subject to suspension or revocation for any violation of this chapter, or for any of
the reasons contained in Section 1.07.020 of this title. Decisions to revoke or suspend a general business
license shall be made in accordance with the procedures outlined in Sections 1.07.010 through 1.07.030 of this
title.

D. Appeals of any decision to deny, suspend or revoke a general business license shall be heard and decided in
accordance with the procedures established in Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.08.030 - Exemptions.

A. No business license fee shall be imposed under this chapter upon any business which:

1. Is exempt from both property taxes and privilege taxes, or

2. Upon a person engaged in business that is specifically exempt from licensure by political subdivisions

under the laws of the state, or

3. Upon any person doing business within the metro who has paid a similar license tax or fee to some other

governmental unit within the state, which governmental unit exempts from its license tax or fee, by
written interlocal cooperation agreement, businesses domiciled in the metro and doing business in such
unit.

1.08.040 - License—Fee.

An annual license fee is levied upon the business of every person engaged in a business within the metro. A fee
per place of business, plus an additional fee for each employee, exceeding one, as defined in Section 1.08.010 of this
chapter shall be established in accordance with Section 3.42.040 of these ordinances. These fees shall be set out in
the consolidated fee schedule, which shall be approved by the metro council and shall be on file with the licensing
official.

1.08.045 - License—Change in Place of Business—Fee.

A. Any time a place of business changes, the business license for the prior place of business expires and a new
application for a business license is required for the new place of business. A change in place of business shall
include any change of address including a change of suite numbers within the same building. The new
application shall be subject to the requirements of Chapter 1.02 of this title.

B. The annual license fees described in Section 1.08.040, including both the per place of business and the per
employee fees, shall be levied for the new place of business for the twelve months following issuance of the
new business license. However, these fees for the new place of business shall be reduced to account for months
where the licensee has not received the full benefit of the license fees for the prior place of business, as
determined by the number of complete months for which the prior fees were paid but not used, and calculated
on a pro rata basis.

1.08.050 - License—Branch establishments.

A business with multiple branch establishments or locations within the metro must obtain a separate license for
each branch or location within the metro as if such branch or location were a separate business, and each license
shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner
designated in such license; provided, that warehouses and distributing places used in connection with or incident to a
business licensed under this title shall not be deemed to be separate places of business or branch establishments.
1.08.060 - Chapter provisions not exclusive.

The general business license required under this chapter is in addition to all other licenses and permits required
by other ordinance provisions. No person shall engage in business without first procuring the necessary licenses and
permits that are required by other provisions of the ordinances, in addition to the license required by this chapter.
1.08.070 - Business recordkeeping requirements.

Every person liable for the payment of any license fee imposed by this chapter shall keep books and records for
a period of three years as will accurately reflect the number of employees from which can be determined the amount
of any license fee for which the business may be liable under the provisions of this chapter.

1.08.080 - Fee payments—Constructive Notice of Time Periods—Delinquency penalties.

A. Al license fees provided for in this chapter shall be paid in advance to the license office prior to license
approval. Annual renewal fees shall be paid prior to the last day of the month in which the license was
originally issued, unless provided otherwise in this title.

B. All businesses, owners, licensees, or applicants are obligated to be aware of and are deemed to have
constructive notice of all time periods and deadlines for business license renewal and the effect of non-

compliance with those time periods and deadlines, as set forth in this title, relating to the application, issuance,
renewal, expiration, appeal or other action regarding business licenses, alcohol licenses, or any other licensing
matters set forth in this title. Nothing in this title shall be construed as requiring the license office to take any
affirmative action to notify businesses, owners, licensees, applicants of any time periods or deadlines or the
effect of non-compliance with those time periods or deadlines, as set forth in this title, relating to the
application, issuance, renewal, expiration, appeal, or other action relating to business licenses, alcohol licenses,
or any other licensing matters as set forth in this title.

C. In the event renewal fees are not received at the license office within thirty days of the date the fees are due,
the licensee may be required to reapply for a business license and shall pay a penalty of twenty-five percent of
the fees due as part of the reissuance fee. In the event the renewal fees are not received at the license office
within sixty days of the date that the fees are due, the licensee may be required to reapply for a business license
and shall pay a penalty of one hundred percent of the fee due as part of the reissuance fee.

D. When any person, firm or corporation engages in any occupation covered by the provisions of this title, or adds
anything to an existing business which requires an additional fee, without first paying the required license fee,
a penalty of one hundred percent of the amount of such license fee shall be added to the original amount
thereof.

1. The imposition of penalties for the late payment of business license fees, as established in this section,
may be waived by the metro council upon the licensee's showing of good cause. "Good cause" must
constitute exceptional circumstances of a material and substantial nature which are beyond the licensee's
control, and may be demonstrated by the following:

a. Any error by the license official affecting the amount or imposition of the license fee;

b. Medical circumstances or other incapacity of the licensee;

c. A disaster or Act of God precluding timely payment; or

d. A good faith and reasonable dispute, not yet resolved, between the licensee and the license official
regarding the need for a license or the imposition or amount of a license fee.

2. In determining whether good cause exists, the metro council may assign a person with appropriate
training or experience to serve as a hearing officer to review applications and appeals regarding late
business license fee waivers and make a recommendation regarding a waiver to the metro council.

1.08.090 - Civil actions to recover fees.

A. Where this title requires a license to be obtained from the license official, the fee being fixed by ordinance, and
where such fee is not paid at the time or in the manner provided in this chapter, a civil action may be brought
in the name of the metro against the person failing to pay such license fee, in any court of this state having
Jurisdiction of such action, to recover the same and any penalties that may attach, and/or to enjoin further
operation by the licensee.

B. Where several amounts for licenses as fixed by any metro ordinance shall remain due and unpaid by any
person, the amounts may be joined as separate causes of action in the same complaint in a civil action.

C. The metro’s attorney shall prepare, bring and prosecute the civil actions contemplated by this chapter upon the
written request of the metro council.

1.08.100 - License application—Public records—Exceptions.

A. License applications shall be public records and information contained therein shall be public except for
specific items of data that the license official designates or classifies as private, controlled or protected data
consistent with the provisions of the Government Records Access and Management Act of the Utah Code.

B. Income tax returns and sales tax returns filed with a license application made to the license official , that are or
may be required by this title, shall not be made public, nor shall they be subject to the inspection of any person
except the county license official or the official's authorized agent, or to those persons authorized to do so by
order of the metro council.

C. It is unlawful for any person to make public or to inform any other person of the contents of any information
contained therein, or permit the inspection of any income tax return or state sales tax return, except as
authorized in this section.

1.08.110 - Filing false return prohibited.

Knowingly filing of a false license application, accompanying tax return, or any other information required to
be submitted to the license official in conjunction with a license application, is unlawful.

Chapter 1.09 - TEMPORARY AND SEASONAL LICENSES

Sections:

1.09.010 - License—Required.

A. It is unlawful for any person to conduct a sale for or to operate a temporary or seasonal business without first
making application for and obtaining a license from the license official pursuant to the provisions of this
chapter or other applicable provisions of this title.

B. In addition to the requirements above, decisions regarding the grant or denial of a temporary or seasonal
license shall be made in accordance with the procedures established in Sections 1.02.010 through 1.02.140 of
this title.

C. A temporary or seasonal license is subject to suspension or revocation for any violation of this chapter, or for
any of the reasons contained in Section 1.07.020 of this title. Decisions to revoke or suspend a temporary or
seasonal license shall be made in accordance with the procedures outlined in Sections 1.07.010 through
1.07.030 of this title.

D. Appeals of any decision to deny, suspend or revoke a temporary or seasonal license shall be heard and decided
in accordance with the procedures established in Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.09.020 - Seasonal License—Period of validity—Number issued per year.

A seasonal license will enable a seller to conduct a sale for up to one hundred eighty consecutive calendar
days. Only one seasonal license will be issued per year to any seller or anyone associated with seller. The seasonal

| license will specify the location at which the sale may be conducted, and no sales by the licensee may be conducted
at a location other than that specified in the seasonal license.

1.09.030 - Temporary License—Period of validity—Number issued per year.

A temporary license will enable a seller to conduct a sale for up to ten consecutive calendar days. The
temporary license will specify the location at which the sale may be conducted, and no sales by the licensee may be
conducted at a location other than that specified in the temporary license.

1.09.040 - Inspection of merchandise.

The local law enforcement agency may inspect all merchandise to be sold under a temporary or seasonal
license during all normal business hours.

1.09.050 - Compliance with laws.

Seasonal and temporary license holders will comply with all applicable laws and ordinances of the metro and
the state governing the operation of their business.

Chapter 1.10 - ALCOHOL REGISTRATION CARDS

Sections:

1.10.010 - Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

A. "Employed" means performing any type of work or assistance for or on behalf of any establishment
covered by this chapter, at any establishment covered by this chapter, during hours such establishment is
open to its members or to the public, whether or not pecuniary compensation is provided or offered
therefor.

B. "Employee" means any person who is employed, as defined in this section, by any establishment covered
by this chapter, whether the person is employed on a contractual basis, by fixed salary, or by any other
means.

C. "Employer" means any establishment, or the principals thereof, covered by this chapter.

1.10.020 - Persons and establishments which require registration cards.

The persons and establishments covered by this chapter and required to obtain a registration card shall be as

follows:

A. All employees of on-premises beer tavern and resort license establishments;

B. _Beer-only restaurants which provide live entertainment on the premises;

C. Equity, fraternal, dining, and social clubs which sell, serve and dispense alcoholic beverages, including
those employed as bartenders, waiters, waitresses, and managers; and

D. Those engaged in security, or the checking of identification to ensure that no person, including
performers, enters the establishment who is not twenty-one years of age.

1.10.030 - Procedure for obtaining card.

A. Anemployee applying for an alcohol registration card must apply at the local law enforcement agency's office,
provide proof of employment, and be photographed.

B. All applicants shall be required to furnish satisfactory proof of age via a valid form of identification as
determined by the local law enforcement agency.

C. All applicants shall be required to furnish a current copy of a criminal background check conducted by the
Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification (BCI).

D. The applicant shall pay to local law enforcement such fees as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule
approved by the metro council and on file with the license official.

1.10.040 - Card numbers to be registered by employer.

All registration card numbers obtained under the provisions of this chapter are to be registered by the employer

personnel or payroll section, and kept as a part of the record of the employee.

1.10.050 - Examination of employees’ cards.

A. The person or persons designated by each establishment as the agent(s) responsible for hiring and/or checking
employees under the provisions of this chapter shall examine each employee's or prospective employee's
registration card to determine the validity of the card for use in the particular establishment concerned.

B. If the prospective employee's card is found to be invalid as described above, the employee will be issued a new
signed application form, which must be completed and presented along with the registration card to the local
law enforcement agency's office for validation prior to commencing employment.

1.10.060 - Period of validity.

Unless revoked or suspended, each registration card issued pursuant to this chapter shall remain valid for a

period of one year from the date of original issuance.

1.10.070 - Possession of card required—Cards not transferable.

A. All persons employed by an establishment governed by this chapter must have in their possession a valid
registration card during times of employment with the establishment.

B. Registration cards are not transferable.

1.10.080 - Denial conditions—Appeals.

A. The local law enforcement agency may deny, on behalf of the metro, a registration card if the applicant:

1. Has been convicted of a felony, or any crime involving moral turpitude as defined by Utah
Administrative Rule R708-2-3;

2. Has obtained a registration card by fraud or deceit;

3. Has failed to pay required fees;

4. Has violated the laws of the state or the ordinances of the metro regulating the sale or distribution of
alcoholic beverages, or a controlled substance as defined in Section 58-37-1, et seq., Utah Code
Annotated (1953), as amended;

5. Has an outstanding warrant for his or her arrest.

B. Any appeal of the denial of a registration card subject to the provisions of this chapter shall be heard and
decided in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.10.090 - Suspension and revocation conditions and procedures.

A. In accordance with Chapter 1.07, the license official may revoke or suspend registration cards if the holder has
committed any of the offenses outlined in Section 1.10.080(A), or has utilized a registration card for the
purpose of obtaining credit, or as identification for cashing checks.

B. Any appeal of the suspension or revocation of a registration card subject to the provisions of this chapter shall
be heard and decided in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.10.100 - Violation—Penalty.

Violation of this chapter or any part thereof shall be punishable as a Class B misdemeanor.

Chapter 1.11 - LICENSES FOR LARGE-SCALE EVENTS OF STATE, NATIONAL OR

INTERNATIONAL IMPORTANCE/RECOGNITION

Sections:

1.11.010 - Definition and application of chapter.

A. This chapter shall apply only to licenses required for use during, or in connection with, large-scale events of
state, national or international importance or recognition.

B. A large-scale event of state, national or international importance or recognition is a temporary event with
anticipated attendance in excess of one thousand people.

C. Large-scale event licenses shall not be subject to the provisions of Section 1.08.090(A).

1.11.020 - License—Period of validity—Number issued.

A. A large-scale event license will permit a vendor holding the license to conduct business operations for which
the license is issued for a period beginning thirty calendar days before the officially established date for the
opening of the large-scale event and ending thirty calendar days following the officially established closing
date of the large-scale event.

B. Any large-scale event license shall not be valid for more than one hundred and eighty consecutive calendar
days.

C. There shall be no limit to the number of large-scale event licenses issued to any one person; provided however,
that a separate license shall be required for each large-scale event.

D. A license duly issued shall authorize business activity at any and all additional locations specified therein,
provided that the holder has complied with all requirements of this title.

1.11.030 - Location of business activity.

A. The business activity conducted by each person awarded a license under this chapter shall be only that business
for which the license is issued, and may be conducted only in such place or places specified in the license.

B. Applicants may specify the location or locations desired. However, the licensing official shall have the final
determination as to the location or locations of the permitted business activity, taking into consideration such
factors as the zoning designation, traffic flow, pedestrian flow, parking, audio/visual equipment, tents,
temporary structures, hours of operation, etc.

1.11.040 - Applications—Compliance with laws—Appeals.

A. Those applying for a large-scale event business license shall comply with the provisions of Sections 1.02.010
through 1.02.140 of this title.

B. In addition, license holders shall comply with all other applicable laws and ordinances of the metro, the state of
Utah, and the United States of America governing the operation of their business.

C. Failure to comply with this section may result in the immediate revocation of the large-scale event business
license, in addition to any penalties imposed by the provisions of the ordinance or law violated.

D. The final determination whether to immediately revoke a large-scale event business license under the authority
of this section shall in any event, be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 1.07.020 through
1.07.030 of this title.

E. Any appeal of a decision to deny, revoke or suspend a large scale event business license shall be heard and
decided in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

Chapter 1.13 - CHECK CASHERS PROHIBITIONS

Sections:

1.13.010 - Definitions.

"Check casher" or "check cashing business" means an entity engaged in the business of check cashing.

"Check cashing" means cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred deposit loan (as defined by
the Check Cashing Regulation Act of the Utah Code) but does not restrict the activities of depository institutions or
persons who cash a check in a transaction that is incidental to the retail sale of goods or services for consideration
that does not exceed the greater of one percent of the amount of the check or one dollar.

"Title loan" means a loan secured by the title to a motor vehicle, mobile home, or motor boat, as defined by
state statute. "Title loan" does not include a purchase money loan or loan made in connection with the sale of a
motor vehicle, mobile home, or motor boat.

1.13.020 - Check casher regulation.

A. The Copperton Metro Council finds that the regulation of check cashers is:

1. A serious matter which affects the prosperity and welfare of the residents of the metro;

2. Appropriately the responsibility of the governments of the United States and of the state of Utah; and

3. Inadequately performed at the present time by the federal and state governments so as to protect the

welfare of the citizens of the metro.

1.13.030 - Limitations.

A. The total number of check cashers in the metro shall not exceed one check casher per ten thousand population
of the metro.

B. Check cashers must provide to patrons a complete written description of the services provided by the check
casher, which description is approved by the Utah State Department of Financial Institutions.

C. A business engaged in offering title loans is not subject to the provisions of this section unless it engages in a
check casher business at the same location.

Chapter 1.14 - EXCAVATION OPERATIONS

Sections:

1.14.010 - Excavation defined.

For the purpose of this chapter, "excavation" refers to any type of mining operation where material is removed
from the earth, including but not limited to the removal of clay, soil, granite, flagstone, slate, shale, limestone,
sandstone, sand or gravel by excavating, stripping, leveling or any other process.

1.14.020 - Excavation district established.

The following excavation district is established in the Copperton Metro Township:

Beginning at the point of intersection of the north line of Salt Lake County and the west line of Section 6, TIN,
R2E, SLB&M; which point lies also upon the west line of Range 2 East, SLB&M, thence southward along the west
line of said Range 2 East, to the south line of Salt Lake County; thence westerly along the south line of Salt Lake
County to the point of intersection with the west line of Section 22, T4S, R2W; thence northward along the west line
produced of said Section 22 to the southeast corner of Section 9, T3S, R2W; thence west along the south line
produced of said Section 9 to the southwest comer of Section 8, T3S, R2W; thence north along the west line
produced of last said section to the west quarter corner of Section 20, TI S, R2W; thence east from said west quarter
corner along the quarter section line produced of said Section 20 to the west quarter corner of Section 23, T1S,
R2W; thence north along the west line of said Section 23 to the north line of same section; thence east along the
north line produced of same said section to the point of intersection with the west limits of Salt Lake City; thence
northerly following along the west limits of Salt Lake City to the north line of Salt Lake County; thence along the
north line of Salt Lake County to the point of beginning; but excluding all lands lying inside the incorporated
communities within the area above described. This area is described throughout in relation to the Salt Lake Base and
Meridian.

1.14.030 - Operations—Distance from residential zones.

A. Subject to modifications outlined in Section 1.14.040 of this chapter, no part of an excavation operation,
including but not limited to access roads, parking areas, office buildings, or crushing, screening, washing,
mixing or other types of processing operations, shall be permitted closer than two hundred feet to a residential
zone boundary or a subdivision, or within fifty feet of a public highway right-of-way, except for accessory
access roads.

B. For the purpose of this chapter, the residential zone S-1-G shall be considered a nonresidential zone.

1.14.040 - Operation—Reduction in distance permitted when.

Relating to existing operations, the planning commission shall, consistent with the intent of this chapter and
where the character of the terrain, of ownership of land, of surrounding development, or other special conditions
would justify such modification, permit a reduction in the required yard as provided in Section 1.14.030 of this
chapter so as not to impose unreasonable requirements. However, in no case shall the required distances for any
excavation or accessory structure be less than fifty feet from a residential zone.

1.14.050 - Exemptions—Commercial disposal of materials.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any operation that is incident to the legitimate use of the
premises. However, when such operation involves the commercial disposal of the material removed, such operation
shall be limited to a maximum period of six months.

1.14.060 - Exemptions—Topographical or other conditions.

In cases where unusual topographical or other exceptional conditions exist, variations and exemptions from
this chapter may be made by the planning commission.

1.14.070 - Exemptions—Removal of less than one thousand cubic yards.

Excavation over a six-month period of less than one thousand cubic yards from a single parcel of land, as
recorded in the office of the county recorder, is not subject to the requirements of this chapter.

1.14.080 - Exemptions—Removal of sod.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the removal of sod.

1.14.090 - Exemptions—Removal of topsoil.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the removal of topsoil, providing the operation is not closer
than ten feet to any property line or to a depth in excess of eighteen inches, or such as to adversely affect the
drainage of the area.

1.14.100 - Hours of operation—Designated.

Excavation operations shall not begin before seven a.m. and shall not continue after the hours of six p.m., and
no operation shall take place on Sunday or legal holidays. During periods of national or unusual emergency, time
and hours of operation may be altered at the discretion of the metro council.

1.14.110 - Hours of operation—Modifications.

The planning commission may, consistent with the intent of this chapter, modify the provisions relative to
permitted hours of operation in any excavation district after notice to interested parties and the holding of a hearing
on the matter.

1.14.120 - Restrictions, limitations and controls generally.

All excavation operations conducted or carried on in established excavation districts are subject to the
limitations, restrictions and controls set out in Sections 1.14.010 through 1.14.140.

A. Dust, Noise, Vibration, Smoke, Lights and Odor. All equipment and machinery used on the site of an
excavation operation shall be constructed, maintained and operated in such a manner as to reduce or keep
dust, noise, vibration, smoke, welding lights, and odor to a minimum. Access and haulage roads on the
site shall be maintained in a dust-free condition by surfacing or other treatment.

B. Fencing or Barriers. Fencing or other suitable barriers shall be created and maintained on the excavation
site where such fencing is practicable and necessary because of dangerous conditions created by the
excavation.

C. Related Manufacturing Operations. The manufacture of concrete building blocks or other similar blocks,
the production or manufacture of lime products, the production of ready-mixed concrete, the production
of asphalt mixes, and any similar production or manufacturing processes that might be related to the
excavation operation shall not be permitted except as otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance.

D. Washing. The washing of sand and gravel shall be done so as to prevent the discharge of wastewater
directly into adjacent natural watercourses, or onto any public or private roads or any private property
without the consent of the owner.

1.14.130 - Removal of temporary structures and materials.

Within one year after the cessation of the operation, all temporary structures (except fences), equipment, rock
piles, rubble heaps or other debris shall be removed or backfilled into the excavation so as to leave the premises in a
neat and orderly condition.

1.14.140 - Excavation and backfilling.

A. Where backfilling is required, the excavation shall be graded or backfilled with nontoxic, nonflammable,
noncombustible solids. The materials used or the method of fill shall not be such as to create a health hazard,
nor shall they be objectionable because of odor or unsightliness.

B. Stagnant water shall not be allowed to collect and remain on the graded or backfilled area.

C. The peaks and depressions of the excavation area shall be reduced to a surface which will result in level or
gently sloping topography in substantial conformity to the land area immediately surrounding, and which will
minimize erosion due to rainfall.

D. In any rehabilitation procedure that takes place in sand and gravel pits or on other sites where material is of
loose or friable nature, no slope shall be left that exceeds thirty degrees or the normal angle of repose of the
material involved, whichever is less.

1.14.150 - Rehabilitation requirements.

A. In order to ensure that the area of excavation operation shall be rehabilitated, the owner or operator shall, prior
to the commencement of excavation, submit to the planning and development services director four copies of a
plan for such rehabilitation in the form of the following:

1. A description of all phases of the contemplated operation and the specific mention of the type of
machinery and equipment that will or might be necessary to the performance of the operation. When the
excavation operation shall include the washing of sand and gravel, the estimated daily quantity of water
required, its source and disposition, shall be made a part of the description;

2. A legal description of the proposed site, with a map showing its location with indications of private
access roads, existing or proposed, and of public highways adjacent to the site which will be affected by
the operation;

3. A topographic map of the area at a minimum contour interval of five feet, extending beyond the site to
the nearest public street or highway or to a minimum distance of three hundred feet on all sides;

4. A physical rehabilitation plan showing the proposed contours after rehabilitation and other special
features of rehabilitation, and the method by which such rehabilitation is to be accomplished.

B. When the excavation site is greater than ten acres, such plans shall, in addition to the foregoing, show each ten-
acre section or portion thereof exceeding the first ten-acre section.

1. Upon completion of excavation of the first ten-acre section, the owner or operator shall commence
rehabilitation of the first ten-acre section.

2. Rehabilitation of the first ten-acre section must be completed before excavation may begin on the third
ten-acre section or portion thereof

3. Upon completion of excavation of any subsequent ten-acre section, rehabilitation of such section shall be
commenced and completed in the same manner and sequence as rehabilitation of the first ten-acre
section; that is, rehabilitation of the second ten-acre section shall be commenced upon completion of
excavation of such section and shall be completed before excavation may begin on the fourth ten-acre
section, and so forth.

C. At any stage during the rehabilitation, the plan may be modified by the submission and subsequent approval of
an amended rehabilitation plan such as that required in the original application.

D. The rehabilitation plan and all data and information pertaining thereto shall be referred to the planning
commission by the planning and development services director within fifteen calendar days after its receipt for
report and recommendation.

1. If approved, the planning commission shall, after consideration of the recommendations of the planning
and development services division and within thirty days, express its written approval, with whatever
conditions are attached, by returning one copy of the rehabilitation plan signed by the planning and
development services director to the owner or operator.

2. If the plan is disapproved, the planning commission shall in the same manner and within five calendar
days, indicate its disapproval in writing, and the reasons therefor.

1.14.160 - Enforeement—Planning and development services director authority.

The planning and development services director (hereinafter "the director") is hereby designated as the officer
charged with the enforcement of this chapter and may delegate this authority to any authorized county employee.
1.14.170 - Inspection and stop work orders.

A. It shall be the duty of the director to inspect all excavations, as often as necessary.

B. Where it is determined by the director that any excavation project is not proceeding in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter, the director may order the work on the project stopped by notice served in writing
on any persons engaged in working on the project, and all persons shall forthwith stop such work until the
project is brought into compliance and the director authorizes the project to proceed.

C. In addition, the metro may pursue appropriate legal action in the courts.

D. Failure to implement administrative or legal action shall not legalize any violation of this chapter.

1.14.180 - Violation—Penalty—Violation of stop work orders.

A. Violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and punished as set forth in Chapter
1.12 of this code.

B. Any person violating the terms of a stop work order issued pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a separate
offense for each and every day during which such violation is committed, continued or permitted by such
person.

Chapter 1.15 - ALARM BUSINESSES

Sections:

1.15.010 - Purpose and scope.

The purpose of this chapter is to:

A. Protect the emergency services of the metro from the occurrence of false alarms which cause local law

enforcement significant unwarranted expense; and

B. Preserve the public interest in the expenditure of public resources while maintaining a sufficient level of

law enforcement services.
1.15.020 - Definitions.

As used in this chapter:

"Alarm business" means any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity in the business of selling,
leasing, maintaining, monitoring, repairing, planning or assisting in the installation of any alarm system in the metro.

"Alarm site" means each individual home in the case of a single-family residence or each unit of a home,
duplex or apartment if the structure is a multifamily dwelling, or each business or businesses within a building.

"Alarm system" means any mechanism, equipment, or device which is designed to detect an unauthorized
entry into any building or onto any property, or to direct attention to a robbery, burglary, or other emergency in
progress, and to signal the local law enforcement agency of the above occurrences either by a local or audible alarm
or by a silent or remote alarm. "Alarm system" includes a “duress alarm" and an "intrusion alarm" as defined below.

"Alarm system" does not include:

1. Devices which do not register alarms that are audible, visible, or perceptible outside the protected

premises; and

2. Devices which are not installed, operated or used for the purpose of reporting an emergency to the local

law enforcement agency.

"Alarm user" means the person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization thereof of

| any kind in control of a building, structure or facility where an alarm system is maintained, including the
homeowner, for alarm systems in single-family residences, and the tenant, for alarm systems in an apartment
building.

"Apartment building" means any building containing two or more residential rental units.

"Automatic dialing device" means a device which is interconnected to a telephone line and is programmed to
select a predetermined telephone number and transmit by voice message or code signal any emergency message
indicating a need for emergency response.

"Duress alarm" means an alarm system signaling a robbery or other physical endangerment.

"Enhanced call verification” means that an alarm business will make a second call to a responsible party to
verify a business intrusion alarm drop prior to requesting a response from the local law enforcement agency.

"False alarm" means an alarm signal eliciting a response by peace officers when a situation requiring a

g g p y Pp quiring
response by them in fact does not exist. This does not include an alarm signal caused by extraordinary violent
conditions of nature not reasonably subject to control.

"Holdup alarm" means a silent alarm generated by the manual activation of a device intended to signal a
robbery in progress.

"Intrusion alarm" means an alarm system signaling an entry or attempted entry into an area protected by the
system.

"One-plus duress alarm" means the manual activation of a silent alarm signal by entering at a keypad a code
that adds one to the last digit of the normal arm/disarm code.

"Panic alarm" means an audible alarm signal generated by the manual activation of a device intended to signal
a life threatening or emergency situation.

"Responsible party" means any of the three persons designated by the residential permit holder to respond in
place of the permit holder if an alarm is generated at the permit holder's alarm site, or, in the case of a business, the
name of the owner or designated person(s) to respond to the business in the event an alarm is generated at the permit
holder's alarm site.

1.15.030 - Alarm business permit.

A. It is unlawful for any alarm business to install an alarm system in or on any building or other property within
the metro without an alarm business permit.

B. No alarm business permit will be issued unless the applicant has a current state license under U.C.A. § 58-55-
301, as amended and is licensed by the Utah State Division of Professional Licensing.

1.15.040 - Alarm user permits.

A. Every alarm user shall have on their premises or in their possession an alarm user permit which shall be issued
at no charge upon filing a completed alarm permit application as provided by Section 1.15.050 of this chapter.
The permit application shall be submitted prior to the operation of the alarm system or prior to an existing
system being taken over by a different alarm user or business.

B. A separate permit shall be required for each alarm site.

C. An alarm user permit shall continue in effect until there is a change in ownership of the alarm system, at which
time the permit shall expire. Alarm permits are not transferable.

D. An alarm business shall notify local law enforcement of any alarm user who has cancelled or otherwise
terminated their alarm services with the business.

E. Homeowners are required to possess an alarm user permit for alarm systems installed in single-family
residences.

1.15.050 - Alarm information.

A. An alarm user permit application shall include the information required in this section and shall be completed
by the alarm user and submitted prior to operation of the system.

B. The alarm user permit application shall set forth the full name, address and telephone number of both the alarm
user on whose premises the system will be installed, operated, connected, monitored or maintained, and the
name of the contact person of the alarm business installing, monitoring, maintaining or servicing the system.

C. The alarm user permit shall contain such additional information as necessary to properly identify and locate the
alarm user, the alarm business, and the responsible parties.

D. To the extent permitted under the Utah Government Records Access and Management Act, as amended, all
alarm user permit applications and permit information relating to specific alarm sites shall be designated as
private records or protected records and not disclosed except as provided by Utah law.

1.15.060 - Records of local law enforcement agency calls.

Alarm businesses which request response from the local law enforcement agency to alarm signals shall

‘ maintain a record of all local law enforcement agency calls, stating the time, date and location of the alarm and the
name, address and phone number of the alarm user. Alarm businesses shall maintain these records for one year. The
records shall indicate the cause of the alarm, if known. This record shall be kept current and shall be made available
to the local law enforcement agency at any time during normal business hours.

1.15.070 - User instructions.

Every alarm business shall furnish the alarm user with written instructions and training that provide
information to enable the alarm user to operate the alarm system properly and avoid false alarms. Written operating
instructions and the phone number of the alarm business monitoring station shall be maintained at each alarm site.
The alarm business shall notify the alarm user of the alarm permit requirements and of the provisions of this alarm
chapter.

1.15.080 - Apartment buildings.

A. A tenant in an apartment building shall obtain an alarm permit before operating or causing the operation of an
alarm system in the tenant's rental unit and must have three responsible parties listed on the permit application
who can respond to the tenant's rental unit if the tenant is not available to respond.

B. A tenant in an apartment building who has contracted with an alarm business to monitor an alarm system at the
tenant's alarm site shall be responsible for any false alarms or fines arising from the alarm system at such alarm
site.

1.15.090 - Alarm system requirements and prohibitions.

A. All audible or visual alarm systems shall be equipped with an automatic cutoff device which will terminate the
alarm signal within thirty minutes.

B. No alarm business shall install or program alarm systems to be capable of sending one plus duress alarms after
the effective date of this chapter.

C. It is the responsibility of the alarm business to prevent false alarms during installation, system repairs, or
system service. Proper notification shall be made to the local law enforcement agency by the alarm business
and alarm user that the system is in a test mode to avoid dispatching law enforcement.

D. It is unlawful for any person to install or use an alarm system or device that emits or produces real or simulated
smoke, fog, vapor or any like substance that obscures vision.

E. No person shall activate any intrusion or duress alarm knowing the same to be false.

F. An alarm business shall not request the local law enforcement agency to respond to an alarm when monitoring
equipment indicates an alarm system malfunction.

G. Alarm businesses shall make a second attempt to verify a business intrusion alarm through enhanced call
verification prior to contacting the local law enforcement agency for a response.

H. Alarm businesses shall verify a residential alarm user or responsible party is responding to an intrusion alarm
prior to contacting the local law enforcement agency for a response.

1.15.100 — Metro Township liability limitations.

A. The metro shall not be liable for any defects in the operation of any alarm systems, for any alleged failure or
neglect to respond appropriately upon the receipt of an alarm nor for the failure or neglect of any person or
business registered or issued a permit pursuant to this section in connection with the installation, operation or
maintenance of the equipment necessary to or incident to the operation of such system.

B. In the event it is necessary to order an alarm system disconnected based on repeated and uncontrolled false
alarms, the metro shall inure no liability for such action.

1.15.110 - False alarms and fines.

A. A fine may be assessed against the owner of a business or residence for the activation of an intrusion, duress,
panic, or holdup alarm which is determined to be false. The fines shall be assessed as follows:

1. No fine shall be charged for the first or second incident of a false alarm within a calendar year;

2. A fine of fifty dollars shall be charged for the third incident of a false alarm within a calendar year;

3. A fine of one hundred dollars shall be charged for the fourth incident of a false alarm within a calendar
year, and for each additional false alarm within each calendar year.

B. The alarm user shall be responsible for false alarms caused by any person having authorized access to the
premises from the alarm user.

1.15.120 - Defenses to false alarm violation.

It shall be an affirmative defense to a false alarm violation under this chapter that:

A. The false alarm for which the fine has been assessed did not originate at the premises of the alarm user
who has been assessed the fine;

B. The alarm for which the fine has been assessed was, in fact, not false, but was the result of actual or
attempted burglary, robbery or other emergency; or

C. Local law enforcement agency dispatch was notified by the alarm user or the alarm business that the
alarm was cancelled prior to the arrival of a peace officer to the subject premises.

1.15.130 - Penalties.

A. Knowingly providing false information to the alarm coordinator or failing to comply with the requirements of
this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by law.

B. All fines assessed under this chapter shall be due and payable within thirty days after written notice is issued.

C. Any fine not paid within thirty days will be assessed a late fee of ten percent of the original fine. Such late fee
will be assessed each thirty-day period that the fine remains unpaid.

D. If any fine is not paid within ninety days of the due date, lawful means as are available to collect such fines
may be used, including suspension of the alarm user permit.

1.15.140 - Appeal procedure.

A. Any alarm user shall have fourteen calendar days from the date of written notice of a fine assessment under
this section to request in writing an appeal hearing.

B. Any period between the filing of a written appeal as specified in this section, and the time when a final
decision is made, shall not count for the assessment of late fees for that violation.

C. The county sheriff or designee shall schedule and conduct the appeal hearing within fourteen calendar days of
the written request and shall render a written decision within seven calendar days after the appeal hearing is
concluded. Following issuance of the decision, late fees shall accrue until paid, as provided in Section 1.15.130

D. The county sheriff or designee may attempt to mediate and negotiate an agreement with the appellant and is
authorized to reduce or dismiss fines for good cause shown, such as excusable user error. Fines may also be
reduced or dismissed if an appellant agrees to attend a class or other training on the use of an alarm system.

E. Ifthe county sheriff or designee finds that no violation of this chapter occurred, or that a violation occurred but
one or more of the defenses set forth in this section is applicable, the sheriff or designee shall dismiss the fine
and release the alarm user from liability.

F. If the county sheriff or designee finds that a false alarm did occur and no applicable defense exists, the sheriff
or designee may, in the interest of justice, enter into an agreement for the timely periodic payment of the
applicable fine and late fees.

G. If an appellant is dissatisfied with the decision rendered by the county sheriff or designee, an appeal may be
filed in writing, within fourteen calendar days of the decision with the metro council, and heard consistent with
the procedures in Sections 1.02.140—1.02.180.

1.15.150 - Authority of the metro council to implement provisions of chapter.

The metro council shall have the authority to adopt policies implementing the provisions of this chapter and
may establish response priorities to any alarm.

Chapter 1.16 - MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS

Sections:

1.16.010 - Definitions.

For the purposes of this chapter:
"Massage" means the same as "Practice of massage therapy" as defined in Utah Code Annotated § 58-47b-102.
"Massage apprentice" is as defined in Utah Code Annotated § 58-47b-102.
"Massage establishment” means any place where a massage therapist conducts or carries on the business of the
practice of massage for a fee, gratuity or free demonstration.
"Massage therapist” is as defined in Utah Code Annotated § 58-47b-102.
1.16.020 - License—Required.

It is unlawful for any person to operate, conduct, carry on or maintain a massage establishment in the metro
without first obtaining a business license from the license official.

1.16.030 - License—Application and issuance restrictions.

Each individual desiring to operate a massage establishment shall:

A. Submit a license application with a certificate from the state signifying the applicant is licensed by the
state as a massage therapist.

B. Submit the location, including the street, building and room number of the place where the applicant
proposes to operate a massage establishment.

1.16.040 - License—Display required.

A. Every massage establishment licensed under this chapter shall display its massage establishment license in a
conspicuous place on the premises.

B. Every person while working as a massage therapist or apprentice shall maintain the person's massage therapist
or apprentice license in the person's possession or immediate presence.

1.16.050 - Investigation of applicant and premises.

A. All applications for massage establishment licenses shall be referred to:

1. The planning and development services division for zoning approval, and for a search of outstanding
arrest warrants;

2. The local fire agency for inspection to determine compliance with the provisions of the fire code; and

3. The Salt Lake County Health Department for investigation to determine the sanitary condition of the
premises and compliance with applicable health regulations.

B. Upon completion of the review by each of the foregoing agencies, the license application for a massage
establishment shall be submitted to the license official for further review and approval or denial in accordance
with the provisions of Sections 1.02.010 through 1.02.140 of this title.

C. An applicant for a license massage establishment may appeal the decision of the metro council chair to deny a
license in accordance with the procedure established under Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.16.060 - Unlawful conduct and activities.

A. It is unlawful for any person who is not licensed as a massage therapist or apprentice by the state to:

1. Practice or engage in massage therapy, or
2. Attempt to practice or engage in massage therapy, or
3. Falsely advertise or represent authority to practice or engage in massage therapy.

B. _ It is unlawful to serve, store or allow to be served or consumed, any alcoholic beverages on the premises of any
massage establishment.

1.16.070 - Exemptions.

The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to those individuals listed in Section 58-47b-304, Utah Code

Annotated, or any successor statute.

1.16.080 - License—Revocation or suspension—Appeals.

A. It shall be grounds for the revocation or suspension of the license of a massage establishment in accordance
with procedures established in Sections 1.07.020 and 1.07.030 if it is shown that:

1. The massage establishment has been operated or maintained contrary to state statute or metro ordinance;
or

2. Any employee of a massage establishment has performed massage contrary to state statute or metro
ordinance; or

3. The massage establishment has been operated contrary to the public health or the health of the patrons or

customers of the establishment or without due regard to proper sanitation or hygiene.

4. The massage establishment has violated any of the requirements of Section 1.07.020 of this title.

5. Any appeal of a decision to suspend or revoke the license of a massage establishment shall be heard in

accordance with the procedures established in Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

Chapter 1.17 - RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION

Sections:

1.17.010 - Purpose.

A. Persons residing in the metro have an inalienable interest in their personal safety, well-being, and privacy in
their residences, as well as their ability to provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief,
political or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in commerce.

B. The metro has a substantial interest in protecting the well-being, tranquility, personal safety, and privacy of its
citizens, which includes the ability to protect citizens from trespass upon residential property. The metro also
has a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or otherwise unfair consumer sales practices, and
from criminal activity.

C. There must be a balance between the substantial interests of the metro and its citizens and the effect of the
regulations in this chapter on the rights of those who are regulated, and based on the collective experiences of
metro officials and the license official derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and
property from criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens regarding door-to-door solicitation, the
experience of law enforcement officers and those affected by door-to-door canvassing and solicitation, as well
as judicial decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional protections afforded persons seeking to engage
in door-to-door solicitation, the metro adopts this chapter to promote the metro's substantial interests in:

1. Respecting citizens' decisions regarding privacy in their residences;

2. Discouraging persons from criminal conduct;

3. Providing equal opportunity to persons advocating in regard to religious belief, political position, or

charitable activity; and

4. Permitting truthful and nonmisleading door-to-door solicitation regarding lawful goods or services in

intrastate or interstate commerce.

D. The metro finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in this chapter are narrowly tailored to
preserve and protect the interests of the metro's citizens referred to herein while at the same time protecting the
rights of those regulated.

E. The provisions of this chapter shall apply only to activities and persons located within the metro.

1.17.020 - Definitions.

For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:

"Advocating" means speech or conduct intended to inform, promote, or support religious belief, political
position, or charitable activities.

"Appeals officer" means the metro council chair responsible for receiving information from the license official
and appellant regarding the denial or suspension of an identification badge and issuing a decision as required by this
chapter.

"Appellant" means the person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of an identification badge, either
personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor.

“Applicant” means an individual who is at least sixteen years of age. It shall not mean an entity which applies
for an identification badge permitting door-to-door solicitation.

"Application form" means a standardized form provided by the license official to an applicant to be completed
and submitted as part of registration.

"BCI report” means an original or copy, dated no older than one hundred eighty days prior to the date of the
application, of either: (1) a Utah Department of Public Safety Bureau of Criminal Identification verified criminal
history report personal to the applicant; or (2) verification by the Utah Department of Public Safety Bureau of
Criminal Identification that no criminal history rising to the level of a disqualifying status exists for the applicant.

"Business" means a commercial enterprise licensed by the license official as a person or entity under this, or
other provisions of the Copperton Metro Township Code of Ordinances, having a fixed or temporary physical
location within the metro.

"Charitable activities" means advocating by persons or entities that either are, or support, a charitable
organization.

"Charitable organization" means and includes any person, joint venture, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation, association, group, or other entity:

1. That is:

a. Voluntarily performing a benevolent, educational, health-related, philanthropic, humane, patriotic,
religious or eleemosynary activity; and/or is involved with social welfare or advocacy group, public
health project, environmental or conservation activity, or civic organization; or

b. For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement, or firefighter fraternal association; and

c. Established for any charitable purpose.

2. That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, and
qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
Current Internal Revenue Code provision for such status is found at 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3).

3. "Charitable organization" includes a chapter, branch, area, or office, or similar affiliate or any person
soliciting contributions within the state of Utah for a charitable organization that has its principal place of
business outside the state of Utah. "Charitable organization" shall be such entities as defined above, and
by the Charitable Solicitation Act of the Utah Code.

"Competent individual" means a person reasonably claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen years of age

and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage in rational thought, conversation, and conduct.

"Completed application" means a fully completed application form, a BCI report, two copies of the original
identification relied on by the applicant to establish proof of identity, and the tendering of fees.

"Criminally convicted" means the final judgment of a conviction, whether by a plea of no contest, a plea of
nolo contendere, a plea of guilty, or entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not been set aside on
appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal conviction is that offense of which the applicant or
registered solicitor was convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion of conditions
of probation or parole, or charges dismissed under a plea in abeyance or diversion agreement.

"Disqualifying status" means anything specifically defined in this chapter as requiring the denial or suspension
of an identification badge, and any of the following as relates to the applicant or registered solicitor:

1. Acriminal conviction for:

a. Homicide or manslaughter of any type, class or degree,

b. Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor,

c. The sale or distribution of controlled substances,

d. Sexual assault of any type, class or degree,

e. Theft of any type, class or degree,

f. | Robbery,

g. Burglary, or
h. Assault of any type, class or degree;
2. Acriminal conviction of a felony within the last ten years;
3. | Confinement or imprisonment in a federal or state prison within the past five years;
4. Criminal conviction of a misdemeanor within the past five years involving a crime of:
a. Moral turpitude, or
b. Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
5. A final civil judgment within the last five years indicating the applicant or registered solicitor had either
engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation;
6. Parole or probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house
arrest or subject to a tracking device;
7. An outstanding arrest warrant from any jurisdiction; or
8. Any protective order, based on physical or sexual abuse, issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
"Door-to-door solicitation" means the practice of engaging in or attempting to engage in conversation with any
person at a residence, regardless of said person's competency, while making or seeking to make or facilitate a home
solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or services.
"Entity" means and includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity,
organization, society or association.
"Exigent circumstances" means those circumstances requiring immediate action or aid to prevent or alleviate
harm or threats to public health, safety or welfare.
"Fees" means the cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the issuance of an identification
badge, which shall not exceed the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the identification badge.
Fees shall be established and updated on a yearly basis by the metro council, with input from the license official.
"Final civil judgment" means a civil judgment that would be recognized under state law as a judgment to which
collateral estoppel would apply.
"Goods" means one or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise, perishables of any kind,
subscriptions, or manufactured products offered, provided, or sold.
"Home solicitation sale" means to make or attempt to make a sale of goods or services by a solicitor at a
residence by means of door-to-door solicitation, regardless of:
1. The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
2. The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
3. The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or
similar designation.
"Identification badge" means a document permitting door-to-door solicitation in the metro applied for or issued
pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
"Moral turpitude” means so extreme a departure from ordinary standards of honesty, good morals, justice, or
ethics as to be shocking to the moral sense of the community.
"No solicitation sign” means a reasonably visible and legible sign that states "No Soliciting," "No Solicitors,"
"No Salespersons,” "No Trespassing," or words of similar import.
"Political position" means any actually held belief, or information for, against, or in conjunction with any
political, social, environmental, or humanitarian belief or practice.

"Registered solicitor" or "solicitor" means any person who has been issued a current identification badge by the
license official.

"Registration" means the process used by the license official to accept a completed application and determine
whether an identification badge will be granted.

"Religious belief" means any sincerely held belief, or information for, against, or in conjunction with, any
theistic, agnostic, or atheistic assumption, presumption or position, or religious doctrine, dogma, or practice. In
determining the presence of a sincerely held belief, the license official may consider:

1. | Whether the professor of such belief is part of a recognized religious body or denomination,

2. Whether said body is an entity recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as an organization qualified

under 26 U.S.C. 501(c)@),

3. Whether the professed belief is part of a larger scheme of beliefs relied upon by the adherents of the

beliefs as a pattern for their life's activities, and

4. The lawfulness of the activities deemed to be part of the adherents' beliefs.

5. The number of adherents to a particular belief shall not, by itself, form a basis for determination by the

license official whether the belief is sincerely held.

"Residence" means any living unit contained within any building or structure that is occupied by any person as
a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the metro, together with the lot or other real property on which the
living unit is located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street or public rights-of-way.

"Responsible person or entity" means that person or entity responsible to provide the following to an applicant,
registered solicitor, and the competent individual in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or
attempted to be made by means of a home solicitation sale:

1. Maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax number, computing the sales taxes owing

from any sale of goods or services, paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;

2. Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to cancel the sale pursuant to

applicable contractual rights or law; and

3. Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those persons who timely rescind any sale

pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law.

"Sale of goods or services" means the conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the competent individual in a
residence regarding a particular good(s) or service(s) that entitles the customer to rescind the same within three days
under any applicable federal, state or local law.

"Services" means those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided or sold to a competent
individual of a residence.

"Soliciting" or "solicit" or "solicitation" means any of the following activities:

1. Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or perishables of any

kind, for any kind of remuneration or consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;

2. Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase insurance, publications, or

subscription(s) to publications;

3. Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value for the benefit of any person or

entity;

4. Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or services;

5. Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of soliciting, such as hawking or

peddling.

"Submitted in writing" means the information for an appeal of a denial or suspension of an identification
badge, submitted in any type of written statement to the license official by certified, registered, priority, overnight or
delivery confirmation mail, facsimile, or hand delivery.

"Substantiated report" means an oral, written, or electronic report:

1. | That is submitted to and documented by any of the following:

a. A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or the license official with
publicly available identification of their name, address, and any other reliable means of contact,

b. A local law enforcement or the license official, or

c. Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level of government;

2. That provides any of the following information regarding a registered solicitor:

a. Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying status of a registered solicitor,

b. Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a disqualifying event which has not yet
been determined to result in a disqualifying status,

c. Documented, eye-witness accounts that the registered solicitor has engaged in repeated patterns of
behavior that demonstrate failure by the registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this
chapter, or

d. Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor creates exigent circumstances that
threaten the health, safety, or welfare of any individual or entity within the metro.

"Waiver" means the written form provided to an applicant by the license official wherein the applicant agrees
that the license official may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on the applicant for licensing
purposes under this chapter, and which contains the applicant's notarized signature.

1.17.030 - Exemptions from chapter.

The following are exempt from registration under this chapter:

A. Persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent individual prior to the time of the person's

arrival at the residence;

B. Persons whose license, permit, identification badge or registration with the state of Utah permits them to
engage in door-to-door solicitation to offer goods or services to an occupant of the residence;

C. Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously made order, or persons providing
services at a residence pursuant to a previously made request by a competent individual;

D. Persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in conjunction with, any religious belief,
or political position regardless of whether goods, services, or any other consideration is offered or given,
with or without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge, or purchase;

E. Persons Representing a Charitable Organization. The charitable exemption shall apply to students
soliciting contributions to finance extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs,
provided that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school administration, and that such
student solicitors carry current picture student identification from the educational institution for which
they are soliciting; and

F. Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties and prohibitions outlined in
Sections 1.17.140 through 1.17.160 while advocating or soliciting.

1.17.040 - Solicitation prohibited.

Unless otherwise authorized, permitted, or exempted pursuant to the terms and provisions of this chapter, the
practice of being in and upon a private residence within the metro by solicitors, for the purpose of home solicitation
sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is punishable as set forth in this chapter.

1.17.050 - Registration of solicitors.

Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, no person may engage in door-to-door solicitation within the
metro without first submitting a completed application to the license official and obtaining an identification badge.
1.17.060 - Application form and procedures.

A. The license official shall provide a standard application form for use for the registration of solicitors.

B. Upon submission to the license official of all information required by this Section 1.17.060, and a review of
said information by the license official in accordance with the requirements of Section 1.02.070 of this title, the
license official shall approve the application or recommend denial, in accordance with the procedures
established by Sections 1.02.010 through 1.02.140 of this title.

C. Upon request to the license official, or as otherwise provided, any person or entity may obtain in person, by
mail, or facsimile, a copy of this application form. Each application form shall require disclosure and reporting
by the applicant of the following information, documentation, and fee:

1. Review of Written Disclosures. An affirmation that the applicant has received and reviewed the

disclosure information required by this chapter.

2. Contact Information:

a. Applicant's true, correct and legal name, including any former names or aliases used during the last
ten years;

b. Applicant's then-current telephone number, local address and home address, if different, and local
mailing address and permanent mailing address, if different;

c. If different from the applicant, the permanent name, address, and then-current telephone number of
the responsible person or entity; and

d. The address to which all notices to the applicant required under this chapter are to be sent.

3. Proof of Identity. An in-person verification by the license official of the applicant's true identity by use of
any of the following, which must bear a recent photograph of said applicant:

| a. A valid driver's license issued by any state.
| i. Only a valid driver's license issued by a state shall be acceptable proof of identity;
| ii. A “driver's privilege card" or the like shall not be acceptable.

b. A valid identification card issued by any state to its residents who are nondrivers and who are also
lawful citizens of the United States.

c. A valid passport issued by the United States.

d. A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States Armed Forces.

e. If the photograph of the applicant contained within, or as part of, any of the foregoing evidences of
identity and was taken prior to the immediately preceding twelve months, the applicant shall also
submit a photograph taken within the immediately preceding twelve months. Upon verification of
identity, the original identification submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned to the
applicant.

4. Proof of Registration with Department of Commerce. The applicant shall provide proof that either the
applicant, or the responsible person or entity, has registered with the Utah State Department of
Commerce.

5. Special Events Sales Tax Number. The applicant shall provide a special events sales tax number for either
the applicant, or for the responsible person or entity for which the applicant will be soliciting.

6. Marketing Information.

a. The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any commonly known, registered or
trademarked names;

b. Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits, registrations, or other qualifications
required by federal or state law to promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or
services.

7. BCI Background Check:

a. An original or a copy of a Utah Bureau of Criminal Investigation (BCI) file as defined in the Utah
Code, as amended, pertaining to the applicant; and

b. A signed copy of a waiver whereby the applicant agrees to allow the license official to obtain a
name/date of birth BCI background check on the applicant, as permitted by the Utah Code, as
amended, for purposes of enforcement of this chapter.

8. Responses to Questions Regarding "Disqualifying Status." The applicant shall be required to answer each
of the following questions on the application form:

a. Has there been a criminal conviction of:

i. Homicide or manslaughter of any type, class or degree,

ii. Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor,

iii. The sale or distribution of controlled substances, as said offenses are described in Utah law,
iv. Sexual assault of any type, class or degree,

v. Theft of any type, class or degree,

vi. Robbery,

vii. Burglary, or

viii. Assault of any type, class or degree.

b. — Any criminal conviction of a felony within the last ten years.

c. Any confinement or imprisonment in a federal or state prison within the past five years;

d. Any criminal conviction of a misdemeanor within the past five years involving a crime of:

i. Moral turpitude, or
ii Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;

e. A final civil judgment within the last five years indicating fraud or intentional misrepresentation;

f. Parole or probation from any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under
house arrest or subject to a tracking device;

g. An outstanding arrest warrant from any jurisdiction; and

h. Any protective order, based on physical or sexual abuse, issued by a court of competent
jurisdiction?

9. Fee. The applicant shall pay such fees as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule approved by the metro
council and on file with the license official.

10. Execution of Application. The applicant shall execute the application form, stating upon oath or
affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the
information provided is complete, truthful and accurate.

1.17.070 - Written disclosures.

The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying the applicant of the following:

A. The applicant's submission of the application authorizes the license official to verify information
submitted with the completed application including but not limited to:

1. The applicant's address;

2. The applicant's and/or responsible person or entity's state tax identification and special use tax
numbers, if any;
3. The validity of the applicant's proof of identity.

B. The license official may consult any and all data sources for information on the applicant, including but
not limited to, databases for any outstanding warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments.

C. Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is allowed.

D. The fee that must be submitted by the applicant with a completed application.

E. The applicant must submit a BCI background check report with a completed application.

F. To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant's BC] background check report shall
remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public inspection.

G. The license official will maintain copies of the application form, proof of identity, and identification
badge or card. These copies will become public records available for inspection on demand at the license
official’s office whether an identification badge is denied, granted, or renewed.

H. The criteria for disqualifying status, denial, or suspension of an identification badge under the provisions
of this chapter.

I]. Unless the license official determines that further investigation is necessary in accordance with Sections
1.02.090 and 1.02.110 of this title, a request for a temporary identification badge will be granted or
denied within a reasonable period of time after a completed application is submitted.

1.17.080 - When registration begins.

A. The license official shall not begin the registration process until the applicant has submitted a completed
application.

B. The original proof of identity shall be retumed after the license official verifies the applicant's identity. A copy
of the proof of identity will be retained by the license official.

C. The license official shall make and keep a copy of any BCI report submitted by the applicant and return the
original to the applicant.

1.17.090 - Form of identification badge or card.

A. Identification Badge or Card.

1. Each registered solicitor shall be issued an identification badge by the license official to be displayed at

all times while soliciting in the metro, and which is to contain the following:
a. The name “Copperton Metro Township;"
b. The name address and phone number of the registered solicitor;
c. The name, address, and phone number of the responsible person or entity, if any;
d. Arecent photograph of the registered solicitor; and
e. The date on which the identification badge expires.
1.17.100 - Maintenance of registry.

The license official shall maintain and make available for public inspection a copy or record of every
completed application received and the identification badge or written denial issued by the metro council chair. The
license official may furnish to the head of the local law enforcement agency a listing of all applicants, both those
denied and those issued an identification badge.

1.17.110 - Nontransferability of identification badges.
A. Identification badges shall be nontransferable.
B.A registered solicitor shall submit a written change request to the license official if the solicitor:

1. Desires to engage in home solicitation sales of different goods or services from those designated in the
original application, or

2. Desires to designate different responsible persons or entities from those designated in the original
application.

C. If approved, a new identification badge based on the written change request shall issue for the balance of time
remaining on the registered solicitor's previous identification badge before the written change request was
filed.

D. Before the new identification badge is given to the registered solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a
revised identification badge or card from the license official, after payment of the fee for the identification
badge or card.

1.17.120 - Denial, suspension or revocation of an identification badge—Appeals.

A. In addition to the grounds for suspension or revocation set forth in Chapter 1.07, every identification badge
may be revoked or suspended for the following reasons:

1. The application form is not complete or correct;
2. The applicant fails to:

a. _ Establish proof of identity,

b. Provide a BCI report, or

c. Pay the fees.

3. The completed application or BCI report indicates that the applicant has a disqualifying status.

4. An identification badge was previously denied or revoked by the metro on grounds that still constitute a
disqualifying status under this chapter.

1. Since the submission of the completed application:

a. The applicant has become subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status.

b. The metro has received a substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the applicant
that discloses a disqualifying status.

c. The metro or another governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil
injunction against the applicant for violating this chapter or similar federal, state, or municipal laws
or ordinances in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying status.

d. A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant indicating the applicant engaged in
fraud or intentional misrepresentation.

B. Suspension or Revocation.

1. An identification badge shall be suspended or revoked when any of the reasons warranting the denial of
an identification badge occurs.

C. Decisions to revoke or suspend an identification badge shall be made by the license official in accordance with
the procedures established by Sections 1.07.020 and 1.07.030 of this title.

D. Any appeal of a decision to deny, suspend or revoke an identification badge shall be heard by the metro
council in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.17.130 - Deceptive soliciting practices prohibited.

A. No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.

B. A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the consumer during face-to-face solicitation:

1. The name of the solicitor;
2. The name and address of the entity with whom the solicitor is associated, if any; and

3. The purpose of the solicitor's contact with the consumer and/or competent individual. This requirement
may be satisfied through the use of the identification badge or card and an informational flyer.

C. Solicitors shall not use a fictitious name, an alias or any name other than the solicitor's true and correct name.

D. No solicitor shall represent directly or by implication that the granting of an identification badge implies an
endorsement by the metro of the solicitor's goods or services or of the individual solicitor.

1.17.140 - "No solicitation” notice.

A. Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse solicitors by displaying a "No Solicitation
Sign" which shall be posted on or near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the
sidewalk leading to the residence.

B. The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of
the residence does not desire to receive and/or does not invite solicitors.

C. It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each residence for the presence of any such notice.

1.17.150 - Duties of solicitors.

A. Every registered solicitor shall check each residence for a "No Solicitation Sign."

B. A registered solicitor shall:

1. Not knock on the door, nor ring the doorbell, nor make any other attempt to attract the attention of an
occupant of a residence that bears a "No Solicitation Sign" for the purpose engaging in a home
solicitation sale, door-to-door soliciting, or soliciting.

2. Immediately and peacefully depart when asked by an occupant of a residence or dwelling to do so.

3. | Avoid any unreasonable physical contact or touching of another person without the person's consent.

4. Not follow a person into a residence without the person's explicit consent.

5. Not continue repeated soliciting after a person has communicated a lack of interest in the subject, goods
or services of the solicitor.

6 Not use obscene language or gestures or "fighting words" within the presence of any person to whom the
solicitor is attempting to sell goods or services.

7. Not use ruse, deception, or fraudulent concealments of purpose to solicit or to take action calculated to
secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.

C. It is a violation of this chapter for a registered solicitor to take or fail to take any action prohibited or required
under subparagraph (B) of this section. Possession of an identification badge does not relieve a solicitor of this
duty.

1.17.160 - Time of day restrictions.

It is unlawful for any solicitor, to solicit at a residence before nine a.m. or after nine p.m. local time, unless the

solicitor has express prior permission from the resident to do so.

1.17.170 - Buyer's right to cancel.

In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to provide goods or services without delay

im an emergency, the seller or solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain the buyer's signature to a written

statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel if said right is exercised within three business days after

signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "Buyer's right to cancel" shall be in the form required by the Utah

Uniform Commercial Code as contained in the Utah Code or a current version thereof, or any state or federal law

modifying or amending such provision.

1.17.180 - No other metro license or approval required.

A. Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license,
permit or registration from the metro to engage in door-to-door solicitation.

B. Any business licensed by the license official under another metro ordinance that uses employees, independent
contractors, or agents for door-to-door solicitation in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to
the business, shall be required to have such solicitors obtain an identification badge, unless otherwise exempt
from registration.

C. Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any
other license, permit, or registration from the license official, provided they do not establish a temporary or
fixed place of business in the metro.

D. Nothing herein is intended to interfere with or supplant any other requirement of federal, state, or other local
government law or ordinance regarding any license, permit or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise
required to have or maintain.

1.17.190 - Penalties.

A. Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor for
each violation and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars and/or a jail sentence not to
exceed six months for each violation.

B. Any entity which violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor for
each violation and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five thousand dollars for each violation.

1.17.200 - Savings clause.

If any portion of this chapter should be declared void, illegal, unconstitutional or ultra vires by the final
decision of a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this chapter shall remain in full force and
effect, and enforceable.

Chapter 1.18 - TAXICABS

Sections:

| 1.18.010 - Taxicab defined.

| "Taxicab," when used in this chapter, means any motor vehicle with a seating capacity of five passengers or
less, not including the driver, or a van with a passenger seating capacity of six to twelve, not including the driver,
used in the on demand, for hire transportation of passengers or baggage over the public streets and not operated over

a fixed route or upon a fixed schedule, but which is subject for contract hire by persons desiring special trips from

one point to another. A taxicab under this chapter does not include a transportation network company, a

transportation network driver, or transportation network services as defined by the Transportation Network

Company Registration Act, U.C.A. § 13-51-101 et seq., or its successor.

1.18.020 - Business License—Required.

A. It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation (hereinafter referred to as "owner") to engage in the business
of operating a taxicab within the metro without first obtaining a business license.

B. If the owner has obtained a current business license from elsewhere within the state, the metro will honor that
license.

C. If the owner has a business office within the metro, the owner shall obtain a business license in accordance
with the procedures established in Chapter 1.02 of this title.

D. Any appeal of a decision regarding the grant or denial of a taxicab business license shall be heard in
accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

E. Owners shall not be required to obtain taxicab licenses for vehicles in their fleet.

1.18.030 - License—Insurance or bond requirements.

A. After approval of the application and prior to the issuance of a business license, the applicant shall submit to
the license official a policy of insurance in such amounts as the Director shall from time to time determine
appropriate, executed by an insurance company qualified to do business in the state, and approved by the
Director, insuring any person against loss or damage to person or property resulting from the negligent
operation of any taxicab operated by or on behalf of the owner thereof

B. In lieu of a policy of insurance, taxicab owners may file surety bonds with the license official in such amounts
as the Director shall from time to time determine appropriate, keeping the same in full force and effect during
the entire period for which such taxicab is covered by the license issued hereunder. Bonds shall be in such
form as the Director may deem proper, executed by a responsible and solvent surety company authorized to do
business under the laws of the state, and so conditioned that the taxicab owner will pay all final judgments
rendered against him for damages.

1.18.040 - License—Financial responsibility—Salt Lake City taxicabs.

In the event the taxicab is licensed as such by Salt Lake City, there may be submitted, in lieu of the actual
policies and/or bonds, an affidavit that policies and bonds are in effect in the amounts prescribed and are on file in
Salt Lake City and, in such case, the applicant shall keep the same in full force and effect during the whole period
for which such taxicab is covered by a license issued hereunder.

1.18.050 - Driver's license—Requirements.

A. An owner may not obtain a business license until the owner provides a list of all drivers of the owner's
taxicabs, together with evidence that each driver has a current motor vehicle chauffeur's permit issued by the
state, authorizing the transportation of passengers.

B. Additionally, prior to issuing a business license, the license official shall verify that no driver of the owner's
taxicabs has any outstanding arrest warrants.

C. After a business license has been issued, the owner shall ensure that all drivers of owner's taxicabs are free of
arrest warrants and have current motor vehicle chauffer's permits.

1.18.060 - Business licenses—Suspension or revocation conditions.

A. In addition to the grounds for suspension or revocation of business licenses provided in Copperton Metro
Township Code Section 1.07.020, an owner's business license may be suspended or revoked for failure to
comply with the requirements of this chapter. The procedure for doing so shall be as prescribed in Copperton
Metro Township Code Section 1.07.030 et seq.

B. Appeals of decisions to suspend or revoke a license under this section shall be heard as provided in Sections
1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.18.070 - Rate schedule—Filing—Compliance.

A. It shall be the duty of every owner to file with the license official a schedule of the rates to be charged in the
operation of taxicabs, and the method upon which such rates shall be computed. Prior to any change in either
the rates of fare or the method of computing the same, such owner must file the same with the license official

B. No owner shall charge or attempt to charge any passenger a rate of fare other or different than that which has
been heretofore filed with the license official in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.

1.18.080 - Rate schedule—Posting in taxicab.

The driver of each taxicab shall display in a conspicuous place in the inside of the vehicle being operated,
where the same may be easily read by every person riding therein, a schedule of the rates or, if the rates are based on
zones, the zone map explaining the charges to be assessed.

1.18.090 - Taximeters.

If the rates to be charged are to be computed by taximeters, it shall be the duty of every owner to keep the
taximeter thereon in good and workable condition, and at the beginning of every employment to set such taximeter
in the usual way so that it will register and compute on a mileage basis while said taxicab is running, and on a time
basis while waiting; and such taximeter shall be so placed that the face thereof where the fare is registered will be
plainly visible to passengers within the taxicab.

1.18.100 - Operation—Most direct route required.

Any driver employed carrying passengers to a definite point shall take the most direct route possible that will
carry the passenger safely and expeditiously to the desired destination.

1.18.110 - Duty to transport passengers.

It is unlawful for any taxicab driver, while engaged in operating a taxicab, except as permitted herein, to refuse
to convey any person for any lawful purpose, with or without baggage, upon demand and tender of the lawful fare,

or, having undertaken to convey such person, to thereafter willfully to refuse or neglect so to do; provided, there
shal! be no duty hereunder for any taxicab driver to transport any person who the taxicab driver reasonably believes
to be engaging in illegal conduct, or who is acting in a loud, boisterous or unruly manner.

1.18.120 - Additional passengers—Restrictions.

Whenever a taxicab driver is transporting a passenger or passengers, such passenger or passengers shall have
the exclusive right to full and free use of the passenger compartment, and it is unlawful for the taxicab driver to
solicit or carry an additional passenger or passengers therein, except with the consent of the passenger or passengers
then being transported.

1.18.130 - Right to demand fare in advance.

The owner or driver of any licensed taxicab shall have the right to demand in advance the minimum fare of any
person employing the owner or driver, and may refuse to convey any person who shall not comply with such
demand.

1.18.140 - Refusal to pay fare prohibited.

A. It is unlawful for any person, having hired any licensed taxicab and having ridden therein, to refuse to pay the
fare, not exceeding the rates prescribed in the schedule or zone maps permitted under this chapter.

B. It is unlawful for any taxicab driver to charge rates different from those prescribed.

1.18.150 - Driver's duty to disclose information.

It is unlawful for the owner of any particular taxicab or for any taxicab driver, upon being requested so to do
by a passenger or law enforcement officer, to refuse to give the name of the taxicab driver.
1.18.160 - Operation—Driver to remain near vehicle.

It is unlawful for any person, while engaged as taxicab driver, to leave the vehicle for a distance of more than
ten feet, except for the purpose of securing, when requested, the baggage of patrons.
1.18.170 - Alcoholic beverages prohibited.

It is unlawful for any person, while engaged in operating a taxicab, to drink intoxicating liquors or alcoholic
beverages of any kind, including beer, regardless of the limit of its alcoholic content.

1.18.180 - Fraud and misrepresentation prohibited.
| It is unlawful for the driver of any taxicab, or for any person soliciting patronage for any taxicab, to practice
| any deceit, fraud or misrepresentation in any manner whatever relative to matters pertaining to the business.
y y
Chapter 1.19 - SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Sections:
1.19.010 - Short-term rental defined.

"Short-term rental" means any dwelling or condominium or portion thereof that is available for use or is
actually used for accommodations or lodging of guests for a period of less than thirty consecutive days, wherein
guests pay a fee or other compensation for said use.

1.19.020 - License—Required.

It is unlawful to conduct or operate a short-term rental without having obtained a license therefor.

1.19.030 - License—Application—Contents.
A. Applications shall contain the following information:

1. The location of the short-term rental,

2. The number of rooms therein contained,

3. The number of persons the short-term rental will accommodate,

4. The name of a property manager,

5. A sales tax collection and accounting number,

6. The name, address and telephone number of a local responsible party who is available by telephone

twenty-four hours per day, and

7. Such other information as the license official shall from time to time require.

B. The application shall include a statement by the applicant affirming that the applicant is currently in
compliance with all legal requirements and has paid all applicable taxes, fees and other charges, including but
not limited to the transient room tax.

1.19.040 - License—Application—Investigation.

A. Applications shall be referred by the license official to the local fire agency and Salt Lake County Health
Department or such other agency as the license official may deem appropriate to make or cause to be made an
investigation of the short-term rental premises, the applicant and other relevant matters. Agency
recommendation as to the issuance or denial of the license, based on the above inspections, shall then be
referred to the license official for approval or denial in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.010
through 1.02.140 of this title.

B. A license that has been granted may be suspended or revoked for any violation of the provisions of this
chapter, or for any of the reasons as contained in Section 1.07.020 of this title.

C. Any appeal of a decision to deny, suspend or revoke a license shall be heard in accordance with those
procedures established by Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.19.050 - License—Fee.

The annual fee for a license under this chapter shall be the same as the general business license fee, as defined
in Section 1.08.040 of this title. A license with applicable fee is required for each separate short-term rental
property.

1.19.060 - Inspections for compliance.

After a license has been granted, the license official may make periodic inspections of a short-term rental to
ensure compliance with this chapter and all other applicable law.

1.19.070 - Maintenance—Structures and grounds—Other requirements and limitations.

A. A short-term rental shall be maintained to the following minimum standards:

1. Periodic housekeeping service shall be provided by the owner, including removal of trash to the nearest

collection point, on at least a weekly basis.

| 2. Short-term rentals may not be used for any of the following:
a. Commercial purposes not otherwise permitted in the zone;
b. Distribution of retail products or personal services to invitees for marketing or similar purposes; or
c. The outdoor display of goods and merchandise for sale.

B. The access to the short-term rental unit and the layout of the short-term rental shall be designed so that noise
and physical trespass from the short-term rental unit is not likely to be a substantial intrusion on adjoining
properties. If the short-term rental unit is a single family home, duplex, condominium or other dwelling place
and shares an access, hallway, common wall, or driveway with another dwelling, written consent of the owner
of the other dwelling is required.

C. Responsible Party.

1. The licensee must designate a responsible party who is an individual or property management company

residing or maintaining an office in Salt Lake County.

2. The responsible party is personally liable for failure to properly manage the short-term rental.

3. | The responsible party must be available by telephone, or otherwise, twenty-four hours per day and must

be able to respond to inquiries within twenty minutes of receipt of an inquiry.

D. The licensee must have a sales tax collection and sales tax accounting number for the rental operation and the
sales tax number must be included on the short-term rental application. All applicable taxes, charges and fees,
including the transient room tax, must be paid in full during the period of licensure.

1.19.080 - Nameplate sign.

A. One nameplate sign shall be permanently attached to the building in a conspicuous location near the front
entrance of the short-term rental. The nameplate sign shall:

1. Provide the name and telephone number of at least one responsible individual located within Salt Lake
County that can be contacted twenty-four hours a day,

2. Contain the occupant load of the building as allowed by the International Building Code,

3. Be made of durable, weather resistant material,

4. Not exceed three inches by five inches in dimension, and

5. Contain no advertising.

1.19.090 - Separate violations.

For purposes of prosecution of violations of this chapter, each day that any violation occurs, or that applicable
taxes and fees are unpaid, is deemed to constitute a separate violation.

Chapter 1.20 - SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING

Sections:

1.20.010 - Title for citation.

The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be titled the "Sexually Oriented Businesses and Employee

Licensing Ordinance."

1.20.020 - Purposes of provisions and findings.

A. It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to:

1. Establish reasonable and uniform regulations governing the time, place and manner of operation of
sexually oriented businesses and their employees in the metro;

2. Reduce the adverse secondary effect that such businesses have upon communities, including the metro;
and

3. Protect the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the metro.

B. This chapter shall be construed to protect the governmental interests recognized by this chapter consistent with
protections provided by the constitutions of the United States and the state of Utah. It is not the intent nor
effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the first
amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
intended market.

C. Findings: Based on findings incorporated in the cases of Pap's A.M. v. City of Erie, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City
of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50
(1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972);
O'Connor v. City and County of Denver, 894 F.2d 1210 (10th Cir. 1990); Z.J. Gifts D-2, L.L.C. v. City of
Aurora, 136 F.3d 683 (10th Cir. 1998); Dodger's Bar & Grill Inc. v. Johnson County, 98 F.3d 1262 (10th Cir.
1996); Connection Distrib. Co. v. Reno, 154 F.3d 281 (6th Cir. 1998); Sundance Assocs. v. Reno, 139 F.3d
804 (10th Cir. 1998); American Library Association v. Reno, 33 F.3d 78 (D.C. Cir. 1994); Dodger's Bar &
Grill, Inc. v. Johnson County, 32 F.3d 1436 (10th Cir. 1994); American Target Advertising, Inc. v. Giani, 199
F.3d 1241; MS News Co. v. Casado, 721 F.2d 1281 (10th Cir. 1983); Cortese v. Black, No. 95-1429, 1996
U.S. App. LEXIS 15311 (10th Cir., June 25, 1996); Salt Lake City v. Wood, 1999 Utah App. 323, 991 P.2d
595 (Utah Ct. App. 1999); United States v. Freedberg, 724 F.Supp. 851 (D. Utah 1989); and other cases; and
on testimony to Congress in 136 Cong. Rec. S 8987; 135 Cong. Rec. S. 14519; 135 Cong. Rec. S 5636; 134
Cong. Rec. E 3750; and reports of secondary effects occurring in and around sexually oriented businesses,
