COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-O-07 DATE: December 17, 2025
AN ORDINANCE OF THE COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL ENACTING SECTION
15.08.011 OF THE COPPERTON MUNICIPAL CODE TO ADOPT THE 2006 EDITION
OF THE UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE AND TO ADOPT AN
OFFICIAL WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE MAP FOR THE TOWN OF
COPPERTON TO COMPLY WITH H.B. 48

WHEREAS, in accordance with H.B. 48, effective January 1, 2026, municipalities are
encouraged to adopt the 2006 Edition of the Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code (““UWUIC”)
and a corresponding map depicting those areas within their jurisdictional boundaries that are
subject to UWUIC; and

WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 301 of UWUIC, the Copperton Town Council
shall determine the UWUIC areas within its jurisdiction after review and consideration of the
information and maps published by the Division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands (“FFSL”); and

WHEREAS, the Copperton Town Council has reviewed the FFSL UWUIC information
and maps currently available; and

WHEREAS, the Copperton Town Council has also consulted with Unified Fire Authority
to develop an official Wildland-Urban Area Interface Area that depicts those lands within the
jurisdictional boundaries of Copperton that qualify as wildland-urban interface areas; and

WHEREAS, Section 301 of UWUIC authorizes the Copperton Council to modify its
UWUIC areas every three (3) years or as deemed necessary; and

WHEREAS, Copperton staff prepared a draft ordinance to comply with H.B. 48 and the
Copperton Planning Commission held a duly noticed public haring on December 3, 2025, pursuant
to Utah Code §§ 10-20-205(2)(b)(ii) and -502, on the same; and

WHEREAS, the Copperton Planning Commission issued a negative recommendation on
the draft ordinance on principal due to concerns about local control.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY ORDAINED by the Copperton Town Council AS
FOLLOWS:

L. Enactment of 2006 Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code: Section 15.08.011 of
the Copperton Municipal Code is enacted to read as follows:

15.08.011 2006 Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code

The 2006 Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code along with any amendments shall

apply to those areas within the Town that the Council designates as wildland-urban

interface areas in the Town's official Wildland-Urban Interface Map.

2 Enactment of Wildland-Urban Interface Map: The map attached as Exhibit 1 is

Page 1 of 5

enacted as the official Wildland-Urban Interface Map for the Town of Copperton, which map
depicts those areas within the jurisdictional limits of Copperton that are subject to the UWUIC.

3. Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this ordinance, or specific
application of this ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full
force and effect.

4. Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and directed
to take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law,
including but not limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b)
to finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making non-
substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.

5. Effective Date: This ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its
posting.

[execution on following page]
amore “levels” with
¥ amendment to odjusr Map TO ¥ hin
Numbers and colors ancl mate all areas w
Wu ma ain Code \ooundaries Indicated in
unified color.
Page 2 of 5

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Copperton Town Council on this
17" day of December 2025.
COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL
By: ean)Cla ‘gn, Mayor
ATTEST
— pume Baws
Diana Baun, Clerk
Voting:
Council Member Bailey voting pesent
Council Member Clayton voting wae
Council Member McCalmon voting QUO
Council Member Severson voting Qu4p
Council Member Stitzer voting LUAe
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was posted to the Town of Copperton’s website, the Utah Public Notice
website, and in a public place within the Town of Copperton per Utah Code §10-3-
711: Derember 18,2078
Effective date of ordinance: Decem key | a 2025S
Page 3 of 5

SUMMARY OF
TOWN OF COPPERTON
ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-07
On December 17, 2025, the Copperton Ton Council enacted Ordinance No. 2025-0-07
to enact Chapter 15.08.011 of the Copperton Municipal Code and to adopt an official Town
of Copperton Wildland-Urban Interface Map in accordance with H.B. 48.
COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL
FI ,
By: Sean al
ATTEST
Diana Baun, Clerk
Voting:
Council Member Bailey voting Arseny
Council Member Clayton voting
Council Member McCalmon voting
Council Member Severson voting
Council Member Stitzer voting
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-07 is available in the office of the Copperton
Town Clerk, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah 84123.
Page 4 of §

EXHIBIT 1
Official Wildland-Urban Interface Map for the Town of Copperton
Page 5 of 5

nosh
Copperton for,
= Ys Was, /
Wildland-Urban Interface Map
R ja
nN © 0.25 0.5 Miles =
A A 0 A F< *
/ \ oO 0.25 0.5 Kilometers
5873 jt
UNINCORPORATED €
a
<
yor Kennecott Rd
CORPERTON
ind
Bin ee
o
£
w park ©
Le
Copperton Park
Bingham Lt
Creek Ey a
Reservoir # as
"te p
& on,
Si a
e - o
Structure Exposure Score “ean,
a
Exposure i 5465 ft
7-Very High
8 - Extreme
(nr Municipal Services
a0 District
2.
e
a. COPPERTON
UTAH a

a ” me . — » <7 . = ~eL aoe ee Te . ay ae ee aah
es oe OS 2 . or “ : ty i son Ve ie ee maze) ‘top sane Med “> A ae .
eek, Oa ‘ be Ee Pages Sato-te ee Vike MOAR Clete i; i at en i]
. See) ie ee at | Sit eee ay Ry Paige ok ae 7
Pi Re ae i gt a. ¢ ~ i ‘ a ' 2 Fr ie eee Gy F Waa > Te RS 1 poem Na a di
“= A b » ie Z “= 5 os 5 7 ag x , + eR ry, . me
a ee PW Yn sf ae Se , ue ee & . . , Se Be Ke ' BOs ys
ihe. tet eee . : Siro ay ae % +, Ngg Se ae tad ity , Sa ee Nee ; e
oo Oe ’ Pi .% se S> tegpte ein iat ‘ \y Sa “ Me Sa.’ oe "5 ie x: ‘a 7 id a Be Le A
rs id Ne! Ale bay a Ta Nb <TR ar, § ¥ ‘ar tk - * iS ee 7 tek. :
SS ger SO, Sa gee yy MS eS ER. Ba
mF aS, ee, See eee oe) a re Cory - ae - e DaaN " Pot FBP ee ee
a SNA oe ; «iM pe er ee 2- eat . +e Se es x at <a. ie!
— _— ogo . : = a
Lee EO ER SS, RR A RS
% |
4 \
A
t iad
INTERNATIONAL
CODE COUNCIL”

2006 Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code
First Printing: July 2006
Second Printing: October 2006
Third Printing: March 2007
Fourth Printing: February 2008
Fifth Printing: June 2008
COPYRIGHT © 2006
by
INTERNATIONAL CODE COUNCIL, INC.
ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. This 2006 Utah Wildland-Urban Interface Code contains substantial copyrighted material from the
2003 International Wildland-Urban Interface Code, which is a copyrighted work owned by the International Code Council, Inc.
Without advance written permission from the copyright owner, no part of this book may be reproduced, distributed or transmitted in
any form or by any means, including, without limitation, electronic, optical or mechanical means (by way of example and not limita-
tion, photocopying, or recording by or in an information storage retrieval system). For information on permission to copy material
exceeding fair use, please contact: Publications, 4051 West Flossmoor Road, Country Club Hills, IL 60478-5771. Phone
1-888-ICC-SAFE (422-7233).
Trademarks: “International Code Council,” the “International Code Council” logo and the “International Residential Code” are
trademarks of the International Code Council, Inc.
PRINTED IN THE U.S.A.

Introduction

Internationally, code officials recognize the need for a modern, up-to-date code addressing the mitigation of fire in the urban-wildland in-
terface. The /nternational Wildland- Urban Interface Code™ , in this 2003 edition, is designed to bridge the gap between enforcement of the
International Building Code® and International Fire C ‘ode® by mitigating the hazard of wildfires through model code regulations, which
safeguard the public health and safety in all communities, large and small.

This comprehensive urban-wildland interface code establishes minimum regulations for land use and the built environment in desig-
nated urban-wildland interface areas using prescriptive and performance-related provisions. It is founded on data collected from tests and
fire incidents, technical reports and mitigation strategies from around the world. This 2003 edition is fully compatible with all the /nterna-
tional Codes™ (“I-Codes” ™)} published by the International Code Council® (ICC®), including the International Building Code", [cc
Electrical Code™ , International Energy Conservation Code®, International Existing Builiding Code®, International Fire Code™, Interna-
tional Fuel Gas Code®, International Mechanical Code®, ICC Performance Code™ , International Plumbing Code®, International Pri-
vate Sewage Disposal Code™, International Property Maintenance Code®, International Residential Code™ and International Zoning
Code™.

The International Wildland-Urban Interface Code provisions provide many benefits, including the model code development process,
which offers an international forum for fire safety professionals to discuss performance and prescriptive code requirements. This forum
provides an excellent arena to debate proposed revisions. This model code also encourages international consistency in the application of
provisions.

Development

This is the first edition of the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code (2003) and is the culmination of an effort initiated in 2001 by
the ICC and the three statutory members of the International Code Council: Building Officials and Code Administrators International, Inc.
(BOCA), International Conference of Building Officials (CBO) and Southern Building Code Congress International (SBCCT). The intent
was to draft a comprehensive set of regulations for mitigating the hazard to life and property from the intrusion of fire from wildland expo-
sures and fire from adjacent structures, and preventing structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels. Technical content of the 2000
Wildland- Urban Interface Code, published by the International Fire Code Institute, was utilized as the basis for the development, followed
by the publication of the 2001 Final Draft. This 2003 edition is based on the Final Draft, with changes approved in the 2002 ICC Code De-
velopment Process. A new edition such as this is promulgated every three years.

With the development and publication of the family of International Codes in 2000, the continued development and maintenance of the
model codes individually promulgated by BOCA (“BOCA National Codes”), ICBO (“Uniform Codes”) and SBCCI (“Standard Codes”)
was discontinued. The 2003 International Codes, as well as their predecessors—the 2000 International Codes—are intended to be the suc-
cessor set of codes to those codes previously developed by BOCA, ICBO and SBCCI.

The development of a single family of comprehensive and coordinated International Codes was a significant milestone in the develop-
ment of regulations for the built environment. The timing of this publication mirrors a milestone in the change in structure of the model
codes, namely, the pending consolidation of BOCA, ICBO and SBCCT into the ICC. The activities and services previously provided by the
individual model code organizations will be the responsibility of the consolidated ICC.

This code is founded on principles intended to mitigate the hazard from fires through the development of provisions that adequately pro-
tect public health, safety and welfare; provisions that do not unnecessarily increase construction costs; provisions that do not restrict the use
of new materials, products or methods of construction; and provisions that do not give preferential treatment to particular types or classes of
materials, products or methods of construction.

Adoption

The International Wildland-Urban Interface Code is available for adoption and use by jurisdictions internationally. Its use within a govern-
mental jurisdiction is intended to be accomplished through adoption by reference in accordance with proceedings establishing the jurisdic-
tion’s laws. At the time of adoption, jurisdictions should insert the appropriate information in provisions requiring specific local
information, such as the name of the adopting jurisdiction. These locations are shown in bracketed words in small capital letters in the code
and in the sample ordinance. The sample adoption ordinance on page v addresses several key elements of a code adoption ordinance,
including the information required for insertion into the code text.

2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE iii

Maintenance

The International Wildland-Urban Interface Code is kept up-to-date through the review of proposed changes submitted by code
enforcing officials, industry representatives, design professionals and other interested parties. Proposed changes are carefully
considered through an open code development process in which all interested and affected parties may participate.

The contents of this work are subject to change both through the Code Development Cycles and the governmental body that enacts the
code into law. For more information regarding the code development process, contact the Code and Standard Development Department of
the International Code Council.

Although the development procedure of the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code assures the highest degree of care, ICC and
the founding members of ICC—BOCA, ICBO and SBCCI—their members and those participating in the development of this code do not
accept any liability resulting from compliance or noncompliance with the provisions, because ICC and its founding members do not have
the power or authority to police or enforce compliance with the contents of this code. Only the governmental body that enacts the code into
law has such authority.

Authority

The Division is required to establish minimum standards for a wildland fire ordinance and specify minimum standards for wildland fire
training, certification and wildland fire suppression equipment in accordance with subsections 65A-8-6(3)(a) and 65A-8-6(3)(b). This re-
quirement is promulgated under general rule-making authority of subsection 65A-1-4(2).

iv 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

The International Codes are designed and promulgated to be adopted by reference by ordinance. Jurisdictions wishing to adopt the 2003
International Wildland-Urban Interface Code as an enforceable regulation for the mitigation of fire in the urban-wildland interface should
ensure that certain factual information is included in the adopting ordinance at the time adoption is being considered by the appropriate
governmental body. The following sample adoption ordinance addresses several key elements of acode adoption ordinance, including the
information required for insertion into the code text.
Minimum Standards for Wildland Fire Ordinance
The division uses the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code as a basis for establishing the minimum standards discussed in this
document. A county ordinance that at least meets the minimum standards should be in place by September 2006.
The Division incorporates by reference the 2003 International Code Council Wildland-Urban Interface Code as the minimum standard
for wildland fire ordinance in conjunction with Utah requirements.
An ordinance of the [JURISDICTION] adopting the 2003 edition of the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code as currently
amended by the division of Forestry, Fire and State Lands, regulating and governing the mitigation of hazard to life and property from the
intrusion of fire from wildland exposures, fire from adjacent structures and prevention of structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels in
the [JURISDICTION] ; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; repealing Ordinance No. of the _[JU-
RISDICTION]_and all other ordinances and parts of the ordinances in conflict therewith.
The [GOVERNING BODY] _of the [JURISDICTION] does ordain as follows:
Section 1. That a certain document, three (3) copies of which are on file in the office of the _ITITLE OF JURISDICTION'S KEEPER OF RE-
CORDS] of _[NAME OF JURISDICTION] , being marked and designated as the International Wildland-Urban Interface Code, 2003 edi-
tion, including Appendix Chapters _[FILL IN THE APPENDIX CHAPTERS BEING ADOPTED ], as published by the International Code
Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Urban- Wildland Interface Code of the [JURISDICTION] , in the State of [STATE NAME] _for reg-
ulating and governing the mitigation of hazard to life and property from the intrusion of fire from wildland exposures, fire from adjacent
structures and prevention of structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels as herein provided; providing for the issuance of permits and
collection of fees therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Urban- Wildland Interface
Code on file in the office of the [JURISDICTION] are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this ordi-
nance, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in Section 2 of this ordinance.
Section 2. The following sections are hereby revised:

Section 101.1. Insert: [NAME OF JURISDICTION]
Section3. That OrdinanceNo.___ of [JURISDICTION] entitled _[FILLIN HERE THE COMPLETE TITLE OF THE ORDINANCE OR OR-
DINANCES IN EFFECT AT THE PRESENT TIME SO THAT THEY WILL BE REPEALED BY DEFINITE MENTION] and all other ordinances or
parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
Section 4. That if any section, subsection, sentence, clause or phrase of this ordinance is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such
decision shall not affect the validity of the remaining portions of this ordinance. The [GOVERNING BODY] hereby declares that it would
have passed this ordinance, and each section, subsection, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more sections, sub-
sections, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared unconstitutional.
Section 5. That nothing in this ordinance or in the Wildland-Urban Interface Code hereby adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or
proceeding impending in any court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of action acquired or existing, under
any act or ordinance hereby repealed as cited in Section 2 of this ordinance; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be
lost, impaired or affected by this ordinance.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE Vv

Section 6. That the [JURISDICTION'S KEEPER OF RECORDS] is hereby ordered and directed to cause this ordinance to be published.
(An additional provision may be required to direct the number of times the ordinance is to be published and to specify that it is to be in a
newspaper in general circulation. Posting may also be required.)

Section 7. That this ordinance and the rules, regulations, provisions, requirements, orders and matters established and adopted hereby
shall take effect and be in full force and effect _[TIME PERIOD] from and after the date of its final passage and adoption.

Section 8. Specific boundaries of natural or man-made features of wildland-urban interface areas shall be as shown on the wildland area
interface map. The legal description of such areas is as described as follows: [INSERT LEGAL DESCRIPTION]

vi 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

CHAPTER 1 ADMINISTRATION...........-.--1 CHAPTER 6 FIRE-PROTECTION
Section REQUIREMENTS ........-+--+++- 19
101 General... 0... cece c eee eee eee renee l Section
103. Compliance Alternatives...............00502042 603 Defensible Space... ......-+ +--+ 1 eeeeeeees05 19
104. Appeals... 0... ec e eee ee eee 2 604 — Maintenance of Defensible Space... .....-.--.. 20
105 Permits . 0.2... eee ee eee ee 2 605 Spark Arresters ..... 10+. 001+ sees sree sess 20
106 Plans and Specifications ..............000000003 606 Liquefied Petroleum Gas Installations ..........20
107 Inspection and Enforcement.................+.4 607 Storage of Firewood and
; ; Combustible Materials ............00050+++- 20
108 Certificate of Completion................2.24-5
APPENDIX A GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.....21
CHAPTER 2 DEFINITIONS ........--+¢++e000+7 Section
Section A101 General ........0.0000ceeeeeeeeeeeeee eens e 21
201 General... 0.0.0. e eee eens etter neers T A102 Vegetation Control ......... 0.000. 00 e eee eee 21
202 Definitions... +++. 0sseeeeeeeeeer seers eT A103 Access Restrictions............0-. 0000s ee eee 22
A104 Ignition Source Control. .........6.0 006+ e 42 22
CHAPTER3 WILDLAND-URBAN
Section A106 Dumping..........00. 0000 cece eee eee eee 23
301 Wildland-Urban Interface Area Designations. ..... 9 A107 Protection of Pumps and Water
Storage Facilities... 0.0.0... 0.60 c eee eee 23
CHAPTER 4 WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE A108 Land Use Limitations .................00204.24
AREA REQUIREMENTS.........11
Secti APPENDIX B VEGETATION
a" MANAGEMENT PLAN.........+ +25
401 General... 0... eee ee eee eee ee ee
402 Applicability. ...........20.c0-ceeeeeec0e.. 11 APPENDIX C FIRE HAZARD
403 Access Tl SEVERITY FORM...........-+++27
404 Water Supply... -.- + +--+ 00s eeeeee eee eeee 2 INDEX... ee eee ee eee cece e eee eeeeeereeeene 2D
405 Fire Protection Plan..............--+ 000000. 13
CHAPTER 5 SPECIAL BUILDING CON-
STRUCTION REGULATIONS ....15
Section
501 General ........ 0.0000 e ee ee eee eee ee IS
502 Fire Hazard Severity............0.02-.00000215
503 —Ignition-resistant Construction................15
504 Class 1 Ignition-resistant Construction.......... 15
505 Class 2 Ignition-resistant Construction.......... 16
506 Class 3 Ignition-resistant Construction.......... 17
507. Replacement or Repair of Roof Coverings....... 18
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE vii

viii 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

CHAPTER 1
SECTION 101 unsafe or overloaded; will not provide adequate access in com-
GENERAL pliance with the provisions of this code or will obstruct existing
101.1 Scope. The provisions of this code shall apply to the exits or access; will create a fire hazard; will reduce required
construction, alteration, movement, repair, maintenance and fire resistance or will otherwise create conditions dangerous to
use of any building, structure or premises within the urban- human life.
wildland interface areas in this jurisdiction. 101.5 Maintenance. All buildings, structures, landscape ma-
Buildings or conditions in existence at the time of the adop- _ terials, vegetation, defensible space or other devices or safe-
tion of this code are allowed to have their use or occupancy con- guards required by this code shall be maintained in
tinued, if such condition, use or occupancy was legal atthe time conformance to the code edition under which installed. The
of the adoption of this code, provided such continued use does owner or the owner’s designated agent shall be r esponsible for
not constitute a distinct danger to life or property. i maintenance of buildings, structures, landscape materials
Buildings or structures moved into or within the jurisdiction ~—=—
shall comply with the provisions of this code for new buildings
or structures. SECTION 102
101.2 Objective. The objective of this code is to establish AUTHORITY OF THE CODE OFFICIAL
minimum regulations consistent with nationally recognized 102.1 Powers and duties of the code official. The code offi-
good practice for the safeguarding of life and property. Regula- . li hereb nonaedte cinac denf . his cod
tions in this code are intended to mitigate the risk to life and ies ere on ee —— or 18 COCE, OF
structures from intrusion of fire from wildland fire exposures desienaied sections pcs and all ordinances of the jurisdic-
and fire exposures from adjacent structures and to mitigate tion pertaining to designated wildland-urban interface areas.
structure fires from sprea ey to wildland fuels For such purposes, the code official shall have the powers of a
P 8 . law enforcement officer.
The development and use of property in wildland-urban in- F ;
terface areas is a potential threat to life and property from fire ee Interpretations, rules and regulations. a — oF
and resulting erosion, Safeguards to prevent the occurrence of ficial shall have the power to render interpretations of this code
fires and to provide adequate fire-protection facilities to control anate aoe ang pais mules and supplemental Peg anens 2
the spread of fire in wildland-urban interface areas shall be in clarify the application of its provisions. Such interpretations,
accortlanGexainninis Code rules and regulations shall be in conformance to the intent and
+ de sh ; , A J purpose of this code.
his code shall supplement the jurisdiction’s building an . .
fire codes, if such codes have been adopted, to provide for spe- i copy of such rules and Mee cae filed ae the
cial regulations to mitigate the fire- and life-safety hazards of clerk of the jurisdiction and shall be in effect imme tately
eralneurbant ntestaceiareas thereafter. Additional copies shall be available for distribution
‘ to the public.
101.3 Retroactivity. The provisions of the code shall apply P sae . _
to conditions arising after the adoption thereof, conditions not 102.3 Liability of the code official. The code official
legally in existence at the adoption of this code, to conditions charged with the enforcement of this code, acting in good faith
which, in the opinion of the code official, constitute a distinct and without malice in the discharge of the duties required by
hazard to life or property. this code or other pertinent law or ordinance, shall not thereby
101.4 Additi , . dit ; ; be rendered personally liable for damages that may accrue to
‘ itions or alterations. Additions or alterations persons or property as a result of an act or by reason of an act or
may be made to any building or structure without requiring the omission in the discharge of such duties. A suit brought against
existing ee 7 semen ap with all 7 the require- the code official or employee because of such act or omission
— ) h IS Code, Ain ed t ; 7 ition or alteration con- performed by the code official or employee in the enforcement
orms to that required for a new building or structure. of any provision of such codes or other pertinent laws or ordi-
Exception: Provisions of this code that specifically apply to nances implemented through the enforcement of this code or
existing conditions are retroactive. See Section 601.1 and enforced by the code enforcement agency shall be defended by
Appendix A. this jurisdiction until final termination of such proceedings,
Additions or alterations shall not be made to an existing me any judgment resulting therefrom shall be assumed by this
building or structure that will cause the existing building or jurieaislions tecons EorOneeHng at agency or its parent juris-
structure to be in violation of any of the provisions of this code eee a shal net Be — as assuming any pee 2) oubiane f
nor shall such additions or alterations cause the existing build- ae eae author ves y this code or any permits or certif-
ing or structure to become unsafe. An unsafe condition shall be icates Issued uncer [his Code.
deemed to have been created if an addition or alteration will 102.4 Other agencies. When requested to do so by the code
cause the existing building or structure to become structurally official, other officials of this jurisdiction shall assist and coop-
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 1

ADMINISTRATION
erate with the code official in the discharge of the duties re- SECTION 104
quired by this code. APPEALS
104.1 General. To determine the suitability of alternative
materials and methods and to provide for reasonable interpreta-
tions of the provisions of this code, there shall be and hereby is
SECTION 103 created a board of appeals consisting of five members who are
COMPLIANCE ALTERNATIVES qualified by experience and training to pass judgment on perti-
nent matters. The code official, building official and fire chief
103.1 Practical difficulties. When there are practical diffi- shall be ex officio members, and the code official shall act as
culties involved in carrying out the provisions of this code, the secretary of the board. The board of appeals shall be appointed
code official is authorized to grant modifications for individual by the legislative body and shall hold office at their discretion.
cases on application in writing by the owner or a duly autho- —_— The board shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for con-
rized representative. The code official shall first find that a spe- ducting its investigations and shall render decisions and find-
cial individual reason makes enforcement of the strict letter of ings in writing to the code official, with a duplicate copy to the
this code impractical, the modification is in conformance to the applicant.
intent and Purpose oS this oe and the modification does not 104.2 Limitations of authority. The board of appeals shall
lessen any fire protection requirements or any degree of struc- h thority relative to interpretation of the administra-
tural integrity. The details of any action granting modifications ———— : Fe © 4 wn ao - h hori
shall be recorded and entered into the files of the code enforce- tive provisions Of this cote and sha HOmaye auihonty 12
waive requirements of this code.
ment agency.
If the code official determines that difficult terrain, danger of SECTION 105
erosion or other unusual circumstances make strict compliance
with the vegetation control provisions of the code detrimental PERMITS
to safety or impractical, enforcement thereof may be sus- 105.1 General. When not otherwise provided in the require-
pended, provided that reasonable alternative measures are ments of the building or fire code, permits are required in ac-
taken. cordance with Section 105.
. . : wae 105.2 Permits required. Unless otherwise exempted, no
103.2 Technical assistance. To determine the acceptability building or structure regulated by this code shall be erected,
of technologies, processes, products, facilities, materials and constructed, altered, repaired, moved, removed, converted or
basa attending the design, onan oruse ofa building eee demolished unless a separate permit for each building or struc-
mises subject to the inspection of the code official, the code of- ture has first been obtained from the code official.
ficial is authorized to require the owner or the person in ; ;
possession or control of the building or premises to provide, When required by the code official, a permit shall be ob-
without charge to the jurisdiction, a technical opinion and re- _—‘tained for the following activities, operations, practices or
port. The opinion and report shall be prepared by a qualified functions within an wildland-urban interface area:
engineer, specialist, laboratory or fire safety specialty organi- 1. Automobile wrecking yard;
zation acceptable to the code official and the owner and shall 2. Candles and open flames in assembly areas;
analyze the fire safety of the design, operation or use of the . .
building or premises, the facilities and appurtenances situated 3. Exp esis or blasting agents,
thereon and fuel management for purposes of establishing fire 4. Fireworks;
hazard severity to recommend necessary changes. 5. Flammable or combustible liquids,
. . . 6. Hazardous materials,
103.3 Alternative materials or methods. The code official, 7. Liquefied petrol .
in concurrence with approval from the building official and fire » Laquelted petroleum Bases;
chief, is authorized to approve alternative materials or meth- 8. Lumberyards;
ods, provided that the code official finds that the proposed de- 9. Motor vehicle fuel-dispensing stations;
sign, use or operation satisfactorily complies with the intent of 10. Open burning;
this code and that the alternative is, for the purpose intended, at 11. Pyrotechnical special effects material;
least equivalent to the level of quality, strength, effectiveness, . ;
fire resistance, durability and safety prescribed by this code. i Tens canopies and temporary membrane structures;
Approvals under the authority herein contained shall be subject 13. Tire storage;
to the approval of the building official whenever the alternate 14. Welding and cutting operations; or
material or method involves matters regulated by the Jnterna- 15, Other activities as determined by the code official.
tional Building Code. 105.3 Work exempt from permit. Unless otherwise pro-
The code official shall require that sufficient evidence or vided in the requirements ans par ding or fire code, a permit
proof be submitted to substantiate any claims that may be made shall not be required for the following:
regarding its use. The details of any action granting approval of 1. One-story detached accessory buildings used as tool and
an alternate shall be recorded and entered in the files of the storage sheds, playhouses and similar uses, provided the
code enforcement agency. floor area does notexceed 120 square feet (11.15 m’) and
2 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

ADMINISTRATION
the structure is located more than 50 feet (15 240 mm) not be construed to be a permit for, or an approval of, any
from the nearest adjacent structure. violation of any of the provisions of this code or of any other or-

2. Fences not over 6 feet (1829 mm) high. dinance of the jurisdiction. Permits presuming to give authority
E tion f th it : ts of this code shall to violate or conceal the provisions of this code or other ordi-
eee eee eke pees i eda nances of the jurisdiction shall not be valid.
not be deemed to grant authorization for any work to be done in . _ ;
any manner in violation of the provisions of this code or any _—«'105.8 Expiration. Every permit issued by the code official
other laws or ordinances of this jurisdiction. under the provisions of this code shall expire by limitation and
Th de official is authorized ‘oul diti f become null and void if the building, use or work authorized by
_ - zhy t “ ; a onlZe ae hte ve _ itions ' such permit is not commenced within 180 days from the date of
Ce ee eee a ay ae pubic sa Roe such permit, or if the building, use or work authorized by such
be at risk, as determined by the code official. permit is suspended or abandoned at any time after the work is
105.4 Permit application. To obtain a permit, the applicant commenced for a period of 180 days.
vm mst ie ee therefor in wang ona form fur- Any permittee holding an unexpired permit may apply for
nished Pysiigcoc 7 orcetpentaeene Oma EU DOsemEvE an extension of the time within which work may commence un-
such application shall: der that permit when the permittee is unable to commence work
1. Identify and describe the work, activity, operation, prac- within the time required by this section for good and satisfac-
tice or function to be covered by the permit for which ap- tory reasons. The code official may extend the time for action
plication is made. by the permittee for a period not exceeding 180 days on written
2. Describe the land on which the proposed work, activity, quest by the permittee showing that circumstances beyond
operation, practice or function is to be done by legal de- the control of the permittee have prevented action from being
scription, street address or similar description that will taken. No permit shall be extended more than once.
readily identify and definitely locate the proposed build- 105.9 Retention of permits. Permits shall at all times be kept
ing, work, activity, operation, practice or function. on the premises designated therein and shall at all times be sub-
3. Indicate the use or occupancy for which the proposed ject to inspection by the code official or other authorized repre-
work, activity, operation, practice or function is in- sentative.
tended. 105.10 Revocation of permits. Permits issued under this
4. Be accompanied by plans, diagrams, computation and code may be suspended or revoked when it is determined by the
specifications and other data as required in Section 106 code official that:
etithis cocks : _. 1. It is used by a person other than the person to whom the
5. State the valuation of any new building or structure or permit was issued.
any qoditions Remodeling) o6 Gio? te aiuckishins 2. Itis used for a location other than that for which the per-
building. mit was issued
6. Be signed by the applicant or the applicant's authorized 3. Any of the conditions or limitations set forth in the per-
agent. ; ; ; mit have been violated.
7. Give such other data and information as may be required 4. The permittee fails, refuses or neglects to comply with
by the code official. any order or notice duly served on him under the provi-
105.5 Permit approval. Before a permit is issued, the code sions of this code within the time provided therein.
official, or an authorized representative, shall review and ap- 5. There has been any false statement or misrepresentation
prove all permitted uses, occupancies or structures. Where as to material fact in the application or plans on which
laws or regulations are enforceable by other agencies or depart- the permit or application was made.
ments, a joint approval shall be obtained from all agencies or woes . . ea
di 6. When the permit is issued in error or in violation of any
epartments concemed. ‘ ; ;
other ordinance, regulations or provisions of this code.
105.6 Permit issuance. The application, plans, specifica- Th a. . Pe
. ; : e code official is allowed to, in writing, suspend or revoke
tions and other data filed by an applicant for a permit shall be ve . :
: : : a permit issued under the provisions of this code whenever the
reviewed by the code official. If the code official finds that the vas : Smile . .
f : a : permit is issued in error or on the basis of incorrect information
work described in an application for a permit and the plan, . eS : .
; : : supplied, or in violation of any ordinance or regulation or any
specifications and other data filed therewith conform to the re- ar thewrevisionS"OF this code
quirements of this code, the code official is allowed to issue a P ,
permit to the applicant.
When the code official issues the permit, the code official SECTION 106
shall endorse in writing or stamp the plans and specifications PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS
ea sven approved sat ue specifications oa 7 7 106.1 General. Plans, engineering calculations, diagrams
sd aoe —_ ; Fi or — rare on sities) oto © and other data shall be submitted in at least two sets with each
eee a ea ppl elena sriah DEIsene application for a permit. When such plans are not prepared by
in accordance with the approved plans. an architect or engineer, the code official may require the appli-
105.7 Validity of permit. The issuance or granting of a per- cant submitting such plans or other data to demonstrate that
mit or approval of plans, specifications and computations shall state law does not require that the plans be prepared by a li-
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 3

ADMINISTRATION
censed architect or engineer. The code official may require remain accessible and exposed for inspection purposes until
plans, computations and specifications to be prepared and de- approved by the code official.
signed by an architect or engineer licensed by the state to prac- It shall be the duty of the permit applicant to cause the
tice as such even if not required by state law. work to remain accessible and exposed for inspection pur-
Exception: Submission of plans, calculations, construction poses. Neither the code official nor the jurisdiction shall be
inspection requirements and other data, if itis found that the liable for expense entailed in the removal or replacement of
nature of the work applied for is such that reviewing of plans any material required to allow inspection.
is not necessary to obtain compliance with this code. Approval as a result of an inspection shall not be con-
106.2 Information on plans and specifications. Plans and strued to be an approval of a violation of the provisions of
specifications shall be drawn to scale upon substantial paper or this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdiction. Inspec-
cloth and shall be of sufficient clarity to indicate the location, tions presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the
nature and extent of the work proposed, and show in detail that provisions of this code or of other ordinances of the jurisdic-
it will conform to the provisions of this code and all relevant tion shall not be valid.
laws, ordinances, rules and regulations. A survey of the lot may be required by the code official to
106.3 Site plan. In addition to the requirements for plans in verify that the mitigation features are provided and the
the International Building Code, site plans shall include topog- building or structure is located in accordance with the ap-
raphy, width and percent of grade of access roads, landscape proved plans.
and vegetation details, locations of structures or building enve- 107.1.2 Authority to inspect. The code official shall in-
lopes, existing or proposed overhead utilities, occupancy clas- spect, as often as necessary, buildings and premises, includ-
sification of buildings, types of ignition-resistant construction ing such other hazards or appliances designated by the code
of buildings, structures and their appendages, roof classifica- official for the purpose of ascertaining and causing to be
tion of buildings, and site water supply systems. corrected any conditions that could reasonably be expected
106.4 Vegetation management plans. When utilized by the to cause fire or contribute to its spread, or any violation of
permit applicant pursuant to Section 502, vegetation manage- the purpose of this code and of any other law or standard af-
ment plans shall be prepared and shall be submitted to the code fecting fire safety.
official for review and approval as part of the plans required for 107.1.3 Reinspections. To determine compliance with
a permit. See Appendix B. this code, the code official may cause a structure to be rein-
106.5 Fire protection plan. When required by the code offi- spect. poreeimey ee assessed for each paapec lige OF reine
cial pursuant to Section 405, a fire protection plan shall be pre- leven when such portion of work 10s webich insge@elion 1s
pared and shall be submitted to the code official for review and called is not complete or when corrections called for are not
approved as a part of the plans required for a permit. mais
106.6 Other data and substantiation. When required by the ; Stes es aes vail i rca when ae approved
code official, the plans and specifications shall include classifi- P ies = a : on f e - eid weit i"
cation of fuel loading, fuel model light, medium or heavy, and oar ; ue a © 7 hela he iain ea
substantiating data to verify classification of fire-resistive veg- or for deviating from plans requiring the approva’ 0 the
etation. code official.
ta .. . ; To obtain a reinspection, the applicant shall pay the rein-
106.7 Vicinity plan. In addition to the ue for ae spection fee as set forth in the fee schedule adopted by the
plans, plans shall include details regarding ee ny eaehin jurisdiction. When reinspection fees have been assessed, no
SO Tee! a mm) of property lines, including other struc- additional inspection of the work will be performed until the
ieee vegetation, fuel breaks, water supply systems and required fees have been paid.
. 107.2 Enforcement.
106.8 Retention of plans. One set of approved plans, specifi- to. . .
cations and computations shall be retained by the code official 107.2.1 Authorization to issue corrective orders and no-
for a period of not less than 90 days from date of completion of tices. When the code official finds any building or premises
the work covered therein; and one set of approved plans and that are in violation of this code, the code official is autho-
specifications shall be returned to the applicant, and said set rized to issue corrective orders and notices.
shall be kept on the site of the building, use or work at all times 107.2.2 Service of orders and notices. Orders and no-
during which the work authorized thereby is in progress. tices authorized or required by this code shall be given or
served on the owner, operator, occupant or other person re-
sponsible for the condition or violation either by verbal noti-
SECTION 107 fication, personal service, or delivering the same to, and
INSPECTION AND ENFORCEMENT leaving it with, a person of suitable age and discretion on the
107.1 Inspection premises; or, if no such person is found on the premises, by
. . affixing a copy thereof in a conspicuous place on the door to
107.1.1 General. All construction or work for which a the entrance of said premises and by mailing a copy thereof
permit is required by this code shall be subject to inspection to such person by registered or certified mail to the person’s
by the code official and all such construction or work shail Jast known address.
4 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

ADMINISTRATION
Orders or notices that are given verbally shall be con- SECTION 108
firmed by service in writing as herein provided. CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION
107.3 Right of entry. Whenever necessary to make an in- No building, structure or premises shall be used or occupied,
spection to enforce any of the provisions of this code, or when- and no change in the existing occupancy classification of a
ever the code official has reasonable cause to believe that there building, structure, premise or portion thereof shall be made
exists in any building or on any premises any condition that until the code official has issued a certificate of completion
makes such building or premises unsafe, the code official is au- therefor as provided herein. The certificate of occupancy shall
thorized to enter such building or premises at all reasonable not be issued until the certificate of completion indicating that
times to inspect the same or to perform any duty authorized by the project is in compliance with this code has been issued by
this code, provided that if such building or premises is occu- the code official.
pied, the code official shall first present proper credentials and Issuance of a certificate of occupancy shall not be construed
request entry; and if such building or premises is unoccupied, as an approval of a violation of the provisions of this code or of
the code official shall first make a reasonable effort to locate the other pertinent laws and ordinances of the jurisdiction. Certifi-
owner or other persons having charge or control of the building cates presuming to give authority to violate or cancel the provi-
or premises and request entry. sions of this code or other laws or ordinances of the jurisdiction
If such entry is refused, the code official shall have recourse shalifygabetveliae
to every remedy provided by law to secure entry. Owners, oc-
cupants or any other persons having charge, care or control of
any building or premises, shall, after proper request is made as
herein provided, promptly permit entry therein by the code of-
ficial for the purpose of inspection and examination pursuant to
this code.
107.4 Compliance with orders and notices.
107.4.1 General compliance. Orders and notices issued
or served as provided by this code shall be complied with by
the owner, operator, occupant or other person responsible
for the condition or violation to which the corrective order
or notice pertains.
If the building or premises is not occupied, such correc-
tive orders or notices shall be complied with by the owner.
107.4.2 Compliance with tags. A building or premises
shall not be used when in violation of this code as noted ona
tag affixed in accordance with Section 107.4.1.
107.4.3 Removal and destruction of signs and tags. A
sign or tag posted or affixed by the code official shall not be
mutilated, destroyed or removed without authorization by
the code official.
107.4.4 Citations. Persons operating or maintaining an
occupancy, premises or vehicle subject to this code who al-
low a hazard to exist or fail to take immediate action to abate
a hazard on such occupancy, premises or vehicle when or-
dered or notified to do so by the code official shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor.
107.4.5 Unsafe conditions. Buildings, structures or pre-
mises that constitute a fire hazard or are otherwise danger-
ous to human life, or which in relation to existing use
constitute a hazard to safety or health or public welfare, by
reason of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation, obsoles-
cence, fire hazard, disaster damage or abandonment as spec-
ified in this code or any other ordinance, are unsafe
conditions. Unsafe buildings or structures shall not be used.
Unsafe buildings are hereby declared to be public nuisances
and shall be abated by repair, rehabilitation, demolition or
removal, pursuant to applicable state and local laws and
codes.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 5

6 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

CHAPTER 2
SECTION 201 DEFENSIBLE SPACE. An area either natural or man-made,
GENERAL where material capable of allowing a fire to spread unchecked
201.1 Scope. Unless otherwise expressly stated, the follow- has been treated, cleared Nal modified to slow the rate "7 inten-
ing words and terms shall, for the purposes of this code, have sity of an advancing wildfire and to create an area for fire sup-
the meanings shown in this chapter. pression operations to occur.
201.2 Interchangeability. Words stated in the present tense DRIVEWAY. A vehicular ingress and egress route that serves
include the future; words stated in the masculine gender in- no more than two buildings or structures, not including eit
clude the feminine and neuter, and the singular number in- sory structures, or more than five dwelling units.
cludes the plural and the plural the singular. FIRE AREA. The floor area, in square feet (square meters),
201.3 Terms defined in other codes. Where terms are not __USed to determine the adequate water supply.
defined in this code and are defined in other /nternational FIRE CHIEF. The chief officer or the chief officer’s autho-
Codes, such terms shall have the meanings ascribedtothemas _rized representative of the fire department serving the jurisdic-
in those codes. tion.
201.4 Terms not defined. Where terms are not defined FIRE PROTECTION PLAN. A document prepared for a
through the methods authorized by this section, such terms _ specific project or development proposed for the wildland-ur-
shall have their ordinarily accepted meanings such as the con- ban interface area. It describes ways to minimize and mitigate
text implies. the fire problems created by the project or development, with
the purpose of reducing impact on the community’s fire protec-
tion delivery system.
SNORE FIRE WEATHER. Weather conditions favorable to the igni-
DEFINITIONS tion and rapid spread of fire. In wildfires, this generally in-
ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. A building or structure used to cludes high temperatures combined with strong winds and low
shelter or support any material, equipment, chattel or occu- humidity.
pancyqothes than anabiele maine FIRE-RESISTANCE-RATED CONSTRUCTION. The use
APPROVED. Approval by the code official as the result of re- of materials and systems in the design and construction of a
view, investigation or tests conducted by the code official or by building or structure to safeguard against the spread of fire
reason of accepted principles or tests by national authorities, or within a building or structure and the spread of fire to or from
technical or scientific organizations. buildings or structures to the wildland-urban interface area.
BRUSH, SHORT. Low-growing species that reach heights of 1 FLAME SPREAD RATING. As used herein refers to rating
to 3 feet. Sagebrush, snowberry and rabbitbrush are some variet- obtained according to tests conducted as specified by a nation-
ies. ally recognized standard.
BRUSH, TALL. Arbor-like varieties of brush species and/or FUEL BREAK. An area, strategically located for fighting an-
short varieties of broad-leaf trees that grow in compact groups or ticipated fires, where the native vegetation has been perma-
clumps. These groups or clumps reach heights of 4 to 20 feet. In nently modified or replaced so that fires burning into it can be
Utah, this includes primary varieties of oak, maples, chokecherry, more easily controlled. Fuel breaks divide fire-prone areas into
serviceberry and mahogany, but may also include other species. smaller areas for easier fire control and to provide access for
BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or fire fighting.
sheltering any use or occupancy. FUEL, HEAVY. Vegetation consisting of round wood 3 inches
BUILDING OFFICIAL. The officer or other designated au- (76 mn) oF reer in Gameter {he amount Giniue! (wegen)
thority charged with the administration and enforcement of the woMie ts HES ee
International Building Code, or the building official’s duly au- FUEL, LIGHT. Vegetation consisting of herbaceous and round
thorized representative. wood less than '/, inch (6.4 mm) in diameter. The amount of fuel
1 I
CERTIFICATE OF COMPLETION. Written documenta. _‘Vee¢tation) would be '/, ton to 2 tons per acre.
tion that the project or work for which a permit was issued has FUEL, MEDIUM. Vegetation consisting of round wood '/, to 3
been completed in conformance with requirements of this inches (6.4mm to 76 mm) in diameter. The amount of fuel (vegeta-
code. tion) would be 2 to 6 tons per acre.
CODE OFFICIAL. The official designated by the jurisdiction FUEL MODIFICATION. A method of modifying fuel load
to interpret and enforce this code, or the code official’s autho- by reducing the amount of nonfire-resistive vegetation or alter-
rized representative. ing the type of vegetation to reduce the fuel load.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 7

DEFINITIONS
FUEL MOSAIC. A fuel modification system that provides for 4. Slate shingles.
the creation of islands and irregular boundaries to reduce the 5. Clay or concrete roofing tile.
visual and ecological impact of fuel modification. 6. Approved roof covering of noncombustible material.
FUEL-LOADING. The oven-dry weight of fuels in a given SLOPE. The variation of terrain from the horizontal; the num-
area, usually expressed in pounds per acre (1b/a) (kg/ha). Fuel ber of feet (meters) rise or fall per 100 feet (30 480 mm) mea-
loading may be referenced to fuel size or timelag categories, sured horizontally, expressed as a percentage.
include surface fuel ] fuels.
abel Tay inetd sume et eee STRUCTURE. That which is built or constructed, an edifice
GREEN BELT. A fuel break designated for a use other than or building of any kind, or any piece of work artificially built up
fire protection. or composed of parts joined together in some manner.
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. As defined in the Interna- TREE CROWN. The primary and secondary branches grow-
tional Fire Code. ing out from the main stem, together with twigs and foliage.
HEAVY TIMBER CONSTRUCTION. As described in the UNENCLOSED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE. An acces-
International Building Code. sory structure without a complete exterior wall system enclos-
INSURANCE SERVICES OFFICE (ISO). An agency that _ing the area under roof or floor above.
recommends fire insurance rates based on a grading schedule WILDFIRE. An uncontrolled fire spreading through vegeta-
that incorporates evaluation of fire fighting resources and tive fuels, exposing and possibly consuming structures.
eapabilitics: WILDLAND. An area in which development is essentially
LEGISLATIVE BODY. The governing body of the political ju- nonexistent, except for roads, railroads, power lines and similar
risdiction administering this code. facilities.
LOG WALL CONSTRUCTION. A type of construction in WILDLAND URBAN INTERFACE. The line, area or zone
which exterior walls are constructed of solid wood members where structures or other human development (including critical
and where the smallest horizontal dimension of each solid infrastructure that if destroyed would result in hardship to com-
wood member is at least 6 inches (152 mm). munities) meet or intermingle with undeveloped wildland or veg-
MULTILAYERED GLAZED PANELS. Window or door tive fuel.
assemblies that consist of two or more independently glazed
panels installed parallel to each other, having a sealed air gap in
between, within a frame designed to fill completely the win-
dow or door opening in which the assembly is intended to be
installed.
NONCOMBUSTIBLE. As applied to building construction
material means a material that, in the form in which itis used, is
either one of the following:
1. Material of which no part will ignite and burn when sub-
jected to fire. Any material conforming to ASTM E 136
shall be considered noncombustible within the meaning
of this section.
2. Material having a structural base of noncombustible ma-
terial as defined in Item 1 above, with a surfacing mate-
rial not over '/, inch (3.2 mm) thick, which has a flame-
spread rating of 50 or less. Flame-spread rating as used
herein refers to rating obtained according to tests con-
ducted as specified in ASTM E 84.
“Noncombustible” does not apply to surface finish materi-
als. Material required to be noncombustible for reduced clear-
ances to flues, heating appliances or other sources of high
temperature shall refer to material conforming to Item 1. No
material shall be classed as noncombustible that is subject to
increase in combustibility or flame-spread rating, beyond the
limits herein established, through the effects of age, moisture
or other atmospheric condition.
NONCOMBUSTIBLE ROOF COVERING. One of the fol-
lowing:
1. Cement shingles or sheets.
2. Exposed concrete slab roof.
3. Ferrous or copper shingles or sheets.
8 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

CHAPTER 3
SECTION 301
WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE
AREA DESIGNATIONS
301.1 Declaration. The legislative body shall declare the
wildland-urban interface areas within the jurisdiction. The
urban-wildland interface areas shall be based on the maps cre-
ated in accordance with Section 301.
301.2 Mapping. In cooperation, the code official and the Divi-
sion of Forestry, Fire and State Lands (FFSL) wildfire repre-
sentative (per participating agreement between county and
FFSL) will create or review Wildland-Urban Interface Area
maps, to be recorded and filed with the clerk of the jurisdiction.
These areas shall become effective immediately thereafter.
301.3 Review of wildland-urban interface areas. The code
official and the FFSL wildfire representative shall reevaluate
and recommend modification to the wildland-urban interface
areas in accordance with Section 301.1 on a three-year basis or
more frequently as deemed necessary by the legislative body.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 9

10 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

CHAPTER 4
SECTION 401 SECTION 403
GENERAL ACCESS

401.1 Scope. Wildland-urban interface areas shall be pro- 403.1 Restricted access. Where emergency vehicle access is

vided with emergency vehicle access and water supply in ac- restricted because of secured access roads or driveways or

cordance with this chapter. where immediate access is necessary for life-saving or fire-
oo. . ; ; ; fighting purposes, the code official is authorized to require a

401.2 Objective. The objective of this chapter is to establish —_ key box to be installed in an accessible location. The key box

the minimum requirements for emergency vehicle access and shall be of a type approved by the code official and shall con-

water supply for buildings and structures located in the tain keys to gain necessary access as required by the code offi-
wildland-urban interface areas. cial.

401.3 General safety precautions. General safety precau- 403.2 Driveways. Driveways shall be provided when any

tions shall be in accordance with this chapter. See also Appen- portion of an exterior wall of the first story of a building is lo-

dix A. cated more than 150 feet (45 720 mm) from a fire apparatus ac-

cess road. Driveways shall provide a minimum unobstructed
width of 12 feet (3658 mm) and a minimum unobstructed
height of 13 feet 6 inches (4115 mm). Driveways in excess of
ee 402 150 fect (45 720 mm) in length shall be provided with turn-
APPLICABILITY arounds. Driveways in excess of 200 feet (60 960 mm) in
402.1 Subdivisions. length and less than 20 feet (6096 mm) in width shall be pro-
vided with turnouts in addition to turnarounds.
402.1.1 Access. New subdivisions, as determined by this . ; ; :
jurisdiction, shall be provided with fire apparatus access A driveway shall not serve in excess of five dwelling units.
roads in accordance with the International Fire Code and Driveway turnarounds shall have inside turning radii of not
access requirements in accordance with Section 403. less than 30 feet (9144 mm) and outside turning radii of not less
402.1.2 Water supply. New subdivisions as determined than 45 feet (13 716 mm). Driveways that connect with a road
by this jurisdiction shall be provided with water supply in. roads areal then one point may be considered as having a
accordance with Section 404. turnaroun if all changes of direction meet the radii require-
ments for driveway turnarounds.

402.2 Individual structures. Driveway turnouts shall be an all-weather road surface at
402.2.1 Access. Individual structures hereafter con- _ least 10 feet (3048 mm) wide and 30 feet (9144 mm) long.
structed or relocated into or within wildland-urban interface Driveway turnouts shall be located as required by the code offi-
areas shall be provided with fire apparatus access in accor- cial.
dane pe UnTeREOTA! aie one pam yeas Vehicle load limits shall be posted at both entrances to
cordance with Section 403.2. Marking of fire protection brid A d privat ds. Design loads f
equipment shall be provided in accordance with Section - _ Fall rs eet 7 d 3 a ° a _— oads for
403.5 and address markers shall be provided in accordance mages shall be established by tne code omnes
with Section 403.6. 403.3 Fire apparatus access road. When required, fire ap-

_ paratus access roads shall be all-weather roads with a mini-

402.2.2 Water supply. Individual structures hereafter ym width of 20 feet (6096 mm) and aclear height of 13 feet 6
constructed or relocated into or within wildland-urban in- _ inches (4115 mm); shall be designed to accommodate the loads
terface areas shall be provided with a conforming watersup- _and turning radii for fire apparatus; and have a gradient nego-
ply in accordance with Section 404. tiable by the specific fire apparatus normally used at that loca-
Exceptions: tion within the jurisdiction. Dead-end roads in excess of 150
feet (45 720 mm) in length shall be provided with turnarounds

1. Structures constructed to meet the requirements as approved by the code official. An all-weather road surface
for the class of ignition-resistant construction shall be any surface material acceptable to the code official that

specified in Table 503.1 for a nonconforming wa- would normally allow the passage of emergency service vehi-

ter supply. cles to protect structures and wildlands within the jurisdiction.
2. Buildings containing only private garages, car- 403.4 Marking of roads. Approved signs or other approved
ports, sheds and agricultural buildings with a notices shall be provided and maintained for access roads and

floor area of not more than 600 square feet (56 driveways to identify such roads and prohibit the obstruction

m). thereof or both.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 11

WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE AREA REQUIREMENTS

All road identification signs and supports shall be of ter level or flow shall not be rendered unusable because
noncombustible materials. Signs shall have minimum 4-inch- of freezing. This water source shall have an approved
high (102 mm) reflective letters with '/, inch (12.7 mm) stroke draft site with an approved hydrant. Adequate water flow
on a contrasting 6-inch-high (152 mm) sign. Road identifica- and rights for access to the water source shall be ensured
tion signage shall be mounted at a height of 7 feet (2134 mm) in a form acceptable to the code official.
sana road surface to the bottom of the = . 404.3 Draft sites. Approved draft sites shall be provided at
403.5 Marking of fire protection equipment. Fire protec- —_ aj natural water sources intended for use as fire protection for
tion equipment and fire hydrants shall be clearly identified in a compliance with this code. The design, construction, location,
manner approved by the code official to prevent obstruction. access and access maintenance of draft sites shall be approved
403.6 Address markers. All buildings shall have a perma- _ by the code official.
nently posted address, which shall be placed at each driveway Th int shall be eith hi-
entrance and be visible from both directions of travel along the ypu Be tides: Domus ia Seen ee
road. In all cases, the address shall be posted at the beginning of ae ona ae alongside a conforming access road or an ap-
construction and shall be maintained thereafter, and the ad- pooued CULE no longer than 150 feet (45 ae mm). Pumper
dress shall be visible and legible from the road on which the ad- access points anGIACeSSs avery sna ee designed ang cone
fitcscuis llocatcds structed in accordance with all codes and ordinances enforced

by this jurisdiction. Pumper access points shall not require the
Address signs along one-way roads shall be visible from pumper apparatus to obstruct a road or driveway.
both the intended direction of travel and the opposite direction.
. . . : 404.4 Hydrants. All hydrants shall be designed and con-

Where multiple addresses are required at a single driveway, ce 4 with nationally recopnized standards

they shall be mounted on a single post, and additional signs Ie as eae y & a
shall be posted at locations where driveways divide. The location and access shall be approved by the code official.

Where a roadway provides access solely to a single com- 404.5 Adequate water supply. Adequate water supply shall

mercial or industrial business, the address sign shall be placed be determined for purposes of initial attack and flame front
at the nearest road intersection providing access to that site. control by the local jurisdiction. NFPA 1142 may be used as a ref-
403.7 Grade. The gradient for fire apparatus access roads erence.
and driveways shall not exceed the maximum approved by the 404.6 Fire department. The water system required by this
code official. It will be up to the code official to ascertain the stan- code can only be considered conforming for purposes of deter-
dard based on local fire equipment grade not to exceed 12 percent. mining the level of ignition-resistant construction (see Table
503.1).
SECTION 404 404.7 Obstructions. Access to all water sources required by

WATER SUPPLY this code shall be unobstructed at all times. The code official
404.1 General. When provided in order to qualify as a con- shall not be deterred or nindend oon gaining porrediate wa
forming water supply for the purpose of Table 503.1, an ap- cess to water source equipment, fire protection equipment or
proved water source shall have an adequate water supply for hydrants.
the use of the fire protection service to protect buildings and 404.8 Identification. Water sources, draft sites, hydrants and
structures from exterior fire sources or to suppress structure _fjre protection equipment shall be clearly identified in a manner
fires within the wildland-urban interface area of the jurisdic- approved by the code official to identify location and to prevent
tion in accordance with this section. obstruction by parking and other obstructions.
404.2 Water sources. The point at which a water source is . : .
available for use shall be located not more than 1,000 feet (305 404.9 Testing and maintenance. Water SOUTCeS, draft aT
distance shall be measured along an unobstructed line of travel. official. Code official shall establish a periodic testing schedule.
Water sources shall comply with the following: Costs are to be covered by the water provider. All such equipment

1. Man-made water sources shall have a minimum usable installed under the provisions of this code shall be maintained
water volume as determined by the adequate water sup- in an operative condition at all times and shall be repaired or re-
ply needs in accordance with Section 404.5. This water placed where defective. Additions, repairs, alterations and ser-
source shall be equipped with an approved hydrant. The vicing of such fire protection equipment and resources shall be
water level of the water source shall be maintained by in accordance with approved standards. Mains and appurte-
rainfall, water pumped from a well, water hauled by a nances shall be installed in accordance with NFPA 24. Water tanks
tanker, or by seasonal high water of a stream or river. The for private fire protection shall be installed in accordance with
design, construction, location, water level maintenance, NFPA 22. The costs are to be covered by the water provider.
access, and access maintenance of man-made water eens
sources shall be approved by the code official. aOeiOa Reliability.

2. Natural water sources shall have a minimum annual wa- 404.10.1 Objective. The objective of this section is to in-
ter level or flow sufficient to meet the adequate water crease the reliability of water supplies by reducing the expo-
supply needs in accordance with Section 404.5. This wa- sure of vegetative fuels to electrically powered systems.

12 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE AREA REQUIREMENTS
404.10.2 Clearance of fuel. Defensible space shall be
provided around water tank structures, water supply pumps
and pump houses in accordance with Section 603.
404,.10.3 Standby power. Stationary water supply facili-
ties within the wildland-urban interface area dependent on
electrical power supplied by power grid to meet adequate wa-
ter supply demands shall provide functional standby power
systems in accordance with the ICC Electrical Code to en-
sure that an uninterrupted water supply is maintained. The
standby power source shall be capable of providing power
for a minimum of two hours.
Exceptions: When approved by the code official, a
standby power supply is not required where the primary
power service to the stationary water supply facility is un-
derground or there is an on-site generator.
SECTION 405
FIRE PROTECTION PLAN
405.1 Purpose. The plan is to provide a basis to determine overall
compliance with this code, for determination of Ignition Resistant
Construction (IRC) (see Table 503.1) and for determining the
need for alternative materials and methods.
405.2 General. When required by the code official, a fire pro-
tection plan shall be prepared and approved prior to the first
building permit issuance or subdivision approval.
405.3 Content. The plan shall be based upon a site-specific
wildfire risk assessment that includes considerations of loca-
tion, topography, aspect, flammable vegetation, climatic con-
ditions and fire history. The plan shall address water supply,
access, building ignition and fire-resistance factors, fire protec-
tion systems and equipment, defensible space and vegetation
management.
405.4 Cost. The cost of fire protection plan preparation and
review shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
405.5 Plan retention. The fire protection plan shall be re-
tained by the code official.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 13

14 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

CHAPTER 5
SECTION 501 interface areas shall be established in accordance with Appen-
GENERAL dix C.
501.1 Scope. Buildings and structures shall be constructed in The fire hazard severity is allowed to be reduced by imple-
accordance with the International Building Code and this code. menting a vegetation management plan in accordance with Ap-
7 endix B.
Exceptions: P
1. Accessory structures not exceeding 120 square feet
(11 m’) in floor area when located at least 50 feet (15 SECTION 503
240 mm) from buildings containing habitable spaces. IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
2. Agricultural buildings at least 50 feet (15 240 mm) —_—_503,1 General. Buildings and structures hereafter constructed,
from buildings containing habitable spaces. modified or relocated into or within wildland-urban interface
501.2 Objective. The objective of this chapter is to establish areas shall meet the construction requirements in accordance
minimum standards to locate, design and construct buildings with Table 503.1. Class 1, Class 2 or Class 3 ignition-resistant
and structures or portions thereof for the protection of life and construction shall be in accordance with Sections 504, 505 and
property, to resist damage from wildfires, and to mitigate build- 506, respectively.
ing and structure fires from spreading to wildland fuels. The
minimum standards set forth in this chapter vary with the criti-
cal fire weather, slope and fuel type to provide increased pro- SECTION 504
tection, above the requirements set forth in the International CLASS 1 IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
Building Code, from the various levels of hazards 504.1 General. Class 1 ignition-resistant construction shall be
in accordance with Section 504.
504.2 Roof covering. Roofs shall have a Class A roof covering
SECTION 502 :
or a Class A roof assembly. For roof coverings where the pro-
FIRE HAZARD SEVERITY : :
file allows a space between the roof covering and roof decking,
The fire hazard severity of building sites for all buildings here- the space at the eave ends shall be firestopped to preclude entry
after constructed, modified or relocated into wildland-urban of flames or embers.
TABLE 503.1
IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION*
[Moderate Hazard | HighHazard =| Extreme Hazard
SPACE® | Conforming’ | Nonconforming’ | Conforming’ | Nonconforming” | Conforming’ | Nonconforming’ |
. IR 1 IRI :
ee ee Ce
. IR 1
Conforming IR3 IR2 IR2 TR 1
N.C.
1.5xConforming | Not Required
a. Access shall be in accordance with Section 402.
b. Subdivisions shall have a conforming water supply in accordance with Section 402.1.
IR 1 =Ignition-resistant construction in accordance with Section 504.
IR 2 =Ignition-resistant construction in accordance with Section 505.
IR3 =Ignition-resistant construction in accordance with Section 506.
N.C. = Exterior walls shall have a fire-resistance rating of not Jess than I-hour and the exterior surfaces of such walls shall be noncombustible. Usage of log wall
construction is allowed.
c. Conformance based on Section 603.
d. Conformance based on Section 404.
e. A nonconforming water supply is any water system or source that does not comply with Section 404, including situations where there is no water supply for struc-
ture protection or fire suppression.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 15

SPECIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
504.3 Protection of eaves. Eaves and soffits shall be protected 504.11 Detached accessory structures. Detached accessory
on the exposed underside by materials approved for a mini- structures located less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from a build-
mum of I-hour fire-resistance-rated construction. Fascias are ing containing habitable space shall have exterior walls con-
required and must be protected on the backside by materials structed with materials approved for a minimum of 1-hour fire-
approved for a minimum of 1-hour fire-resistance-rated con- resistance-rated construction, heavy timber, log wall construc-
struction or 2-inch (51 mm) nominal dimension lumber. tion or constructed with approved noncombustible materials on
504.4 Gutters and downspouts. Gutters and downspouts the exterior side.
shall be constructed of noncombustible material. When the detached structure is located and constructed so
504.5 Exterior walls. Exterior walls of buildings or structures that the structure or any portion thereof projects over a de-
shall be constructed with materials approved for a minimum of scending slope surface greater than 10 percent, the area below
1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction on the exterior side or the structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to within 6
constructed with approved noncombustible materials. inches (152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construction
. ; . in accordance with Section 504.5 or underfloor protection in

Exception: Heavy timber or log wall construction. accordance with Section 504.6.

Such material shall extend from the top of the foundation to Exception: The enclosure may be omitted where the under-
the underside of the roof sheathing. side of all exposed floors and all exposed structural col-
504.6 Unenclosed underfloor protection. Buildings or struc- umns, beams and supporting walls are protected as required
tures shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to the ground for exterior 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction or
with exterior walls in accordance with Section 504.5. heavy-timber construction.

Exception: Complete enclosure may be omitted where the See Section 504.2 for roof requirements.

underside of all exposed floors and all exposed structural

columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as re-

quired for exterior 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction SECTION 505

or heavy timber construction. CLASS 2 IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
504.7 Appendages and projections. Unenclosed accessory 505.1 General. Class 2 ignition-resistant construction shall be
structures attached to buildings with habitable spaces and pro- in accordance with Section 505.
jections, such as decks, shall be a minimum of 1-hour fire-re- 505.2 Roof covering. Roofs shall have at least a Class A roof
sistance-rated construction, heavy timber construction or covering, Class B roof assembly or an approved
constructed of approved noncombustible materials. noncombustible roof covering. For roof coverings where the

When the attached structure is located and constructed so profile allows a space between the roof covering and roof deck-
that the structure or any portion thereof projects over a de- ing, the space at the eave ends shall be firestopped to preclude
scending slope surface greater than 10 percent, the area below entry of flames or embers.
the structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to within 505.3 Protection of eaves. Combustible eaves, fascias and sof-
6 inches (152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construc- fits shall be enclosed with solid materials with a minimum
tion in accordance with Section 504.5. thickness of 3/, inch (19 mm). No exposed rafter tails shall be
504.8 Exterior glazing. Exterior windows, window walls and permitted unless constructed of heavy timber materials.
glazed doors, windows within exterior doors, and skylights 505.4 Gutters and downspouts. Gutters and downspouts shall
shall be tempered glass, multilayered glazed panels, glass be constructed of noncombustible material.
block or have a fire protection rating of not less than 20 min 505.5 Exterior walls. Exterior walls of buildings or structures

shall be constructed with materials approved for a minimum of
504.9 Exterior doors. Exterior doors shall be approved 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction on the exterior side or
noncombustible construction, solid core wood not less than 13/, constructed with approved noncombustible materials.
inches thick (45 mm), or have a fire protection rating of not less 7 . .
than 20 minutes. Windows within doors and glazed doors shall Exception: Heavy timber or log wall construction.
be in accordance with Section 504.8. Such material shall extend from the top of the foundation to

Exception: Vehicle access doors. the underside of the roof sheathing.

504.10 Vents. Attic ventilation openings, foundation or under- 505.6 Unenclosed underfloor protection. Buildings or struc-
floor vents, or other ventilation openings in vertical exterior tures shall have all underfloor herd enclosed to the ground,
walls and vents through roofs shall not exceed 144 square with exterior walls in accordance with Section 505.5.

inches (0.0929 m*) each. Such vents shall be covered with Exception: Complete enclosure may be omitted where the
noncombustible corrosion-resistant mesh with openings not to underside of all exposed floors and all exposed structural
exceed !/, inch (6.4 mm). columns, beams and supporting walls are protected as re-

Attic ventilation openings shall not be located in soffits, in quired for exterior 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction
eave overhangs, between rafters at eaves, or in other overhang or heavy timber construction.
areas. Gable end and dormer vents shail be located at least 10 505.7 Appendages and projections. Unenclosed accessory
feet (3048 mm) from property lines. Underfloor ventilation structures attached to buildings with habitable spaces and pro-
openings shall be located as close to grade as practical. jections, such as decks, shall be a minimum of 1-hour fire-re-
16 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

SPECIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
sistance-rated construction, heavy timber construction or SECTION 506
constructed with approved noncombustible materials. CLASS 3 IGNITION-RESISTANT CONSTRUCTION
When the attached structure is located and constructed so 506.1 General. Class 3 ignition-resistant construction shall be
that the structure or any portion thereof projects over a de- 1 accordance with Section 506.
scending slope surface greater than 10 percent, the area below 506.2 Roof covering. Roofs shall have at least a Class A roof
the structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to within 6 covering, Class C roof assembly or an approved
inches (152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construction noncombustible roof covering. For roof coverings where the
in accordance with Section 505.5. rofile allows a space between the roof covering and roof deck-
i hi ti d. fi ‘ d Jud
ing, the space at the eave ends shall be firestopped to preclude
505.8 Exterior glazing. Exterior windows, window walls and ae i PP P
, ne . : y of flames or embers.
glazed doors, windows within exterior doors, and skylights ; —
shall be tempered glass, multilayered glazed panels, glass 506.3 Unenclosed underfloor protection. Buildings or struc-
block or have a fire-protection rating of not less than 20 min- tures shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to the ground
utes. with exterior walls.
. : Exception: Complete enclosure may be omitted where the
505.9 Exterior doors. Exterior doors shall be approved .
noncombustible construction, solid core wood not less than una i exposed a poe eo
13/,-inches thick (45 mm), or have a fire protection rating of not ined fi ; ior 1-h 7 BY P d ti
less than 20 minutes. Windows within doors and glazed doors ays ore —— rae nance ae alae laadeaele
shall be in accordance with Section 505.8. or heavy timber construction.
. ; 506.4 Vents. Attic ventilation openings, soffit vents, founda-
Exception: Vehicle access doors. tion or underfloor vents or other ventilation openings in verti-
$05.10 Vents. Attic ventilation openings, foundation or under- cal exterior walls and vents through roofs shall not exceed 144
; : ; : 3
floor vents or other ventilation openings in vertical exterior square inches Oe m’) cael re oe shall oe covered
walls and vents through roofs shall not exceed 144 square with norco corrosion-resistant mesh with openings
inches (0.0929 m2) each. Such vents shall be covered with not to exceed '/, inch (6.4 mm).
noncombustible corrosion-resistant mesh with openings not to
—
exceed '/, inch (6.4 mm). SECTION 507
Attic ventilation openings shall not be located in soffits, in REPLACEMENT OR REPAIR OF ROOF COVERINGS
eave overhangs, between rafters at eaves, or in other overhang —‘ The roof covering on buildings or structures in existence prior
areas. Gable end and dormer vents shall be located at least 10 to the adoption of this code that are replaced or have 25 percent
feet (3048 mm) from property lines. Underfloor ventilation or more replaced in a 12-month period shall be replaced with a
openings shall be located as close to grade as practical. roof covering required for new construction based on the type
of ignition-resistant construction specified in accordance with
505.11 Detached accessory structures. Detached accessory Section 503.
structures located less than 50 feet (15 240 mm) from a build-
ing containing habitable space shall have exterior walls con-
structed with materials approved for a minimum of 1-hour fire-
resistance-rated construction, heavy timber, log wall construc-
tion, or constructed with approved noncombustible material on
the exterior side.
When the detached structure is located and constructed so
that the structure or any portion thereof projects over a de-
scending slope surface greater than 10 percent, the area below
the structure shall have all underfloor areas enclosed to within 6
inches (152 mm) of the ground, with exterior wall construction
in accordance with Section 505.5 or underfloor protection in
accordance with Section 505.6.
Exception: The enclosure may be omitted where the under-
side of all exposed floors and all exposed structural col-
umns, beams and supporting walls are protected as required
for exterior 1-hour fire-resistance-rated construction or
heavy-timber construction.
See Section 505.2 for roof requirements.
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 17

18 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

CHAPTER 6
FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS
SECTION 601 site-specific analysis based on local conditions and the fire pro-
GENERAL tection plan.
601.1 Scope. The provisions of this chapter establish general Persons owning, leasing, controlling, operating or maintain-
requirements for new and existing buildings, structures and —_ing buildings or structures requiring defensible spaces are re-
premises located within wildland-urban interface areas. sponsible for modifying or removing nonfire-resistive
601.2 Objective. The objective of this chapter is to establish vegetation on the property owned, leased or controlled by said
minimum requirements to mitigate the risk to life and property person.
peo waa pis exposures, exposures from ne djacent a Trees are allowed within the defensible space, provided the
fete and to mitigate structure fires from spreading to wildland horizontal distance between crowns of adjacent trees and over-
. head electrical facilities or unmodified fuel is not less than 10
feet (3048 mm). Deadwood and litter shall be regularly re-
SECTION 602 moved from trees.
AUTOMATIC FIRE SPRINKLER SYSTEMS Where ornamental vegetative fuels or cultivated ground
DELETED cover, such as green grass, ivy, succulents or similar plants are
used as ground cover, they are allowed to be within the desig-
nated defensible space, provided they do not form a means of
SECTION 603 transmitting fire from the native growth to any structure.
DEFENSIBLE SPACE
TABLE 603.2
603.1 Objective. Provisions of this section are intended to REQUIRED DEFENSIBLE SPACE
modify the fuel load in areas adjacent to structures to create a eee FucLMOnRcaTIonprar mice
603.2 Fuel modification. In order to qualify as a conforming
defensible space for individual buildings or structures on a prop-
erty, fuel modification shall be provided within a distance from
buildings or structures as specified in Table 603.2. For all other
purposes, the fuel modification distance shall not be less than
30 feet (9144 mm) or to the property line, whichever is less, Fort! foot = 304.8 mm.
Distances specified in Table 603.2 shall be measured on a hori- 603.3 Community fuel modification zones. Fuel modification
zontal plane from the perimeter or projection of the building or zones to protect new communities shall be provided when re-
structure as shown in Figure 603.2. Distances specified in Ta- quired by the code official in accordance with Section 603, in or-
ble 603.2 may be modified by the code official because of a der to reduce fuel loads adjacent to communities and structures.
= Unmodified
uN fuel
Modified
fuel Fj =
Deck Modified
Tabulated SONTENIS fuel
distance ——
Unmodified
Tabulated > fuel
distance “TT
FIGURE 603.2
MEASUREMENTS OF FUEL MODIFICATION DISTANCE
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 19

FIRE PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS
603.3.1 Land ownership. Fuel modification zone land used to SECTION 606
rotect a community shall be under the control of an associa- LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS INSTALLATIONS
tion or other common ownership instrument for the life of the 606.1 General. The storage of LP-gas and the installation and
community to be protected. maintenance of pertinent equipment shall be in accordance
603.3.2 Fuel modification zone plans. Fuel modification with the International Fire Code or, in the absence thereof, rec-
zone plans shall be approved prior to fuel modification work ognized standards.
and shall be placed on a site grading plan shown in plan view. 606.2 Location of containers. LP-gas containers shall be lo-
An elevation plan shall also be provided to indicate the length cated within the defensible space in accordance with the
of the fuel modification zone on the slope. Fuel modification Interational Fire Code.
zone plans shall include, but not be limited to the following:
1. Plan showing existing vegetation. SECTION 607
2. Photographs showing natural conditions prior to STORAGE OF FIREWOOD AND COMBUSTIBLE
work being performed. MATERIALS
= Grading plan ne eared proposed bunldings Firewood and combustible material shall not be stored in unen-
“a Geen Gaen set backs trom top of slope to a closed spaces beneath buildings or structures, or on decks or
uuldings or structures. under eaves, canopies or other projections or overhangs. When
required by the code official, storage of firewood and combus-
tible material stored in the defensible space shall be located a
SECTION 604 i
minimum of 30 feet (9144 mm) from structures and separated
MAINTENANCE OF DEFENSIBLE SPACE from the crown of trees by a minimum horizontal distance of 15
604.1 General. Defensible spaces required by Section 603 feet (4572 mm).
shall be maintained annually, or as necessary in accordance Firewood and combustible materials not for consumption on
with Section 604. the premises shall be stored so as to not pose a hazard. See Ap-
604.2 Modified area. Nonfire-resistive vegetation or growth pendix A.
shall be kept clear of buildings or structures, in accordance
with Section 603, in such a manner as to provide a clear area for
fire suppression operations.
604.3 Responsibility. Persons owning, leasing, controlling,
operating or maintaining buildings or structures are responsi-
ble for maintenance of defensible spaces. Maintenance of the
defensible space shall include modifying or removing nonfire-
resistive vegetation and keeping leaves, needles and other dead
vegetative material regularly removed from roofs of buildings
and structures.
604.4 Trees. Individual trees and/or small clumps of trees or
brush crowns, extending to within 10 feet (3048 mm) of any
structure, shall be pruned to maintain a minimum horizontal
clearance of 10 feet (3048 mm). Tree crowns within the defen-
sible space shall be pruned to remove limbs located less than 6
feet (1829 mm) above the ground surface adjacent to the trees.
Portions of tree crowns that extend within 10 feet (3048
mm) of the outlet of a chimney shall be pruned to maintain a
minimum horizontal clearance of 10 feet (3048 mm).
Deadwood and litter shall be regularly removed from trees.
SECTION 605
SPARK ARRESTERS
Chimneys serving fireplaces, barbecues, incinerators or deco-
rative heating appliances in which solid or liquid fuel is used,
shall be provided with a spark arrester. Spark arresters shall be
constructed of woven or welded wire screening of 12 USA
standard gage wire (0.1046 inch) (2.66 mm) having openings
not exceeding !/, inch (12.7 mm).
The net free area of the spark arrester shall not be less than
four times the net free area of the outlet of the chimney.
20 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

APPENDIX A
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS (optional)
SECTION A101 A102.3.3.2 Trimming clearance. At the time of trim-
GENERAL ming, clearances not less than those established by Table
A101.1 Scope. The provisions of this appendix establish gen- A102.3.3.2 shall be provided. The radial clearances
eral requirements applicable to new and existing properties lo- shown below are minimum clearances that shall be es-
cated within urban-wildland interface areas. tablished, at time of trimming, between the vegetation
and the energized conductors and associated live parts.
A101.2 Objective. The objective of this appendix is to provide
necessary fire-protection measures to reduce the threat of wild- MINIMUM CLE peeseeeecuen VEGETATION
fire in an urban-wildland interface area and improve the capa- AND ELECTRICAL LINES AT TIME OF TRIMMING
bility of controlling such fires.
2,400-72,000
ETATION CONT [poor-too0 | i
VEGETATION CONTROL 22,0011-110,000
A102.1 General. Vegetation control shall comply with this 110,001-300,000 a
section. 30,001 of more
A102.2 Clearance of brush or vegetative growth from road- For SI: 1 foot = 304.8 mm.
ways. The code official is authorized to require areas within 10 Exception: The code official is authorized to estab-
feet (3048 mm) on each side of portions of fire apparatus access lish minimum clearances different than those speci-
roads and driveways to be cleared of nonfire-resistive vegeta- fied by Table A102.3.3.2 when evidence
tion growth. substantiating such other clearances is submitted to
Exception: Single specimens of trees, ornamental vegeta- and approved by the code official.
tive fuels or cultivated ground cover, such as green grass, A102.3.3.3 Minimum clearance to be maintained.
ivy, succulents or similar plants used as ground cover, pro- Clearances not less than those established by Table
vided they do not forma means of readily transmitting fire. A102.3.3.3 shall be maintained during such periods of
A102.3 Clearance of brush and vegetative growth from time as designated by the code official. The site-specific
electrical transmission and distribution lines. clearance achieved, at time of pruning, shall vary based
. on species growth rates, the utility company-specific
A102.3.1 General. Clearance of brush and vegetative trim cycle, the potential line sway due to wind, line sag
growth from electrical transmission and distribution lines due to electrical loading and ambient temperature and
shall be in accordance with Section A102.3. the tree’s location in proximity to the high voltage lines.
Exception: Section 4102.3 does not authorize persons Exception: The code official is authorized to estab-
not having legal right of entry to enter on or damage the lish minimum clearances different than those speci-
property of others without consent of the owner. fied by Table A102.3.3.3 when evidence
A102.3.2 Support clearance. Persons owning, controlling, substantiating such other clearances is submitted to
operating or maintaining electrical transmission or distribu- and approved by the code official.
tion lines shall have an approved program in place that iden- TABLE A102.3.3.3
tifies poles or towers with equipment and hardware types MINIMUM CLEARANCES BETWEEN VEGETATION AND
that have a history of becoming an ignition source, and pro- ELECTRICAL LINES TO BE MAINTAINED
vides a combustible free space consisting of aclearing of not
less than 10 feet (3048 mm) in each direction from the outer inches)
circumference of such pole or tower during such periods of 750-35,000 a ee
time as designated by the code official. 35.001-60.000
Exception: Lines used exclusively as telephone, tele- 60.001-115,000 eee
graph, messenger call, alarm transmission or other lines _isormom, | gos. |
classed as communication circuits by a public utility. 115,001-230,000 30.5
A102.3.3 Electrical distribution and transmission line 230,001-500,000
clearances. For SI: 1 inch = 25.4 mm.
A102.3.3.1 General. Clearances between vegetation A102.3.3.4 Electrical power line emergencies. During
and electrical lines shall be in accordance with Section emergencies, the utility shall perform the required work
A102.3.3. to the extent necessary to clear the hazard. An emergency
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 21

APPENDIX A
can include situations such as trees falling into power Exception: Public officers acting within their scope of duty.
lines, or trees in violation of Table A102.3.3.3. Radio and television aerials, guy wires thereto, and other ob-

A102.4 Correction of condition. The code official is autho- structions shall not be installed or maintained on fire roads or

tized to give notice to the owner of the property on which con- defensible spaces, unless located 16 feet (4877 mm) or more

ditions regulated by Section A102 exist to correct such above such fire road or defensible space.

cond ie i A es ee i oe _ toe re A103.4 Use of motorcycles, motor scooters, ultralight air-

opis — “a yo d © heth aemennis oe a Ls oe 7 craft and motor vehicles. Motorcycles, motor scooters,
aah ope vie “wh _ a Stone s - a I ultralight aircraft and motor vehicles shall not be operated

05) REPEC REMY Wilere such condition exists: within urban-wildland interface areas, without a permit by the

code official, except on clearly established public or private
SECTION A103 cadmas a the property owner shall be presented
ACCESS RESTRICTIONS ; :

A103.1 Restricted entry to public lands. The code official is A103.5 Tampering wn —- ete ee signs and ac

authorized to determine and publicly announce when urban- dress quae Kenss ea bare €s, Seals, Cables, Signs and ad-

wildland interface areas shall be closed to entry and when such dress markers installed within urban-wildland interface areas,
areas shall again be opened to entry. Entry on and occupation of by i unde r the aa of the one —— shall nepbeatams
urban-wildland interface areas, except public roadways, inhab- pered with, mutilated, destroyed or removed.

ited areas or established trails and campsites that have not been Gates, doors, barriers and locks installed by or under the

closed during such time when the urban-wildland interface control of the code official shall not be unlocked.

area is closed to entry, is prohibited.

Exceptions:
. . eq: SECTION A104

1. Residents and owners of private property within ur- IGNITION SOURCE CONTROL
ban-wildland interface areas and their invitees and - . ;
guests going to or being on their lands. A104.1 General. Ignition sources shall be in accordance with

2. Entry, in the course of duty, by peace or police offi- ecengpee
cers, and other duly authorized public officers, mem- A104.2 Objective. Regulations in this section are intended to
bers of a fire department and members of the provide the minimum requirements to prevent the occurrence
Wildland Firefighting Service. of wildfires.

A103.2 Trespassing on posted private property. A104.3 Clearance from ignition sources. Clearance between
A103.2.1 General. When the code official determines that a ignition sources and grass, brush or other combustible materi-
specific area within an urban-wildland interface area pres- als shall be maintained a minimum of 30 feet (9144 mm).
ents an exceptional and continuing fire danger because of A104.4 Smoking. When required by the code official, signs
the density of natural growth, difficulty of terrain, proximity shall be posted stating NO SMOKING. No person shall smoke
to structures or accessibility to the public, such areas shall within 15 feet (4572 mm) of combustible materials or nonfire-
be restricted or closed until changed conditions warrant ter- resistive vegetation.
seneale ch _ ann 7 or clos - i areas shall be Exception: Places of habitation or in the boundaries of es-
posted in accordance with section “— tablished smoking areas or campsites as designated by the
A103.2.2 Signs. Approved signs prohibiting entry by unau- code official.
thorized persons and referring to this code shall be placed on A104.5 Equipment and devices generating heat, sparks or
every closed area. : 5 :

. . open flames. Equipment and devices generating heat, sparks

A103.2.3 Trespassing. Entering and remaining within ar- or open flames capable of igniting nearby combustibles shall

eas closed and posted is prohibited. not be used in urban-wildland interface areas without a permit
Exception: Owners and occupiers of private or public from the code official.
property within closed and posted areas; their guests or Exception: Use of approved equipment in habitated pre-
invitees; authorized persons engaged in the operation mises or designated campsites that are a minimum of 30 feet
and maintenance of necessary utilities such as electrical (9144 mm) from grass-, grain-, brush- or forest-covered ar-
power, gas, telephone, water and sewer; and local, state eas.
Eine federal public officers and their authorized agents A104.6 Fireworks. Fireworks shall not be used or possessed in
acting in the course of duty. . .

A urban-wildland interface areas.
103.3 Use of fire roads and defensible space. Motorcycles, .o. .

motor scooters and motor vehicles shall not be driven or parked Excep pon: Fireworks bree << by ae an aes 7

on, and trespassing is prohibited on, fire roads or defensible permit aie bi 7 7 penn ihe a en

space beyond the point where travel is restricted by a cable, — ; ESE aR nNCable loed! oristatetiaws  nemarices
gate or sign, without the permission of the property owners. and regulations.

Vehicles shall not be parked in a manner that obstructs the en- The code official is authorized to seize, take, remove or

trance to a fire road or defensible space. cause to be removed fireworks in violation of this section.

22 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

APPENDIX A
A104.7 Outdoor fires. A105.3 Explosives. Explosives shall not be possessed, kept,
A104.7.1 General. No person shall build, ignite or maintain #0Fed: sold, offered for sale, given away, used, discharged,
. at transported or disposed of within urban-wildland interface ar-
any outdoor fire of any kind for any purpose in or on any ur- xcept b it f the code official
ban-wildland interface area, except by the authority of a COS ee ee omeral.
written permit from the code official. A105.4 Combustible materials.
Exception: Outdoor fires within inhabited premises or A105.4.1 General. Outside storage of combustible materi-
designated campsites where such fires are in a permanent als such as, but not limited to, wood, rubber tires, building
barbecue, portable barbecue, outdoor fireplace, incinera- materials or paper products shall comply with the other ap-
tor or grill and are a minimum of 30 feet (9144 mm) from plicable sections of this code and this section.
any combustible material or nonfire-resistive vegetation. A105.4.2 Individual piles. Individual piles shall not exceed
A104.7.2 Permits. Permits shall incorporate such terms and 5,000 square feet (465 m’) of contign ot eee ee
conditions that will reasonably safeguard public safety and note cete es cubic feet (1416 m:) in volume or 10 feet
property. Outdoor fires shall not be built, ignited or main- (3048 mm) in height.
tained in or on hazardous fire areas under the following con- A105.4.3 Separation. A clear space of at least 40 feet (12
ditions: 192 mm) shall be provided between piles. The clear space
1. When high winds are blowin shall not contain combustible material or nonfire-resistive
, 8 8: vegetation.
2. Whena person 17 years old or over is not present at all
times to watch and tend such fire, or
3. When a public announcement is made that open burn- SECTION A106
ing is prohibited. DUMPING
A104.7.3 Restrictions. No person shall use a permanent A106.1 Waste materi al. Waste material shall not be placed,
barbecue, portable barbecue, outdoor fireplace or grill for deposited or dumped mn urban-wildland interface haga
the disposal of rubbish, trash or combustible waste material. 2 along alls? EoanW/AVS or highways or against structures
in urban-wildiand interface areas.
A104.8 Incinerators, outdoor fireplaces, permanent barbe- mo : . 7
cues and grills. Incinerators, outdoor fireplaces, permanent inp aeeas, Approved public and approved private dump
barbecues and grills shall not be built, installed or maintained ,
in urban-wildland interface areas without approval of the code A106.2 Ashes and coals. Ashes and coals shall not be placed,
official. deposited or dumped in or on urban-wildland interface areas.
Incinerators, outdoor fireplaces, permanent barbecues and Exceptions:
grills shall be maintained in good repair and in a safe condition 1. In the hearth of an established fire pit, camp stove or
at all times. Openings in such appliances shall be provided with fireplace.
an approved spark arrestor, screen or door. 2. In anoncombustible container with a tightfitting lid,
Exception: When approved by the code official, unpro- which is kept or maintained in a safe location not less
tected openings in barbecues and grills necessary for proper than 10 feet (3048 mm) from nonfire-resistive vegeta-
functioning. tion or structures.
A104.9 Reckless behavior. The code official is authorized to 3. a ar aan a ees 7 7 ee
stop any actions of a person or persons if the official determines feet (7620 mm) from nonfire-resistive vegetation or
that the action is reckless and could result in an ignition of fire structures.
or spread of fire.
A104.10 Planting vegetation under or adjacent to ener-
gized electrical lines. No vegetation shall be planted under or SECTION A107
adjacent to energized power lines that, at maturity, shall grow PROTECTION OF PUMPS AND
within 10 feet (3048 mm) of the energized conductors. WATER STORAGE FACILITIES
A107.1 General. The reliability of the water supply shall be in
accordance with Section A107.
SECTION A105 A107.2 Objective. The intent of this section is to increase the
CONTROL OF STORAGE reliability of water storage and pumping facilities and to pro-
A105.1 General. In addition to the requirements of the Inter- _ tect such systems against loss from intrusion by fire.
national Fire Code, storage and use of the materials shall be in A107.3 Fuel modification area. Water storage and pumping
accordance with Section A105. facilities shall be provided with a defensible space of not less
A105.2 Hazardous materials. Hazardous materials inexcess “an 30 feet (9144 mm) clear of nonfire-resistive vegetation or
of 10 gallons (37.8 L) of liquid, 200 cubic feet (5.6m?) of gas, Fowth around and adjacent to such facilities.
or 10 pounds (4.54 kg) of solids require a permit and shall com- Persons owning, controlling, operating or maintaining wa-
ply with nationally recognized standards for storage and use. ter storage and pumping systems requiring this defensible
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 23

APPENDIX A

space are responsible for clearing and removing nonfire-resis-
tive vegetation and maintaining the defensible space on the
property owned, leased or controlled by said person.

A107.4 Trees. Portions of trees that extend to within 30 feet
(9144 mm) of combustible portions of water storage and
pumping facilities shall be removed.

A107.5 Protection of electrical power supplies. When elec-
trical pumps are used to provide the required water supply,
such pumps shall be connected to a standby power source to au-
tomatically maintain electrical power in the event of power
loss. The standby power source shall be capable of providing
power for a minimum of two hours in accordance with the ICC
Electrical Code.

Exception: A standby power source is not required where

the primary power service to pumps are underground as ap-

proved by the code official.

SECTION A108
LAND USE LIMITATIONS

A108.1 General. Temporary fairs, carnivals, public exhibi-
tions and similar uses must comply with all other provisions of
this code in addition to enhanced ingress and egress require-
ments.
A108.2 Objective. The increased public use of land or struc-
tures in urban-wildland interface areas also increases the po-
tential threat to life safety. The provisions of this section are
intended to reduce that threat.
A108.3 Permits. Temporary fairs, carnivals, public exhibi-
tions or similar uses shall not be allowed in a designated urban-
wildland interface area, except by permit from the code offi-
cial.

Permits shall incorporate such terms and conditions that will

reasonably safeguard public safety and property.
A108.4 Access roadways. In addition to the requirements in
Section 403, access roadways shall be a minimum of 24 feet
(7315 mm) wide and posted NO PARKING. Two access road-
ways shall be provided to serve the permitted use area.

When required by the code official to facilitate emergency
operations, approved emergency vehicle operating areas shall
be provided.

24 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE

APPENDIX B
VEGETATION MANAGEMENT PLAN
Vegetation management plans shall be submitted to the code clude removal of slash, snags, vegetation that may grow
official for review and approval as part of the plans required for into overhead electrical lines, other ground fuels, ladder
a permit. Vegetation management plans shall describe all ac- fuels and dead trees, and the thinning of live trees.
tions that will be taken to prevent a fire from being carried to- 3. A plan for maintaining the proposed fuel-reduction mea-
ward or away from the building. A vegetation management sures.
plan shall include at least the following information: To be considered a fuel modification for purposes of this
1. A copy of the site plan. code, continuous maintenance of the clearance is required.
2. Methods and timetables for controlling, changing or mod-
ifying areas on the property. Elements of the plan shall in-
UTAH FIRE RESISTIVE SPECIES
Adapted from “Utah Forest Facts: Firewise Plants for Utah Landscapes”
Utah State University Extension, 2002
Grasses Geranium species (Geranium)
Agropyron cristatum (Crested Wheatgrass) Hemerocallis species (Daylily)
Agropyron smithii (Western Wheatgrass) Heuchera sanguinea (Coral Bells, Alum Root)
Buchloe dactyloides (Buffalograss) Iberis sempervirens (Evergreen Candytuft)
Dactylis glomerata (Orchardgrass) Tris species & hybrids (Iris)
Festuca cinerea and other species (Blue Fescue) Kniphofia species & hybrids (Red-hot Poker)
Lolium species (Rye Grass) Lavandula species (Lavender)
Poa pratensis (Kentucky Bluegrass) Leucanthemum X superbum (Shasta Daisy)
Poa secunda (Sandberg Bluegrass) Limonium latifolium (Sea-lavender, Statice)
Linum species (Flax)
Herbaceous Perennials Liriope spicata (Lily-turf)
Achillea clavennae (Silvery Yarrow) Lupinus species & hybrids (Lupine)*
Achillea filipendulina (Fernleaf Yarrow) Medicago sativus (Alfalfa)
Achillea - other species & hybrids (Yarrow)* Oenothera species (Primrose)
Aquilegia - species & hybrids (Columbine) Papaver species (Poppy)
Armeria maritime (Sea Pink, Sea Thrift) Penstemon species & hybrids (Penstemon)
Artemisia stelleriana (Beach Wormwood, Dusty Miller) Perovskia atriplicifolia (Russian Sage, Azure Sage)
Artemisia - other species & hybrids (Various names)* Potentilla nepalensis (Nepal Cinquefoil)
Bergenia — species & hybrids (Bergenia) Potentilla tridentata (Wineleaf Cinquefoil)
Centranthus rubber (Red Valerian, Jupiter’s Beard) Potentilla verna (tabernaemontani) (Spring Cinquefoil; Creeping
Cerastium tomentosum (Snow-in-summer) Potentilla)
Coreopsis auriculata var. Nana (Dwarf Mouse Ear Coreopsis) Potentilla — other non-shrubby species & hybrids (Cinquefoil,
Coreopsis — other perennial species (Coreopsis) Potentilla)*
Delosperma nubigenum (Hardy Ice Plant) Salvia species & hybrids (Salvia, Sage)*
Dianthus plumarius & others (Pinks) Sedum species (Stonecrop, Sedum)
Erigeron hybrids (Fleabane)* Sempervivum tectorum (Hen and Chicks)
Gaillardia X grandiflora (Blanket Flower) Stachys byzantina (Lamb’s Ear)
Geranium cinereum (Hardy Geranium) Yucca filamentosa (Yucca)
Geranium sanguineum (Bloody Cranesbill, Bloodred Geranium)
continued
2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE 25

APPENDIX B

Shrubs and Woody Vines Trees

Atriplex species (Saltbush) Acer species (Maple)

Ceanothus americanus (New Jersey Tea) Betula species (Birch)

Ceanothus ovatus & others (Ceanothus) Cercis canadensis (Eastern Redbud)

Cistus species (Rock-rose) Populus tremuloides (Quaking Aspen)

Cotoneaster dammeri (Bearberry Cotoneaster) Populus — other species (Poplar, Cottonwood)

Cotoneaster horizontalis (Rockspray or Rock Cotoneaster) Salix species (Willow)

Cotoneaster — other compact species (Cotoneaster)

Hedera helix (English Ivy)

Lonicera species & hybrids (Honeysuckle)

Mahonia repens (Creeping Oregon Grape)

Parthenocissus quinquefolia (Virginia Creeper)

Prunus besseyi (Sand Cherry)

Purshia tridentata (Bitterbrush, Antelope Bitterbrush)

Pyracantha species (Firethom, Pyracantha)

Rhamnus species (Buckthorn)

Rhus trilobata (Skunkbush Sumac)

Rhus — other species (Sumac)

Ribes species (Currant, Gooseberry)

Rosa rugosa & other hedge roses (Rugosa Rose)

Shepherdia canadensis (Russet Buffaloberry)

Syringa vulgare (Lilac)

Vinca major (Large Periwinkle)

Vinca minor (Dwarf Periwinkle, Common Periwinkle)

* Plants or groups of pions marked with an asterisk (*) can become wees? in certain circumstances, and may even be noxious weeds with legal
restrictions against their planting and cultivation. Check with your local Extension office or State Department of Agriculture for information
on noxious weeds in your area.

Note: Some of the listed plants may not be considered “water-wise” or drought-tolerant for arid climates.

26 2006 UTAH WILDLAND-URBAN INTERFACE CODE
