COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ORDINANCE # (\~" (442s
April 5, 2017
AN ORDINANCE TO ADOPT RULES OF ORDER, PROCEDURE, AND GOVERNANCE
BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Copperton Metro Township Council met in
a regular public meeting on April 5, 2017.
WITNESS
WHEREAS, Utah Code §10-3b-504(3)(b)(ii) authorizes the Copperton Metro Township to make
and enforce any rule or regulation for the government of the Township Council, the preservation
of order, and the transaction of the Council’s business; and
WHEREAS, the Council’s legal counsel has prepared Rules of Order, Procedure, and
Governance (the “Rules”) to set forth the policies and procedures that will govern the Council’s
business and transactions in accordance with applicable law; and
WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the Rules; and
WHEREAS, the Council desires to approve the Rules.
RESOLUTION
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED, the Copperton Metro Township Council does hereby
adopt and execute the Rules of Order, Procedure, and Governance attached to this ordinance,
provided that the Rules are amended to:

1, Authorize the use of electronic meetings;

2. Require Council Members when representing the Township or Council on any
board or similar organization to vote according to the will of the Council on those
matters for which the Council has taken an official position, and, for matters
where the Council has not taken an official position, to require Council Members
to exercise their best judgment in determining how to cast their vote in
accordance with the best interests of the Township;

3. Specify that the terms for Officers shall be one (1) year in length, beginning on
January | and ending on December 31 of each year; and

Ordinance #2017-_ Page 1 of 2

4. Specify that the Township will obtain price quotes for all expenditures up to
$2,000.00 in accordance with the purchasing policy set forth in the Rules.
APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah this
5th day of April, 2017.
Ron Patrick, Council Chair
ATTEST:
. .
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township/Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Bailey voting Kite
Council Member Baxter voting Ai
Council Member Clayton voting PAG
Council Member Patrick voting Ae
; ; ; Rp
Council Member Stitzer voting rm we
4845-8761-2486, v. 1
Ordinance # 2017-_s- Page 2 of 2.

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
RULES OF ORDER, PROCEDURE, AND GOVERNANCE
APRIL 5, 2017
TABLE OF CONTENTS
ARTICLE Ifl- METRO TOWNSHIP GOVERNMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH UTAH
CODE §10-3b-501 through 10-3b-504 oo eee cece ers eeenrtercerieeeseeerstereren
Section A ~ Powers Vested in Five-Member Council 0... eeeereceeneeerseretecesetesttesestneene 2
Section B-— Vacancies .o.cccccccccccccecsecsseeeeesseeecsesseeecsececseveceeeerseecteetestestesecssentesseseceerieesereee 2
Section C — Duties and Powers of the Council ........cccccccccsecssssessvesssssssesssvecsessvecsecssesssessseesesvessnessevesevese 2
Lo AUthority occ ccc ccccccsecceeeceeseccseeceseeescseessevaeenersessseseevesscissenseestieestsssestisseeeeteeneen 2
4. Council Authority Over Chait... ccceeeceteereneeeneiicieesrsisnenstseeieeea Dd
5. Adoption of Ordinances and Regulations ....0..0.. ccc cccccseccccceeeeereertetsettetetetnte od
To COMMMILCES oo ccccccccccsececesssesessseecieeeesssceeeeseecsseeeeseesesteteiteseatrseeseirsensesisestisenteseese
8. Enforcement 0.00.0 eccccreetecreerenereeesns sti tienesteseriiaseeiisscseieiiesieeee D
9, LAMItAtIONS ooo ccc ccc ccc ceceesacevesaeceeseesessceececsaquesssuun coaseaeserstesetsseeesseaeseetesttessetsissseeseee A
LO. Compensation... ccccccccccecseeceeceseecnssctsssecseesssacersesereneneseareneseteueentisiecrieesecseecees A
LD. Voting ici ccceeccccceecenececeeeeccseeeeseesscecssecisenieetiestiseceeeraeesavecnsaeeneeeerreetecetesersessses
12. Personne] ....ccccccccccccccccccecsseeecccvssecceeseeeseseeeesscnsestsessseeseseessieeesetresssecssetessisessssstersseessee &
LA, DeCorusn ooo. cece cccecccccscecccesseeccsecessseseececeestensesnssaneeteqmensstetesieeccceeeseceteerectereresveerseseee 4
15. Board Representation 0.0. eeccceeeeceerennenneceuneseescereneeneensrrecceertrserresenssrerseeseees #
16. Miscellancous .......cccccccccccesecesccsseeessceeeeeecescesacecsegeersceessueesecessseesetseecsssersssseetsserstessseestesses #
Section D — Council Chait ......0cccccccccceccccccsceeseeceececscsceesesseeseeeecenaseseeceesssessseseentsesiseetsesseeteserteeseee
2. Ceremonial FUNctions ........0 cece ceccceeeeennecneeaeeceee cesses eeseeereetseeescseesneeeesteesteteeseeteeeeseeee
i

3. No Veto Authority 0c cccceccccccceeestcrssesatestatssssescrssvessreveessvssessttietvieatisae 3

4, Representation on the Municipal Services District 0.000000. cceeecseeeeesecesereststertreveeee3

6. Discretionary Duties 2... ccc ccseceeeecceeeescstsssseescescraverevuasevseressivtvvetieeesea 3

Fo LAM ATIONS oe ce cece teeteee cee ceeseesetetseuseteusesesessiesiesssvecesseseesasstertvetersrseitieversecs ®

8. Recording of Open Meetings and Minutes oo... cccccscceereeestestvsteecscssrsvtvseteevsssee ©

9. Miscellaneous oo... ccccccccessccecsceeceesecsesscsssessssssesecsssseeesevacseeateatsavsevacavarvevavevsvarsitesesseevsens O
Section E — Vice-Chair oo. ccccccccccceccceeeeececscesscascaesecaestssvsssssterescssersssessassavssssvesevrstvieee
Section F — Treasurer Pro Tempore/Treasuret oo... cccccccceccecececcccsveseessvssessessesesersvseevsteseessesteseeseas 6
1. Budget Development oo... ceceeetsceeseeeseesescesescsesecsanetsesssssesssesevsvatnevsssevavsviveevavsene 6

2. ROCOPGS oie cececceeceseceeaeesessnssseseesssessessisesvassesecsevavssestcssescstevssetnrvitetessisveserstseree O

3. REPOrteng on cece ce ceeceeecseceeeaeesesesecsessesssseesseecsecrevsessevssssesersrsestsersviseeaae

SB. Miscellaneous occ cccccccceecesseessesecsescsscsescecsstscsecscscseacsecsecsvsevasvesssvevavsevavissveveteaverearvevsese 7

6. Comversion to Treasurer... cocci ccccceccccescsesesccscsesscsescsesevsevevsscsevscsevsvavvsvsnvavsvevecvereevesvavsseecee 7
Section G — Secretary ccs ccccceecccececcccsessecseeesascasssesceteccsveccstesvstersvssesessssersessrevsvevevsatevsvsevaveee
1. Recording and Minutes of Council Meetings 0.0. cccccccercesvecesveveseeseesvsevsvesseseseee 7

2. NOCCS ec ceccccccceneeeeeeeeeeeessevstsecsscsecsesessesesessssessestersestessusavstvassisssvissiseevasvavearseeseesee 7

3. Records Generally onic ccecceeeeeecsecseectsnsessscssssssvevavsesecsecerecssersvivevesvavesesvesavesvavvavsevavsrene 7

4. Township Seabee ccccccesseceeessessesecsesevsessessssesessesssssssevsevsevssevaveressvavisvsevsvsvestveseseesseesee 7

6G. Miscellaneous oo... ccc cccccceccecesceseeseeseseseeseeseressessssssesseseccsevseestvstessvsseasssviteressvesesesssessessaseae 8
ARTICLE IV- MEETINGS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS ooo cccceccecccteeersseereeeeees 8
Section A ~ Regular Meetings 20... cc cccccceccccscccccsecseeteesssstsvatstessssvetsscrstseesvavssvecsssevuserss use 8
Section B ~ Special Meetings oo... ccc ce ecscecsssssesesesesesestsuevscscsecsesecevsvetavsesesersavevsvsvussteressaeee S
Section C ~ Emergency Meetings o.... ccc ccccccccccccecccseseesesesesvsescsevsesscstvsssesevavsavsrstivssssatevavevteavsese 8
Section D ~ Public Hearings oo... occ ccccccscccccccccessvecesessesestsstesssevscsatercreeeesvrsvsstssseesvetvassavsevatvareeree 8
Section E — Notice of Meetings oo... cccccecscceescseseesssssecscsssesserevavssvasatatesessvstevssevevstestssvavstsvseee 8
2. Notice of Regular Meeting Schedule 0... ccc cece ccecccecscessessvsscssesscssvavssasssavevesseteaverssesee

3. Notice of Public Meetings oo. .ceccccccccccecesevsetesevscseseescssesssceesesssssscesvssaevacestevateavsteavsresvae®

4, Posting of Notice for Regular and Special Meetings .....cccccccccccceceeesecssesveccesesessesaveesaveseee 9

5. Notice of Emergency Mectings. oo... cecccececccseesseescsesecescecsscsevevsscivssasvaveveresvasssvacevstseesee 9

6, Posting Notice for Public Hearings ooo ceccccccccecsccscstececeserevecsevecvaeecstsevassitarseveseaes 9

il

Section F ~ Meetings Open to the Public... ccc cece ere ceees es eestneeteesreeseeeretersitiseeesesrasen D
Seotion G ~ QUuorusn .o...cec ccc cccccccccecsecsecseeseseecesecseseeeesseeeeeesecrecseneriscreuseteeeeterirrisereteiseerieceee D
Section H — Agendac.in.cicccccccccccccsccceececscsecereeecceseesesesecseeeecsesereceueiseetessseteesitissssereiteererrinstsieeses D
2. Agenda Development oo...cccccccccccceeesssecsteereteeesinereersseeseeesresteteeeeaeees LO
Section I ~ Meetings Discussion .......c.cccccccc teeters reteneiteeenieneieiieisenreeeeecees LO
Section J — Public Input ..0..0. ccc c ersten ecient LO
1. Time Allotted for Public Comment ......0..ceece ccc teteesrre erties LO

2. Public Comments oo... ccccceeeeteetecseceereeeeeseeeeteieeserenrersinetiteetaresaees LO

3. D@COTUM ooo coceccccececceececscecsceeseesteteesteseteestsetsesiseuseetesveteneetesrsisettneeeseeas LQ
Section K = Motion... .ccccccccccscecececescsesssessesciteseseseienessu eters LO
lL. Making Motions ...0.0cccccceccceccece crete eeeteirineneeenereniseiieiistsisnetees LO

2. Second Required oo... ccc ccc eee erence neiseserereteneiieseeeseces EL

3. Withdrawing a Motion/Second oo... ccc ccc eects LL

4. Motion to Table oi. cccccccccccccccceceececsceneenecescteesceesensersesetetsreesersereteieeriseeeres EE

5. Amending Motions ......cccccccccccseseceereerereeeereseseeseereesieseieeessererrerieeeisstescscseaces EE

6. Substitute Motions oo... ccc ccesccseceeseese essere eteeseteeseteeeteretetereteieteteeree EL

7. Reconsidering a Motion .........ccccce cee EL
Section L — Voting .....ccccccecceccceccereseeseceesecseretseseeteneuesteneteesesereistecressitissssretcssecee EL
1. Number of Votes Required o...ccccccc ccc eeteteteeee cesses EL

2. Roll Call Votes ooccccccccccccccsccsccseceseesecseceseeseesceseestreeseneesetrenesseseteeeeeees LL

3. No Proxy Voting ...cccccccccccscccceeee eneereeeeeeteeeieserieiieieotsesses LL
Section M ~ Minutes and Recording of Meetings ..........0.0 cee eeeteeetereterereitesttsateseeeces LZ
1. LOG iStiCS oie ccc cecccceescecessssesesesesesesetevseseseeeseeensieseientitasiesearsssssisittisitsenssteesecsseecesses ED

2. Council Names oiccccccccccccccccsecsscsscccsesesessesssseceesassetseseiecseisiseeasisessrssteeeeasreseseees 12

3. COMtCI eee c ccc cccecceceucesecscscsseseesecsecesssscsecsececsessecsesseeerscsssereueseesteveeseereersesisersreseseeens L2

Al VOtes ocececcecciccccecccsesccscceesecescsessceressusessseseeeseaseaseueceeceeciesseensesseecseetenssesseseeesiteereteereeees 12

6. Miscellancous .occ.ccccccccccccscecscsecsecceeeceesesecsevsetessersesesevecsssessieueseaeetiessestesersssaeee L2
Section N — Closed Meetings ...cccccccccccccccceeeesereteetenetsnseensueneusesssesitaseresttitsssssteetereessecasacse LQ
L. Authorized Purposes 20.0000 0ccccccccccecscecsccecseceeeceseteereseeseensereersesersisseessceseesesesectarseree b2

2. Prohibited Activities oo..ccccccccccccceceeesecsseseereeeeeeseeecseeseneiserseseaseretsststsstsestesstacteaesens 12

3. Records of Closed Meetings oo... ccccccceceeec eects setretetettenereneneeterteseeen LS
Section O ~ Electronic Mectings .....00...0ccccccccceceeeeseeeeeeeeeestecteteersevieetieteetireitseeteeereere LS

lit

TP. Definitions oo cece ccc eecetecsecssessestssetateeesstatesevstetercserseeitvseeene 13

2. Calling and Holding Electronic Meetings o.....00.ccccc ccc ccecsterevteee reeves 13

3. Anchor Location oie ceecceeceee ee csccteeeetteecsceestttetiseetittatertettervreesae 13

4, Notice of Electronic Meeting o.oo tt tte 13

S. Emergency Electronic Meetings ...00...ccccccccccceececsseecstecteserrsertisttisvteveviese 14

G6. Participation oo eccccececec eect ee teetetteeststetteevittitietesttettrttsteee 14

7. Continuing and/or Reconvening Electronic Meetings 00.00.00 ccc cccccecesesereetecreveerreeeee 14
Section A — Municipal Services District .0..000c0ccccccccccccccsccsesscseesecsscssecscessecsseaversectavssevasssecssevsvsrees L4
Section B — Development of Annual Budget ...0..0.0. cc cccccccececcssesctceceerescssenecreesscrsvavstesesseeevreee 14
3. Budget Development oo... eee eseerere tees teeeneteteesctetsesseesseeiteitestestersteve 14

4, Notice for Public Hearing on Tentative Budget 000000 cccececesececsecsecscreveresvereeseeee 15

6, Submittal to the Municipal Services District .0..0000000 00 eee eeceeececereseereesreeveee 15S
ARTICLE VI- EXPENDITURES AND ACCOUNTING oooooccceccccerreerreeeree LS
Section A —~ Payments Made by the Municipal Services District ...00..00ccccccccecececseeesseeseereereereeeee LS
Section B ~ Payments Made by the Township ...........ccccccccccceecccccecessesevsevssesseveteseescescseevsveereveeeeee LS
Section C — ACCOUMING oo cece cceeseeeseessecsasescrssessessestssecstesissssitertvtscsescrssertesiteeteavees 16
2. Reconciliation oie cceecceceeceeesececeseseccseeessesessesensesessessessessssessssesvesteatvevsevssvsenereeesee 16

3. REPO ec ceccccececeecesensessecsecsecseessesesecsessesessesesessstsstsscceessesseesevstsitvsteseateranrvervareeee LG
Section D — Authority to Purchase ....00.0cc cc ccccccceeesecseeseseesssesseesesecscesestenserstevetstestasrvecssvsteseerveere £6
Section E ~ Purchasing Procedure 0.0.0.0. ceeecccccecceceseesseeecssesaesessceressvcscerecreevsesssvsitvasesvevssevevverseeee 16
L. Purchases up to $2,000.00 ooo cece ccecc cece cctecstvsesesnevstessesssvitestveatereaaviareene 16

2. Purchases from $2,001.00 to $50,000.00 ooo. ccccsercestsseerssescesseeseseesaterereee, 16
Section F — Sole Source Procurement oo... coco cccccceecsessesseseesscresssccssessecressaseevvatvessveseneeeeeeee ET
Section G — Emergency Purchases 20... cccccccccccccceeeeseseessesesacsessececesecessesccssessrestevstvessavessveevacseseneeee LT
Section H — Acceptance of Proposals ooo ccc ccc ccccceececsceseesseseescesscsceseessccasersesvstestessssarssssstsecseene 17

iV

Section I~ Noncompliance ....ccccccccccceccceccccceeeceeseseecreeeeseseectsesssesererestenrstsesevatttssceeecees ED
Section J — Audit: ccccccccccccccccecececsecscsesscsescescessevseeseevsecssceeeseersnssseeneveeteevitisssstveteeesatreseteceee ET
Section A — Ethics and Conflict .o0.c.ccccccccccccccceccccscecsvseeseeneescerevsessteereatirreenssestsctetvastvitsacsee D7
L. Conflicts of Interest occ cccccccceeececc cre ccttscssseteree iiss 18
2. Disclosures Generally .o....cccccccccececeeeseseseeeeeneeeeteiseesieieseesesesesesscsesaeees EB
3, Transactions o..ccccceccccccccccccsecscscseescsssessesessceeseesiettestecaeseeevteisestistsettetierteiaetsaeeene LO
4. General Prohibition of Donations, Payments, Service$ 1.0.0.0... eee LO
Vv

COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
RULES OF ORDER, PROCEDURE, AND GOVERNANCE

ARTICLE {—- PURPOSE

These Rules of Order, Procedure, and Governance (the “Rules”) are implemented to
provide guidelines for the governance of the Copperton Metro Township Council (the
“Council’) in the execution of its duties and to provide for the orderly conduct of Council
business. The objective of these Rules is to provide for full, open, and comprehensive debate of
issues brought before the Council for action in a forum open to the public that encourages
citizens’ awareness of Council activities. The Rules also have the objective of ensuring that the
Council shall be strictly governed and regulated by the provisions of applicable law. In the
interest of transparency and responsibility to the public which this Council serves, all actions and
ordinances shall be enacted according to these Rules. In the event of a conflict between these
Rules and any ordinances that the Council may adopt, these Rules shall apply and the conflicting
ordinance shall be repealed. In the event of a conflict between these Rules and state law, these
Rules shall be interpreted, adjusted, or modified accordingly to comply with State law.
ARTICLE II — DEFINITIONS

The following definitions shall apply to these Rules.

1. “BOARD or DISTRICT BOARD” as used herein shall mean the Board of Trustees
for the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District.

2. “COUNCIL” as used herein shall mean the five-member council authorized to
exercise the powers of municipal government in the Copperton Metro Town pursuant to Utah
Code §10-3b-501.

3, “COUNCIL CHAIR or CHAIR” as used herein shall mean the Council-elected
Council Chair and the Council’s representative to the Municipal Service District.

4, “COUNCIL SECREFARY or SECRETARY” shall mean the Council-elected
Secretary.

5. “COUNCIL MEMBER or MEMBER” as used herein shall mean any member of the
Copperton Metro Township Cauncil.

6. “COUNCIL TREASURER PRO TEMPORE or TREASURER” as used herein shall
mean the Council-elected Treasurer Pro Tempore or Treasurer.

7. “COUNCIL VICE CHAIR” as used herein shall mean the Council-elected Vice Chair
and Chair Pro Tempore in the absence of the Chair.

8. “COUNTY CLERK” as used herein shall mean the Salt Lake County Clerk.

1

9. “DISTRICT” as used herein shall mean the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District.

10. “OFFICER or OFFICERS” as used herein shall mean the Officers of the Council;
namely, the Chair, Vice-Chair, Treasurer Pro Tempore/Treasurer (if applicable), and the
Secretary.

11. “RULES” as used herein shall mean the Council’s Rules of Order, Procedure, and
Governance.

12. “TOWNSHIP” as used herein shall mean the Copperton Metro Township.

13. “COUNTY TREASURER” as used herein shall mean the Salt Lake County
Treasurer.

ARTICLE lI - METRO TOWNSHIP GOVERNMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH
UTAH CODE §10-3b-501 through 10-3b-504

Section A ~ Powers Vested in Five-Member Council: The powers of municipal
government in a metro township included in a municipal services district, as defined in Utah
Code § 10-3b-501, ef seqg., are vested in the Council, which shall consist of five Members elected
by the constituents of the Township.

Section B — Vacancies: Vacancies on the Council should be advertised and interested
citizens should be given the opportunity to be considered for the vacancy. Each Council Member
shall continue to serve until a successor is duly elected or appointed and qualified, unless the
Member is removed from office, resigns, or otherwise leaves office.

Section C — Duties and Powers of the Council: The Council shall have the following
duties, powers, and responsibilities.

1. Authority: The Council shall exercise any and all executive or administrative power
authorized under the law pursuant in accordance with Utah Code §§10-3B-501, 10-3B-504
and any other applicable law, including but not limited to general planning and zoning for the
Township. In every case, the will of the Council is expressed by majority vote of the Council
and no statement or act of any individual Council Member shall be viewed as the will of the
Council without official action by the Council approving, authorizing, or ratifying such
statement or act.

2. Officers: The Council shall elect from its five Members by a simple majority vote a
Chair to exercise the powers set forth in Utah Code §10-3b-503, including but not limited to
the Chair’s responsibility to represent the Township on the Board of the Municipal Services
District. The Council shall also elect from its five Members a Vice-Chair, a Treasurer Pro
Tempore/Treasurer (if applicable, as provided herein), and a Secretary. The Chair, Vice-

2

Chair, Treasurer Pro Tempore/Treasurer, and Secretary shall constitute the Officers of the
Council, and none of the officers may be the same person. Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-
503(4), if the Chair is absent, unable, or refuses to act, the Council Vice-Chair shall serve as
the Chair Pro Tempore. If both the Chair and Vice-Chair are absent, unable, or refuse to act,
the Council may elect another Member to serve as Chair Pro Tempore. The Chair Pro
Tempore shall preside at Council meetings and perform the duties and functions of Chair
during the absence, disability, or refusal to act of the Chair, and if applicable, the Vice-Chair.
The County Treasurer shail serve as the Township’s Treasurer and the County Clerk shall
serves as the Township’s Clerk until such time as the Utah Legislature, the State Auditor, a
court of applicable jurisdiction, or other applicable authority provides otherwise.

3. Terms: Each Officer shall serve a term of one (1) year to begin on January | and end
on December 31 of each year.

4. Council Authority Over Chair: Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-504(2), the Council
has the power to remove from, or reinstate to, the Chair powers, duties, and functions with an
affirmative vote of the Chair and a majority of the other Council Members, or the unanimous
vote of the other four Council Members, excluding the Chair. In accordance with Utah Code
§ 10-3b-504(1)(c) the Council may not delegate or remove from the Chair: (i) the Chair’s
position as Chair of the Council; (ii) any of the Chair’s legislative powers or ceremonial
functions; or (iit) any ex officio position the Chair holds.

5. Adoption of Ordinances and Regulations: Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-504(3), the
Council may, by majority vote, adopt ordinances, rules, and regulations for the government
of the Council, the preservation of order, the transaction of the Council’s business that the
Council considers necessary, and any actions allowed under Utah Code § 10-8-84 that are
reasonably necessary to protect the safety, health, morals, and welfare of the Township’s
constituents. The Council shall specifically provide for the manner in which a subdivision is
approved, disapproved, or otherwise regulated by ordinance, as required by Utah Code § 10-
3b-504(3)(a)(i). The Council shall also not adopt ordinances or regulations without first
providing the public with an explanation of the purpose of the proposed ordinance and the
exact wording of the proposed ordinance and an opportunity to be heard thereon in
accordance with the notice requirements of the Utah Open Meetings Act, Utah Code § 52-4-
202.

6. Budget and Expenses: Review and approve a Township budget and Township
expenses in accordance with Articles V and VI.

7. Committees: Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-504(3)(b)(), the Council may appoint a
committee of Council Members and/or citizens over the age of 21 to conduct investigations
into an officer, department, or agency of the municipality, or any other matter relating to the
welfare of the Township, including but not limited to general planning and zoning. The
Council may also delegate to an appointed committee powers of inquiry that the Council
considers necessary.

3

8. Enforcement: Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-504(3)(b) (ii), the Council may enforce
any ordinance, rule, or regulation regarding the government of the Council, the preservation
of order, the transaction of the Council’s business, and any other ordinance, rule, or
regulation that the Council considers necessary, and any actions allowed under Utah Code §
10-8-84 that are reasonably necessary to protect the safety, health, morals, and welfare of the
Township’s constituents,

9. Limitations: Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-504(3)(c), the Council may not:

i. Direct or request, other than in writing, the appointment of a person to or the
removal of a person from an executive municipal office.

ii. Interfere in any way with an executive officer’s performance of the officer’s
duties.

iii. Publicly or privately give orders to a subordinate of the Chair.

10. Compensation. The Officers and Members of the Council shall receive such
compensation for services rendered as the Council may deem to fix or approve, provided that
no Member or Officer of the Council shall have any other compensated employment with the
Township pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-504(4) and that total compensation may not exceed
$1,200.00 per year per for Council Member or Officer.

11. Voting: Each Council Member, including all Council Officers, shall be regular voting
Members.

12. Personnel: The Council may hire employees and/or contract with independent
contractors and may authorize the payment of appropriate compensation to the same,
provided that the Council shall first adopt a personnel policy prior to hiring employees, The
Council may also hire employees and/or contract with independent contractors to assist the
Officers in fulfilling their responsibilities, subject to Council oversight.

13. Censure: The Council can vote to censure any Officer of the Council with a majority
vote in the affirmative. A censure is an official act condemning behavior through resolution
that records and codifies certain acts by the Council Members.

14. Decorum: Council Members shall not engage in personal attacks and shall respect the
viewpoints of the public, other Council Members, the Township staff and employees. Failure
to do so may result in censure.

15. Board Representation: When representing the Township or Council on any board or
similar organization, Council Members must vote according to the will of the Council on
those matters for which the Council has taken an official position. In the absence of an
official position by the Council, Council Members must exercise their best judgment to
determine how best to vote in accordance with the best interests of the Township.

4

16. Miscellaneous: The Council shall always act, to the best of its abilities, in the best
interest of the Township and its constituents and shall act with transparency, using
appropriate means reasonably available under the law to communicate decisions, debates,
and discussions with the public.

Section D— Council Chair: The Chair shall perform the following duties.

1. Meetings: The Chair shall conduct and preside at Council meetings when present.

2. Ceremonial Functions: The Chair may exercise ceremonial functions for the
Township, although such ceremonial functions should be judiciously considered and
deliberately selected in the tradition of civilian governance.

3. No Veto Authority: The Chair may not veto any ordinance, resolution, tax levy, or
any other action taken by the Council.

4. Representation on the Municipal Services District: The Chair shall represent the
interests of the Council as a member of the District Board, including voting as directed by the
Council in accordance with Article III(C)(15).

5. Required Duties: Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-503(2)(a), the Chair shall:

i. Keep the peace and enforce the laws of the Township.

ii. Ensure that all applicable statutes and Township ordinances and resolutions are
faithfully executed and observed.

ill. If the Chair remits a fine or forfeiture, the Chair must report the remittance to the

Council at the Council’s next. meeting after the remittance.

iv. Perform all duties prescribed by statute or Township ordinance or resolution.

v. Report to the Council on the condition and needs of the Township.

vi. Report to the Council any release granted under Article II(D)(6)(iv) of these
Rules.

vii. Perform those duties set forth in Article VI.

6. Discretionary Duties: Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3b-503(2)(b), the Chair may:

1. Recommend for Council consideration any measure that the Chair considers to be
in the best interests of the Township.
ii. Remit fines and forfeitures.
5

ill. If necessary, call on residents of the Township over the age of 21 to assist in
enforcing the laws of the State and ordinances of the Township.

iv. With the Council’s advice and consent, release a person imprisoned for a
violation of a Township ordinance.

v. With the Council’s advice and consent, appoint a person to fill a Township
vacancy on a commission or committee of the Township.

vi. At any reasonable time, examine and inspect the official books, papers, records,
or documents of the Township or any officer, employee, or agency of the Township.

7. Limitations: The powers of the Chair are subject to the Council’s authority to limit or
expand the Chair’s powers.

8. Recording of Open Meetings and Minutes: Pursuant to Utah Code § 10-3c-203(6), the
County Clerk may choose not to attend an open meeting of the Council, in which case the
County Clerk will ensure that either the Chair or a designee of the County Clerk makes a
recording of the meeting and prepares written minutes of the meeting. In the event that the
County Clerk asks the Chair to record a Council meeting and prepare written minutes of the
meeting, the Chair shall designate such responsibility to the Secretary or instruct the County
Clerk to name the Secretary as its designee to record the meeting and prepare the written
minutes.

9. Miscellaneous: Perform any and all other acts and things that may be required by the
Council, these Rules, or applicable law.

Section E — Vice-Chair: The Vice-Chair shall act in the place and stead of the Chair in
the event of the Chair’s absence or inability or refusal to act, and shall exercise and discharge
such other duties as may be required by the Council. The Vice-Chair shall also perform any and
all other acts and things that may be required by the Council, these Rules, or applicable law.

Section F ~ Treasurer Pro Tempore/Treasurer: The Salt Lake County Treasurer shall
act as the Treasurer of the Township until such time as the State Auditor, Legislature, a court of
applicable jurisdiction, or other applicable authority authorizes the Township to open and operate
its own banking accounts and pay the Township’s expenses directly. In the absence of such
authority, the Council shall select a Member to serve as Treasurer Pro Tempore to perform the
following duties.

1. Budget Development: Develop and oversee the development and implementation of

the Township budget in consultation with the Chair and the Council pursuant to Article V.

2. Records: Maintain at the Township offices correct books of account of all the
Council’s business and transactions and such other books of account as the Council may
require and exhibit such records at all reasonable times to any Council Member, Township
constituent, or applicable State or local official.

6

3. Reporting: Render a statement of the conditions of the finances of the Council at each
regular meeting of the Council and at such other times as shall be required.

4. Expenses: Perform those duties set forth in Article VI.

5. Miscellaneous: Perform any and all other acts and things that may be required by the
Council, these Rules, or applicable law.

6. Conversion to Treasurer: In the event that the Township obtains authority to open and
operate its own banking accounts and pay its own expenses, the Treasurer Pro Tempore shall
automatically become the Township Treasurer and shall have the following duties in addition
to any other duties authorized herein:

i. Maintain custody of all the funds and securities of the Township.

il, Prepare checks or payments for all invoices, payments, and expenses for Council
review and approval.

iii. Co-sign checks or otherwise make payment for Township expenses with the Chair
or, in the absence of the Chair, another duly authorized Council Member after verifying
that the Council has authorized payment and that sufficient funds are available.

iv. Receive all public funds and money payable to the Township and issue receipts
for all funds received. The Treasurer shall also deposit all such funds the Township
receives in the name of the Township in such bank or banks, trust company or trust
companies, or safe deposit vaults as the Council may designate in accordance with the
State Money Management Act, Utah Act, Utah Code § 51-7, ed seg.

v. Obtain and maintain a bond of sufficient amount to satisfy the requirements of the
Utah State Money Management Council and Utah Code § 51-7-15.

Section G ~ Secretary: The Secretary shall perform the following duties under the direction of
the Council and in coordination with the County Clerk.

1. Recording and Minutes of Council Meetings: When so designated by the Chair or the
County Clerk pursuant to Article HI(D)(8) above, record Council meetings and prepare
accurate written minutes of each meeting in accordance with Article [V(L) below.

2. Notices: Working in coordination with the County Clerk, ensure that all notices of the
Council and the Township are provided in accordance with these Rules and applicable law.

3. Records Generally: Keep at the Township offices, or at another location approved by
the Council, correct books of account of all Township business and transactions and such
other books of account as the Council may require.

7

4. Township Seal: Serve as custodian of the Township seal and affix the Township Seal
when required, with the authority to designate custodian operations and duties to applicable
staff subject to oversight by the Chair and the Council.

5. Agenda: Working in coordination with the County Clerk, develop all agenda for
Council meetings in accordance with Article [V(H) below.

6. Miscellaneous: Perform any and all other acts and things that may be required by the
Council, these Rules, or applicable law.

ARTICLE IV —- MEETINGS AND PUBLIC HEARINGS

Section A — Regular Meetings: The Council shall meet at least once each month, and
more frequently as Township business may require, on the first and third Wednesday of each
month, provided that the Council may change the meeting schedule from time to time. These
meetings shall be known as the “regular meetings.”

Section B — Special Meetings: The Chair or a majority of the Council may call as many
special meetings, in addition to the regularly scheduled meetings, as shall be deemed necessary.
These meetings shall be known as the “special meetings.”

Section C — Emergency Meetings: The Chair or a majority of the Council may call
emergency meetings with less than 24 hours’ notice to address an urgent and unforeseen matter
if a majority of the Council votes in the affirmative to hold the meeting, but all action taken at
any emergency meeting shall be considered and/or ratified at a regular meeting or a special
meeting. No emergency meeting shall be held unless an attempt has been made to notify all
Council Members.

Section D — Public Hearings: The Council shall hold public hearings when required by
law, as well as items for which the Council wishes to receive public input. Public hearings will
be held after providing proper notice as required by these Rules pursuant to State law. At the
beginning of a public hearing, the Council Member with knowledge of the issue will first present
information on the issue and answer questions. The Chair will then call on any applicants,
experts, agencies, etc. to make a brief presentation about the subject of the public hearing before
declaring the public hearing opened. No motion shall be required to open a public hearing. All
parties interested in addressing the issue shall be allowed to speak before any discussion is held
by the Council. Public comments during a public hearing may be limited in time, but the number
of comments shall not be, provided that the Chair may curtail comments that do not pertain to the
topic of the public hearing or are duplicative or argumentative in nature. Upon the closure of
public comments, the Chair will declare the closure of the hearing. The Council may vote to
continue the public hearing to a future specified date, time, and location if the Council
determines that additional public comment would be beneficial in making a decision and there is
insufficient time to do so at the present hearing. After the public comments, the applicant or
expert shall be allowed to address public comment and answer questions from the Council. After
the discussion by the Council a motion may occur.

8

Section E — Notice of Meetings: The following provisions shall apply to Council
meetings.

1. Open and Public Meetings Act: Notice of all meetings, whether regularly scheduled
meetings or special meetings shall be provided in accordance with the notice provisions of
Utah Code § 52-4-202 and all other applicable provisions of the Utah Open and Public
Meetings Act, Utah Code § 52-4-ef seg.

2. Notice of Regular Meeting Schedule: The Council shall provide public notice at least
once each year of its meeting regular meeting schedule for that year. The notice shall specify
the data, time, and place of the Council’s regular meetings.

3. Notice for Public Meetings: The notice for all public meetings, including regular
meetings, special meetings, workshops, and executive sessions in which as quorum is
present, shall include the agenda, the date of the meeting, the data, time, and place of the
meeting.

4. Posting of Notice for Regular and Special Meetings: The Council shall provide notice
of all regular and special meetings at least 24 hours prior the meeting by:

i. Posting the notice at the Township’s principal office, or if no principal office
exists, at the building where the meeting will be held;

it. Posting the notice on the Utah Public Notice Website; and

iii. Providing the notice to at least one newspaper of general jurisdiction within the
geographic jurisdiction of the Township or a local media correspondent.

5. Notice for Emergency Meetings: No Notice for Emergency Meetings is required,
other that posting notice on the Utah Public Notice Website with as much lead time is
available under the circumstances.

6. Posting Notice for Public Hearings: The Council shall provide notice of any public
hearing at least seven days prior to the meeting by following the procedures set forth in
Article IV(E)(4), provided that the Council must comply with any other notice requirements
under State law which are applicable to the subject of the public hearing.

Section F ~ Meetings Open to the Public: All meetings of the Council shall be open to
the public and shall by conducted in compliance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act,
Utah Code § 52-4-e/ seg., except for duly noticed and called closed sessions, which shall also be
conducted in compliance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act.

Section G — Quorum: The Council shall not conduct any business without the presence
ofa quorum. Three Members shall constitute a quorum of the Council.

9

Section H — Agenda: The Council shall use the following procedures when developing
an agenda for its meetings.

1. General Requirements: Each agenda shall provide reasonable specificity to notify the
public as to the topics to be considered at the meeting. Each topic shall be listed as an item on
the meeting agenda. Each agenda shall allocate time for public comments.

2. Agenda Development: An item may be placed on the agenda by the Chair or at the
request of any Council Member. The Council Secretary shall be responsible for preparing the
agenda and including items requested by the Chair or Council Members. Council Members
must submit agenda items to the Secretary by 5:00 pm on the Monday prior to the
Wednesday date of the meeting, or within forty-eight (48) hours of the day in which the
meeting is scheduled in the event the Council changes the day of its regular meetings from
Wednesday. Any item that is submitted to the Secretary after the deadline will be put on the
next following regular meeting agenda. The Council Member requesting the agenda item
shall also notify the Chair of the added agenda item. The advance notice requirements in this
subsection are not applicable to Article IV, Section C and to emergency agenda items or
agenda items in an emergency meeting.

Section I - Meeting Discussion: The Council may not consider a topic in an open
meeting that is not on the agenda. The Council may discuss a topic raised by the public during an
open meeting that was not on the agenda, but the Council may not take final action on the topic
during that meeting.

Section J — Public Input: The Council shall adhere to the following regarding public
input at public meetings.

1. Time Allotted for Public Comment: The Chair shall ensure that each public meeting
includes a public comment period equal to at least three minutes per topic. However, the
Chair may, in its discretion, allow for a longer period of time for public comment on a case-
by-case basis.

2. Public Comments: The Chair shall allow for public comments to occur prior to taking
a vote or other action on non-procedural issues. Council Members shall respect the time of
recognized individuals providing comments and shall refrain from taking part in distracting
or otherwise separate activities during the public comment period. Council Members shall
also respond in good faith to questions posed to them during public comment, when
recognized, to the best of their ability.

3. Decorum: Violations of decorum or conduct of Council Members shall be addressed
by the Chair, or the Council Member authorized to conduct the meeting in the Chair’s
absence, who may declare the Council Member out of order. A Council! Member may be
expelled from a meeting for disorderly conduct after one verbal warning upon the vote of
three Members of the Council. Members of the public shall also act with decorum and due
respect for the Council. The Chair may expel any member of the public from a meeting for
disruptive behavior after on verbal warning from the Chair.

10

Section kK — Motions: Council Members shall make motions in accordance with the

following requirements.

1. Making Motions: Any Council Member may make or second a motion. Motions
should state findings for denial or approval within the motion.

2. Second Required: Each motion of the Council must be seconded by a Member of the
Council. A motion without sufficient second is considered to have failed.

3. Withdrawing a Motion/Second: After a motion is made and seconded, it shall be
deemed in the possession of the Council, but it may be withdrawn at any time before the vote
or amendment.

4, Motion to Table: A motion to table an agenda item for further study should be
accompanied by specific reasons for continuing the matter and, whenever feasible, a specific
date to rehear the matter. The item shall be placed on the next available Council agenda or on
the agenda of the specified meeting.

5. Amending Motions: When a motion is pending before the Council, any Council
Member may suggest an amendment without a second at any time prior to the chair calling
for a vote on the motion. The amendment must be approved by the Members making and
seconding the original motion, or the amendment must be revisited as a future agenda item.

6. Substitute Motions: A substitute motion, which shall replace the original motion, may
be made prior to a vote on the original motion. The substitute motion must be accepted by the
Members making and seconding the original motion in order to substitute the original
motion. If not accepted, the Member making the substitute motion shall wait until after a vote
on the original motion to make a new motion.

7. Reconsidering a Motion: To recall a previous motion for further evaluation,
substitution, or action, a motion for reconsideration may be made by a Council Member who
voted with the majority. The motion to reconsider must pass with a minimum of three votes.
If it is determined that the motion should stand as previously approved, no formal vote is
necessary. If the former motion is to be amended, substituted, or voided, the motion shall be
put to a formal vote of the Council. Motions to reconsider a previous motion should normally
take place during the same meeting the motion was made.

Section L— Voting: Council Members shall adhere to the following provisions when

voting on Council business.

1. Number of Votes Required: Unless otherwise provided by State law or these Rules,
the minimum number of votes to determine an item presented to the Council shall be three
votes. Motions to suspend the Rules require four affirmative votes.

11

2. Roll Call Votes: A roll call vote is required in ordinances, resolutions, and actions
that would create liability for the Township, and actions where the author or seconder
specifically requests a roll call.

3. No Proxy Voting: Vote by proxy shall not be allowed for any purpose.

Section M — Minutes and Recording of Meetings: Working in conjunction with County

Clerk and Chair, the Secretary shall ensure that all Council meetings are recorded and that that
accurate minutes for each meeting are prepared that include:

1. Logistics: The date, time, and location of the meeting.

2. Council Names: The names of Council Members present, absent, and/or excused.

3. Content: The substance of all matters proposed, discussed, and decided.

4. Votes: The votes cast by individual Council Members.

5. Attendees: The names of each person who is not a member of the Council, and who,
after being recognized by the Chair, provided testimony or comments and the substance in
brief of their testimony or comments.

6. Miscellaneous: Any other information that is relevant to the proceedings of the
meeting that any Council Member requests to be entered in the minutes or recording.

Section N — Closed Meetings: The Council shall only close a meeting when authorized

to do so under Utah Code §§ 52-4-204, 52-4-205, and 52-4-206.

1. Authorized Purposes: The Council may only close a meeting upon the affirmative
vote of two-thirds of the Members present at the meeting to discuss the following authorized
purposes:

i. The character, competence or health of an individual.

ii. Deployment of security personnel, devices, or systems.

iii. Collective bargaining tssues.

iv. Pending or reasonably imminent litigation.

v. Purchase, exchange, lease, or sale of real property, including any form of a water

right or water shares, if such discussion prevents the Council from completing a

transaction on the best possible terms for the Township.

vi. Investigative proceedings regarding allegations of criminal misconduct.
12

vil. Information that is required to be maintained private or protected by the Utah
Procurement Code, Utah Code § 63G-61, et seg., including trade secrets.

2. Prohibited Activities: During a closed meeting, the Council may not:

i. Act onan ordinance, resolution, rule, regulation, contract, or appointment,

il. Interview a person applying to fill an elected position;

ul. Discuss filling a midterm vacancy or temporary absence; or

iv. Discuss the character, professional competence, or physical or mental health of
the person whose name was submitted for consideration to fill a midterm vacancy or
temporary absence.

3. Records of Closed Meetings: The Council shall take minutes of and record all closed
meetings in accordance with Utah Code §52-4-206, except for closed meetings held to
discuss the character, competence or health of an individual, or the deployment of security
personnel, devices, or systems, in which case the Member presiding over the meeting shall
sign a sworn written statement affirming that the sole purpose for closing the meeting was to
discuss these issues.

Section O — Electronic Meetings: The Council may hold electronic meetings if it calls

and holds such meetings in accordance with the following:

1. Definitions:

i. “Electronic meeting(s)” means a public meeting that the Council convenes or
conducts by means of a telephonic, telecommunications, webinar, or computer
conference.

ii. “Anchor location” means the physical location from which the electronic meeting
originates or from which the participants are connected.

2. Calling and Holding Electronic Meetings: Any meeting of the Council, including
public hearings, may be called in accordance with Section A through D of this Article and
held via electronic meeting, provided that the Council calls such meeting in conformance
with Utah Code § 52-4-207, as amended, and consistent with the procedures set forth herein.

3. Anchor Location: The Township’s meeting room, where the Council would normally
meet if it was not holding an electronic or telephonic meeting, shall be the anchor location
for all electronic meetings, and the Council finds that said room provides the necessary
space, equipment, and facilities so that interested persons and the public may attend and
monitor the open portions of the meeting.

13

4, Notice for Electronic Meeting: The Council will call an electronic meeting by giving
notice of the meeting, including notice of the agenda, date, time and anchor location of the ;
electronic meeting, at least 24 hours before the meeting, by:

i. Posting written notice of the electronic meeting at the anchor location;

ii. Providing written or electronic notice of the electronic meeting via email or fax to
at least one newspaper of general circulation in the Township area and to a local media
correspondent:

ili, Providing notice of the electronic meeting to the each Council Member at least 24
hours before the meeting so that the Council Members may participate in and be counted
as present for all purposes, including the determination that a quorum is present; and

iv. Providing to each Council Member a description of how they will be connected to
the electronic meeting.

5. Emergency Electronic Meetings: When unforeseen circumstances require the Council
to hold an emergency electronic meeting to consider matters of an emergency or urgent
nature, the 24-hour notice requirement of preceding section may be disregarded and the best
notice practicable under the circumstances shall be given. No such emergency meeting will
be held unless an attempt has been made to notify every Member and a majority of the
Members vote in favor of holding the emergency meeting.

6. Participation: The open portions of any electronic meeting shall be conducted so that
each person attending the meeting, either in person or electronically, may attend, monitor
and, if appropriate, participate therein.

7. Continuing and/or Reconvening Electronic Meetings: An electronic meeting may be
continued by majority vote of those Members present, in person or electronically, and
reconvened any number of times without any additional notice if the date, time, and anchor
location for the next continuation thereof are publicly announced during an open portion of a
duly called or continued electronic meeting. A description shall also be provided to each
Member of how they will be connected to the next reconvened meeting. In addition, an
attempt shall be made to give notice of the date, time, and anchor location for the meeting to
be reconvened to each Member not present at the time the meeting was continued.

ARTICLE V —- BUDGETING

Section A — Municipal Services District: The District shall approve the total amount of
funds that shall be available to the Township each year and shall set such funding aside in an
appropriate fund(s).

Section B — Development of Annual Budget: The Council shall adhere to the following

procedures in developing the Township’s annual budget.

1. Budget Calendar: The budget year shall begin on January f of each year and end on
December 31 of each year.

14

2. Anticipated Budgetary Needs: By August 15 of each year, the Treasurer Pro Tempore
or Treasurer (if applicable) shall prepare an estimate of the Township’s anticipated financial
needs for the upcoming budget year for Council approval. The Council will approve a budget
request to submit to the District no later than September 15, and the Council Chair shall
provide the approved budget request to the Chair of the District Board no later than
September 25,

3. Budget Development: The District will approve a total budget amount for the
Township each year and it is anticipated that the District will provide such approval in
November. After receiving the total approved budget amount from the District, the Treasurer
Pro Tempore or Treasurer (if applicable) shall prepare a tentative budget that allocates the
funds approved by the District. After the Treasurer Pro Tempore (if applicable) has
developed a tentative budget, the Council shall consider the tentative budget at its next
meeting, at which time the Council shall make any necessary changes and approve a tentative
budget. Depending on when the Council receives the approved budget amount from the
District, the Council may need to call a special meeting to consider and adopt a tentative
budget. The Council shall also schedule a public hearing in December to discuss the tentative
budget.

4. Notice for Public Hearing on Tentative Budget: The Council shall provide notice of
the public hearing required herein at least seven (7) days prior to the public hearing by
publishing the notice in at least one issue of a newspaper of general circulation, if there is a
newspaper of general circulation in the Township’s area, and by positing the notice in at least
three (3) public places and on the Utah Public Notice Website.

5. Public Hearing: At the public hearing, the Council shall take public comment on the
tentative budget proposal, make any necessary changes, and adopt a final budget.

6. Submittal to the Municipal Services District: Within thirty (30) days of approving the
final budget, the Treasurer Pro Tempore or Treasurer (if applicable) shall submit the final
budget to the District and the State Auditor.

ARTICLE VI - EXPENDITURES AND ACCOUNTING

Section A — Payments Made by the Municipal Services District: Until such time as the
State Auditor, the Legislature, a court of applicable jurisdiction, or other applicable authority
require otherwise, the County Treasurer shall act as the Township’s Treasurer and shall be
responsible for paying all bills and expenses presented to the Municipal Services District by the
Township. The Treasurer Pro Tempore shall present any approved expenses and related
documentation that the Township has incurred to the Council Chair, who will then provide said
expenses to the Chair of the District Board. The Chair of the District Board will review and
approve the expenses, which the County Treasurer shall then pay.

15

Section B — Payments Made by the Township: The Township shall adhere to the
following procedures at such time as the Township has authority to open and operate its own
banking accounts and to pay its expenses directly.

|. Treasurer: The Council’s Treasurer Pro Tempore shall become the Treasurer for the
Township.

2. Purchasing Agent: The Council may designate an individual or individuals to serve as
the Township’s purchasing agent(s). No other individual(s) shall make expenditures on
behalf of the Township and purchasing agent(s) shall not have accounting or bookkeeping
responsibilities or have access to the Township’s accounts and records.

3. Payments: The following provisions shall govern payments made by the Township.

it. All checks executed by the Township must be signed by the Treasurer and the
Chair, or other duly authorized Council Members in the absence of the Chair and the
Treasurer.

ii. The signing of blank checks is prohibited.

iii. Payments shall not be made from cash on hand other than from a properly
established petty cash fund.

iv. The Council may open credit card accounts, provided that the Council must re-
approve all open credit card accounts annually.

Section C — Accounting: All money coming into any funds or accounts established by
the District for the Township shall be recorded in the Council’s accounting records in accordance
with the following provisions.

1. Entries: The Treasurer Pro Tempore or Treasurer (if applicable) shall make all entries
in the Township’s accounting records or checkbook (if applicable) immediately upon receipt
and in a clearly written and well explained matter.

2. Reconciliation: The Treasurer Pro Tempore or Treasurer (if applicable) shall
reconcile the Township’s financial records each month, including but not limited to
reconciling its checkbook with its bank statement each month, if applicable.

3. Reporting: The Treasurer Pro Tempore or Treasurer (if applicable) shall report at
each regular scheduled Board shall review all deposits and expenditures at least quarterly to
ensure compliance with the Council’s budget and to identify irregularities.

Section D — Authority to Purchase: The Council shall approve all expenditures of the
Township. No individual may make purchases on behalf of the Township unless they have been
duly approved and authorized to do so by the Council.

16

Section E — Purchasing Procedure: No purchase may be artificially divided to
circumvent procedures noted below and all purchases shall be subject to Council approval.

1. Purchases up to $2,000.00: Treasurer Pro Tempore or Treasurer (if applicable) or
purchasing agent shall obtain price quotes from at least two vendors. Price quotes must be
obtained by phone, fax, or letter from a representative of an established, viable vendor, and
documented on a quote sheet.

2. Purchases from $2,001.00 to $50,000.00: Treasurer Pro Tempore or Treasurer (if
applicable) or purchasing agent shall obtain written price quotes from at least three vendors.
Price quotes must be written proposals from a representative of an established, viable vendor
who ts properly licensed to complete the work.

3. Purchases greater than $50,000.00: Purchases greater than $50,000.00 are subject to
competitive sealed bidding. The Treasurer Pro Tempore or Treasurer (if applicable) or
purchasing agent may contact potential vendors seeking requests for proposals; however, a
request for proposals will also be publicly advertised in at least one newspaper of general
circulation in the area.

Section F ~ Sole Source Procurement: If at least two quotes cannot be obtained, the
purchase is considered a sole-source purchase. Sole-source purchases require prior Council
approval and if the service is on-going, the service must be re-approved by the Council annually.

Section G ~ Emergency Purchases: An emergency condition is a situation which
creates a threat to public health, welfare, or safety such as may arise by reason of floods,
epidemics, riots, equipment failures, or such other reason as may be determined by the Council.
The existence of such condition creates and immediate and serious need for supplies, services, or
other needs that cannot be met through normal procurement methods. Emergency procurement
shall be limited to only those supplies, services, or construction items necessary to meet the
emergency. When an emergency arises, the purchaser should seek competitive procurement as
practical; however, competitive procurement procedures may be omitted. The person is
responsible for making an emergency procurement shall make a written determination stating the
basis for an emergency procurement and for the selection of the particular supplier.

Section H — Acceptance of Proposals: Award must be made to the vendor submitting
the lowest quote meeting the minimum reasonable specifications and delivery date. However,
awards for professional services may be made on the basis of all relevant factors, including, but
not limited to professional experience, qualifications, and cost.

Section I - Noncompliance: Individuals who do not comply with provisions of this
policy will be subject to withdrawal of the authority to make purchases.

Section J — Audit: Before the end of each fiscal year, the Council shall hire an
independent certified public accountant to complete an audit the Township’s finances and to
conduct a regular risk assessment regarding its policies and internal controls. The Council may
also convene an audit advisory committee consisting of a subset of Council Members that may,

17

in the Council’s sole discretion, also include outside financial experts to oversee the selection of
the independent certified public accountant. Upon receipt of the audit and risk assessment, the .
Council shall present the results of such audits at its next regular meeting.
ARTICLE VU ~— RULES OF ETHICS
Section A - Ethics and Conflict: Council Members shall comply with all aspects of the
Utah Public Officers’ and Employees Ethics Act, Utah Code § 67-16, ef seq., including but not
limited to the following:

1. Conflicts of Interest: No public official of the Township, including Council Members
and Officer, Township employees, or other members of an officially appointed and
constituted public body of the Township, shall have personal investments or interests in any
business entity which will create a substantial conflict between his or her private interests and
his or her public duties, and shall disclose every conflict of interest of which the public
official has knowledge prior to consideration of any action in any public meeting before the
Council or other such public body of the Township on a matter in which the official has a
conflict of interest. Public officials of the Township who do have a conflict of interest shall
disclose the conflict prior to any public meetings on the matter presenting the conflict, shall
not vote on the matter, and shall not speak during the meeting on the matter under
consideration, unless the majority of the remaining Council Members or other public body of
the Township determined that adequate consideration of the matter requires responses from
the public official with the conflict. Public officials with a conflict of interest shall not
attempt to influence other Township officials or staff outside of the meeting. For the
purposes of these Rules, a conflict of interest shall exist if the public offictal knows or has
reason to know that the official or a parent of the official or the official’s spouse, sibling,
child, other member of the same household, agent, principal, client, employer, or employee:

i. Is required to disclose a conflict of interest pursuant to Utah Code §§ 67-16-7, and -
8;

ii. Has an ownership interest in a business having matters under proper consideration
before the Council or public body of the Township;

ili. Has an ownership interest in property within the Township for which development,
conditional use, or zoning approvals are under consideration before the Council or other
public body of the Township;

iv. Is an agent, contractor, professional services provider, or other advisor to an
individual or organization with matters under consideration by the Council or other public
body of the Township; or

18

v. Has an ownership interest in a business or property, other than that of a primary
residence, that they might enjoy direct and immediate financial benefit or suffer direct
economic harm by zoning, conditional use or development approvals of land before the
Council or other public body of the Township.

2. Disclosures Generally: Pursuant to Utah Code § 67-16-7, every Council Member or
Township employee who is an officer, director, agent, or employee of any business entity
that is subject to Township regulation or who owns an interest that exceeds $2,000.00 in any
business entity which is subject to Township regulation shall disclose any such position held
and/or the precise nature and value of the Member or employee’s interest upon first
becoming a Council Member or employee, and again whenever the Council Member or
employee’s position in the business entity changes significantly or the value of the interest in
the entity is significantly increased. Council Members and employees shall make this
disclosure by filing a sworn statement with the Council. If an employee of the Township has
an immediate supervisor other than the Council itself, the employee shall file the statement
with that immediate supervisor. Disclosures made under this section are public information
and shall be available for examination by the public.

3. Transactions: Pursuant to Utah Code § 67-16-8, no Council Member or Township
employee shall participate in his or her capacity or receive compensation with respect to any
transaction between the Township and any business entity for which the Council Member or
Township employee is also an officer, director, or employee or owns an interest that exceeds
$2,000.00, unless disclosure has been made under Article VII(A)(2).

4. General Prohibition of Donations, Payments, Services: No public official of the
Township shall demand or accept, from any person, the donation of personal property,
money, or services to the public official individually or to the Township, except as otherwise
authorized in Utah Code §§ 67-16-5.3, -5.6 and any other applicable statutes.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah
this day of , 2017.
By:
Ron Patrick, Council Chair
ATTEST
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township/Recorder
19

VOTING
Council Member Bailey voting a
Council Member Baxter voting _.
Council Member Clayton voting ee
Council Member Patrick voting _.
Council Member Stitzer voting
4849-2708-8966, v. |

20

