COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ORDINANCE # 2017-|{ -02
November 15, 2017
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM PROHIBITING THE
ACCEPTANCE OR APPROVAL OF AN APPLICATION FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL,
RE-ZONING REQUESTS AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENT IN THE COPPERTON
METRO TOWNSHIP
BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Copperton Metro Township Council (the
“Council”) met in a regular public meeting on November 15, 2017.
WITNESS
A. WHEREAS, the Copperton Metro Township (“Copperton”) was established to
give the residents of Copperton greater control over the affairs of their community, including but
not limited to planning and zoning decisions; and
B. WHEREAS, until such time as the Council establishes a planning and zoning
commission and enacts Copperton-specific planning and zoning ordinances, the planning and
zoning ordinances of Salt Lake County will regulate development within Copperton; and
C. WHEREAS, the Council finds that Salt Lake County’s planning and zoning
ordinances may not necessarily reflect the best interests of Copperton and its residents; and
D. WHEREAS, Section 10-9a-504 of the Utah Code Annotated allows a municipal
legislative body to enact an ordinance establishing a temporary land use regulation for any part
or all of the area within a metro township; and
E. WHEREAS, Section 10-9a-504 of the Utah Code Annotated allows a municipal
legislative body in the temporary land use ordinance to prohibit or regulate the erection,
construction, reconstruction, or alteration of any building or structure or any subdivision
approval; and
F, WHEREAS, the Council recently appointed members to a planning and zoning
commission, but the commission is not yet a fully functioning commission capable of accepting
or approving applications for subdivision approval, changes of use, building permits, or any
other development in Copperton; and
G. WHEREAS, Council has not yet finalized Copperton-specific planning and
zoning ordinances to govern planning and zoning decisions in Copperton; and
H. WHEREAS, the planning and zoning commission cannot accept, review, or
approve applications for re-zoning requests, conditional uses, permitted uses, subdivision
approvals, and planned unit developments within Copperton without Copperton-specific
Ordinance #2017-____ Page 1 of 3

planning and zoning ordinances; and

I. WHEREAS, while this moratorium is in effect, the Council will complete the
activation of the planning commission and zoning commission and adopt Copperton-specific
planning and zoning ordinances; and

J. WHEREAS, the Council finds that accepting or approving any application for re-
zoning requests, conditional uses, permitted uses, subdivision approvals, and planned unit
developments without a functioning planning and zoning commission and without Copperton-
specific planning and zoning ordinances will adversely affect the Council’s ability to regulate
development that is compatible with the best interests of Copperton and its residents, which
constitutes a compelling, countervailing public interest that justifies this temporary moratorium
under Section 10-9a-504; and

K. WHEREAS, the Council finds that Copperton’s interest in adopting this
temporary moratorium outweighs any private interests in developing property under Salt Lake
County’s existing planning and zoning ordinances.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP AS FOLLOWS:

1. Pursuant to Section 10-9a-504, Utah Code Annotated, the Council expressly finds
that the adverse effects of accepting or approving an application for re-zoning requests,
conditional uses, permitted uses, subdivision approvals, and planned unit developments within
Copperton before the Council completes the process of establishing a functioning planning and
zoning commission and adopts Copperton-specific planning and zoning ordinances is not in the
best interests of Copperton or its residents, and constitutes a compelling, countervailing public
interest sufficient to justify a six month moratorium.

2. The Council further finds that any harm to private interests is de minimus and
outweighed by Copperton’s interest in completing the activation of the planning and zoning
commission and the creation and adoption of Copperton-specific planning and zoning
ordinances.

3. During the period of this moratorium, Copperton will not accept or approve an
application that seeks approval for re-zoning, conditional uses, permitted uses, subdivision
approvals, and planned unit developments within Copperton.

4, This moratorium remains in effect for six months following the date of its
enactment.

5. Nothing in this moratorium will impact any permits that were validly issued prior
to the adoption of this moratorium.

6. This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its adoption.

Ordinance #2017-_—- Page 2 of 3

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah this
Z day of NovepeY 2017.
— ae S =
Ron Patrick, Council Chair
ATSEST:
| 4 Se ae aes ee Wy a
| Sherrie Swensen
| Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Bailey voting Pre
Council Member Baxter voting PNY
Council Member Clayton voting RAD
Council Member Patrick voting awk)
Council Member Stitzer voting BAL
4834-1914-3762, v.1
Ordinance #2017-_- Page 3 of 3
