COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ORDINANCE # 2017-|\4.- 0]
December 20, 2017
AN ORDINANCE GOVERNING THE ISSUANCE OF VOUCHERS ALLOWING
COPPERTON RESIDENTS TO DISPOSE OF HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE AT THE
TRANS-JORDAN LANDFILL
BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Copperton Metro Township Council (the
“Council”) met in a regular public meeting on December 20, 2017.
WITNESS

A. WHEREAS, on December 14, 1993, Kennecott Utah Copper Corporation entered
into the attached agreement (the “Agreement”) with the predecessors-in-interest of the Trans-
Jordan Landfill (“Trans-Jordan’”); and

B. WHEREAS, Article 7.4 of the Agreement and the associated warranty deed that
conveyed title to Trans-Jordan provide: “For so long as the Property shall be used as a landfill,
Grantee herby grants to the residents of the community of Copperton the right to dispose of solid
household waste and refuse upon the Property, in compliance with the rules and regulations of
the landfill, and the same will be handled and disposed of in the same manner as materials
brought upon the Property by Grantee, all without cost to the residents of Copperton;” and

C. WHEREAS, residents of the Copperton Metro Township (“Copperton”) are
third-party beneficiaries of the Agreement; and

D. WHEREAS, Trans-Jordan has indicated that it has experienced difficulties in
verifying the residency of individuals claiming to be Copperton residents and situations in which
individuals have sought to dispose of waste that does not qualify as household solid waste and
refuse; and

E, WHEREAS, the Copperton Metro Township Council has determined that it is
better positioned that Trans-Jordan to verify the residency of Copperton’s citizens; and

F. WHEREAS, Section 10-8-83 of the Utah Code authorizes the Council to enact
ordinances, rules, and regulations “that are necessary and proper to ... promote the prosperity ...
peace and good order, comfort, and convenience of the [the metro township] and its inhabitants,”
among other things; and

G. WHEREAS, to assist Trans-Jordan in fulfilling its obligations under the
Agreement and the warranty deed and to limit future controversies and conflict over the right of
Copperton residents to dispose of waste at Trans-Jordan without cost, Trans-Jordan and the
Copperton Metro Township Council have developed a procedure by which the Council will issue
vouchers to Copperton residents entitling them to dispose of household solid waste at Trans-

Ordinance # 2017100 Page 1 of 9

Jordan; and

H. WHEREAS, the Council may issue multiple vouchers to each household, but each
voucher will entitle a Copperton resident to dispose of up to 600 pounds of household solid
waste and refuse per trip; and

I. WHEREAS, under this ordinance, the Council will verify the residency of
Copperton citizens and issue vouchers that will entitle Copperton residents to dispose of
household solid waste and refuse without any further determinations by Trans-Jordan regarding
an individual’s residency status; and

J. WHEREAS, individuals who are unable to provide Trans-Jordan with a voucher
will be either disallowed from dumping, or will be allowed to pay full landfill rates if they desire;
and

K. WHEREAS, it is the mutual understanding of the Council and Trans-Jordan that
they will implement this voucher procedure on a trial basis and will make changes, if necessary;
and

L. WHEREAS, the Council desires to enact an ordinance to set forth a uniform
procedure to govern how it will verify the residency of Copperton residents and issue vouchers;
and

M. WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the attached ordinance, which Copperton’s
legal counsel has prepared, and has determined that the ordinance will promote the prosperity,
peace and good order, comfort, and convenience of Copperton and its residents.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP AS FOLLOWS:

1. The Council finds that the attached ordinance will promote the prosperity, peace
and good order, comfort, and convenience of Copperton and its residents; and

2. The attached ordinance will take effect on January 1, 2018; and

3. The Council will review the attached ordinance as well as the overall voucher
procedure after one (1) year to determine if changes are needed.

[Signatures on following page]
Ordinance # 2017\1-4 Page 2 of 9

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah this
‘LO day of RMU 2017.
Ron Patrick, Council Chair

ATTEST:
\ . \ j Ob . : 2 Sho 4
Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township Recorder
VOTING
Council Member Bailey voting aed
Council Member Baxter voting AN ¥
Council Member Clayton voting AN Y
Council Member Patrick voting Nb
Council Member Stitzer voting la WU

Ordinance #2017-__- Page 3 of 9

Title 2 - COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
Chapter 2.02 - COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION OF TRANS-JORDAN LANDFILL
VOUCHERS
2.02-010 — Definitions
Whenever used in this Chapter:
“Agreement” means Article 7.4 of the Agreement dated December 14, 1993 between Kennecott
Utah Copper Corporation and Trans-Jordan’s predecessors in interest, which provides:

For so long as the Property shall be used as a landfill, Purchaser shall grant the

residents of the community of Copperton the right to dispose of solid household

waste and refuse upon the Property, in compliance with the rules and regulations

of the landfill, and the same will be handled and disposed of in the same manner

as materials brought upon the Property by Purchaser, all without cost to the

residents of the community of Copperton.
“Trans-Jordan” means the Trans-Jordan Landfill
2.02.020 Purpose

This ordinance is intended to govern the process by which the Council will determine the
residency of Copperton citizens for the purpose of issuing vouchers allowing them to dispose of
household solid waste at Trans-Jordan pursuant to the Agreement.
2.02-030 — Voucher(s) Required

Any individual seeking to dispose of household solid waste at Trans-Jordan without cost
pursuant to the Agreement must present a voucher issued pursuant to this ordinance at the Trans-
Jordan gatehouse. No other documentation will be accepted to establish residency for the
purposes of the Agreement. If an individual is unable to present a voucher, Trans-Jordan may
disallow the individual from dumping, or allow the individual to dump the waste by paying
regular landfill rates. Vouchers will be surrendered upon redemption at the Trans-Jordan
scalehouse.
2.02.040 — Household Solid Waste Only

Ordinance #2017-___- Page 4 of 9

A. Limitation: Under the Agreement, Copperton residents may only dispose of solid
household waste at Trans-Jordan without cost.

B. Definition: For the purposes of this ordinance, household waste means waste that
is household in nature and originates from Copperton residences, and not from a commercial
business or other enterprise, whether based in Copperton or elsewhere. Household waste also
does not include the following, which are excluded from the voucher program and subject to
Trans-Jordan’s standard rules, regulations, and fees, where applicable:

1. Household Hazardous Waste is always accepted by Trans-Jordan free of
charge and must be separated from a disposal load of household waste;

2. Electronic Recycling (E-Waste) is always accepted free of charge by Trans-
Jordan;

3. Tire Disposal;

4. Freon Extraction (e.g., refrigerators, freezers, and portable air conditioning
units); and

5. Mattresses — up to three mattresses may be disposed of for free under the
voucher program. A per mattress surcharge will apply to mattresses above three
mattresses.

6. Household Recycling — (i.e. plastic containers, cardboard, paper, steel and
aluminum cans, and glass) is always accepted by Trans-Jordan free of charge for
placement into recycling bins.

2.02.050 — Voucher Administrator

A. Appointment: Each year, the Council will appoint two of its members to serve as
a Voucher Administrator and Assistant Voucher Administrator to carry out the responsibilities
authorized in this Chapter in consultation with the Council.

B. Responsibilities: In addition to the other responsibilities authorized in this
Chapter, the Voucher Administrator will:

1. Bear primary responsibility for carrying out the responsibilities authorized in
this Chapter, provided that the Voucher Administrator may delegate such
responsibilities to the Assistant Voucher as the Voucher Administrator deems
appropriate.

2. Keep the Council reasonably informed of any problems or other issues
associated with this ordinance, providing at least quarterly reports to the Council on
the operation of this ordinance; and

Ordinance #2017-_—- Page Sof 9

3. Actas the Council’s liaison with Trans-Jordan for the purposes of this
ordinance, which will include, at a minimum:
a. Keeping the Trans-Jordan Executive Director appraised of the
Voucher Administrator’s current telephone number and email address;
b. Receive feedback and reports of incidents involving possible
| violations of this ordinance from the Trans-Jordan Executive Director (or
| authorized Trans-Jordan representative), and investigate such incidents as may
be necessary, and
c. Request vouchers from Trans-Jordan, as needed.
2.02.060 — Verifying Residency

A. Documents Needed to Establish Residency: Except as otherwise provided, the
Voucher Administrator will issue a voucher(s) to any individual who provides any two of the
following documents, which must include the individual’s name and list their address as either
“Copperton” or “Bingham Canyon,” Utah:

1. A valid, unexpired Utah driver’s license, U.S. passport, or U.S. passport card
(only one of these documents will be accepted);

2. A Bank statement (dated within 60 days);

3. Court documents (issued within last year);

4. A major credit card bill (dated within 60 days);

5. Property tax notice (statement or receipt dated within one year);

6. School transcript (dated within 90 days); or

7. Utility bill (billing date within 60 days).

B. Alternative Process for Establishing Residency: If an individual is unable to
provide the documents listed in Article 2(C), the Voucher Administrator will make a reasonable
effort to consider other documentation or information to verify the individual’s residency status
and exercise their best judgment to determine whether or not the individual qualifies as a
Copperton resident for the purposes of this ordinance.

C. Determination of Non-Residency: If the Voucher Administrator declines to issue
a voucher for failure to establish residency, they must provide the individual with a written
explanation of the reasons for the determination.

Ordinance # 2017-____ Page 6 of 9

2.02.070 — Vouchers
A. Weight Limit: A voucher will entitle its holder to dispose of up to 600 pounds of
household waste per trip without cost at Trans-Jordan. Residents may request multiple vouchers,
provided that residents will only be able to use one voucher per trip.
B. Form: Each voucher issued will be in substantially the following form:
y V rT bel \| |
| LE Wit wiv |
: Valid for Copperton Residents Only
Voucher Example - ;
Front Expires December 31, 2018
Use this voucher for one (1) load of waste, up to 600 /bs, (equivalent of one pickup
truck or pickup truck sized trailer) for disposal at Trans-Jordan Landfill.
One voucher per load or transaction.
Voucher #000
KANS-TORDAN . :
G Zh ie) DAN Landfill Location: 10473 S. Bacchus Hwy (U-111)
wwe Landfill Hours: Monday—Saturday 7:00 a.m.—6:00 p.m. Office mse ony
aes See Reverse Side For User Rules and Responsibilities
VOUCHER USE—RULES & RESPONSIBILITES
* All loads must be fully tarped and secured or voucher will be invalidated and a double fee will apply.
* Voucher only valid on disposal loads, not valid on purchase of preduct (i.e, compost & woadchips)
¢ = Loads must originate from the user’s personal residence (within Copperton) and be accompanied by this voucher,
¢ User must follow instructions given by landfill personnel and abide by all landfill rules.
¢ All vouchers are numbered and will be tracked and voided upon redemption. V I E ]
¢ Vouchers are issued one per Copperton household and are non-transierrable oucher Example -
¢ — Loads not accompanied by a voucher will be charged at regular rates. Back
© No copies or facsimiles sre permitted,
LANDFILL RATES & SERVICES
Copperton residents should be aware that some special wastes require additional handling and
are not inchided in the voucher program, The most common of these wastes ave listed below.
Call ou scalehouse at 801-569-8994 ifyou have additional questions,
¢ = Disposal Rates:
Crash—$30 per ton with an $10 mininyum Greenwaste—S 12 per ton wilh a $6 minimum
© Residential Wouschold Hazardous Waste (HW) is necepted free of charge. Must be separated from disposal load
© Residential Electronic Recycling (E-serap) is accepted tree of charge.
© Residential Tire Disposal: $2.00 off the rim and $3 on the rim with a maximum of 4 lires per resident.
© Residential Freon Extraction; Residential units (e.g. redrigerators. freezers & portable a/e units) will be charged
$12 per unit.
© Residential Mattresses: $15 surcharge per mattress applies for more than three mattresses.
Rates & Services Subject to Change without Notice
Ordinance # 2017- Page 7 of 9

C, Requests for Vouchers:

1. Each Voucher Administrator designated by the Board will develop the process
and manner by which residents may request vouchers, subject the Council’s review
and approval of said process.

2. Except as otherwise provided herein, a resident who satisfies the requirements
of Article 3 may request two (2) vouchers per month. The Voucher Administrator will
consider requests for vouchers in excess of this amount on a case-by-case basis.

C. Ledger: The Voucher Administrator will maintain a ledger that will include the
name, address, and serial number of each voucher issued to a resident, as well as a signed
acknowledgement by the resident that failure to abide by these terms and conditions may result
in the revocation of a voucher(s) or the refusal of the Voucher Administrator and the Council to
issue further vouchers. The form of the ledger entries will be substantially as follows:

Entry Number

Voucher Number

Resident Name:

Resident Address:

Date Issued:

Acknowledgment: By receiving and accepting this voucher I agree to abide by all

terms and conditions contained on the voucher. I further acknowledge that failure

to abide by these terms and conditions and discourteous treatment of Trans-Jordan

personnel may result in the revocation of this voucher and any other voucher(s)

issued in my name.

Signed and acknowledged _ this day of , 20, by

D. Revocation: If the Voucher Administrator receives a complaint from Trans-Jordan
associated with a resident as identified by a specific voucher number, the Voucher Administrator
will exercise due diligence to investigate the complaint. If the Voucher Administrator determines
that the resident has violated the terms of this ordinance, the Voucher Administrator may, in their
discretion, may issue a written warning, revoke any voucher(s) issued to the resident, and/or
refuse to issue additional vouchers until such time as the resident as demonstrated to the Voucher
Administrator that they are willing and capable of complying with this ordinance and the terms
and conditions of the voucher. If the Voucher Administrator revokes a voucher(s), they must

Ordinance #2017-___- Page 8 of 9

provide written notice to:
1. The resident in a manner that explains that reasons for the revocation; and
2. Trans-Jordan’s Executive Director in a manner that identifies the affected
voucher numbers.
2.02.080 — Appeals
Residents may appeal any decision by the Voucher Administrator, written or verbal, to
the Council within ten (10) days, provided that the appeal is made in writing to the Council
Chair. The Council will review such appeals at its next regularly scheduled meeting and, by
majority vote, may affirm, amend, reverse, or take any other action it deems appropriate with
respect to a decision made by the Voucher Administrator under this ordinance.
2.02.090 — Annual Review
The Council will review this Chapter on an annual basis to determine if changes are
needed.
Ordinance #2017-____ Page 9 of 9

MEMBER CITIES TRAN Ss ORDAN
DRAPER MIDVALE MURRAY RIVERTON SANDY SOUTH JORDAN WEST JORDAN Resellers “Aaa
a
ue
ee
Mailing:
December 18, 2017 PO Box 95610
South Jordan UT 84095-0610
Shipping:
10473 S Bacchus Hwy (U-111)
Mr. Nathan Bracken, Counsel South Jordan UT 84009-6002
Copperton Metro Township ;
c/o Smith Hartvigsen PLLC phone: SolLatn wg
257 E. 200 South, Suite 500 semuy trannsiow dens ore
Salt Lake City, UT 84111 HANSJOPEAN OF"
- Sent Via Email —
Dear Mr. Bracken & Members of Copperton Metro Township Council:
Trans-Jordan Cities is obligated by our land contract with Kennecott Utah Copper to provide household
waste disposal at no cost to the residents of City of Copperton (‘the City”). In managing this obligation
over the years, we had reached a point where the numerous problems with fulfilling our obligation were
negatively affecting our facility and staff as well as our relationship with many residents of the City.
| am pleased that the City has engaged in formalizing a process of issuing vouchers through creation of
a City Ordinance. The Ordinance describes a process by which residents may receive a voucher from
an administrator, who screens the request and issues voucher. This takes the management and
verification burden away from the Trans-Jordan Scalehouse staff and places it with the City, while
maintaining a process that is fair and equitable to the residents of Copperton who wish to dispose of
their household waste.
Trans-Jordan Cities endorses and will support the Ordinance developed by the City. We have agreed
to the conditions of the ordinance, and will work with the City to provide feedback as the program
becomes established so that we can continually improve the ease of transaction while providing the
service to the residents of Copperton.
| will remain personally involved with the oversight of this program on behalf of the Landfill, so please
feel free to call or email me with any questions or comments you may have.
Sincerely,
TRANS-JORDAN CITIES
Mark Hooyer
Executive Director
