                          COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                                ORDINANCE# 2018-0 \- 07-
                                  January 17, 2018

 APPROVING THE MASTER INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GREATER
 SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT, SALT LAKE COUNTY, COPPERTON
 METRO TOWNSHIP, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP, KEARNS METRO
  TOWNSHIP, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP, AND WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP
      FOR MUNICIPAL, ADMINISTRATIVE, AND OPERATIONAL SERVICES

BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Copperton Metro Township Council held a
regular public meeting on January 17, 2018.

        WHEREAS, the Copperton Metro Township ("Copperton") is a metro township and
political subdivision of the State of Utah; and

        WHEREAS, Salt Lake County ("County") created the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
Services District ("MSD") to provide specified municipal services to residents of Copperton, the
four other metro townships served by the MSD, and unincorporated areas of the County; and

        WHEREAS, the MSD provides the following services to Copperton and the four other
metro townships: (1) road and street construction and maintenance; (2) animal control; (3)
planning and development; (4) municipal parks maintenance; and (5) other related administrative
services and capital projects (collectively "Municipal Services"); and

        WHEREAS, on February 9, 2016, the MSD and the County entered into a one-year
renewable interlocal agreement ("Initial Agreement"), whereby the County contracted to
provide certain personnel and other administrative services (collectively "Administrative
Services") that the County previously provided for unincorporated areas, including Copperton
and the other four metro townships; and

        WHEREAS, in 2015, the Utah Legislature enacted UTAHCODEANN. § 10-3c-203 (SB
199), which assigned various county officials and staff the authority and responsibility to serve
as the treasurer, recorder, clerk, surveyor, engineer, and auditor of Copperton and the four other
metro townships, and to provide budgeting and accounting services for all five metro townships
(collectively "Operational Services"); and

       WHEREAS, on November 15, 2017, the Copperton Metro Township Council reviewed
and approved as to form a draft version of a Master Services Interlocal Agreement
("Agreement") to supersede and replace the Initial Agreement and to address the provision of
funding, budgeting, and accounting needed for the MSD to pay the County for the Municipal,




                                                                Ordinance# 2018-03 Page 1 of3
Administrative, and Operational Services the County provides to the District, all five metro
townships, and the areas of unincorporated County served by the MSD; and

       WHEREAS, the MSD Board approved the Agreement on December 13, 2017, with
modifications to sections 2.4 and 3.1 to include further recognition of all five metro townships'
independent decision-making authority regarding policy matters; and

       WHEREAS, the Copperton Metro Township Council has reviewed the Agreement with
the MSD's changes to section 2.4 and 3.1 and has determined that providing final approval for
the Agreement, as amended, is in the best interests of Copperton and its residents.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED as follows:

       1.      That the Master Services Interlocal Agreement, as amended and attached hereto,
is hereby adopted effective immediately.

      ADOPTED AND APPROVED by maJonty vote at a duly called meeting of the
Copperton Metro Township Council on January 17, 2018.

                                                    COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL




ATTEST :

";;/4L      Ne- •
Sherrie Swensen
                    :   ,2 ~~
                            UJ

Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township/Recorder

VOTING

Council Member Bailey voting         Yea

Council Member Clayton voting        Yea

Council Member Patrick voting        Yea

Council Member Pazell voting         Yea

Council Member Severson voting       Yea
                    MASTER INTERLOCAL AGREEMENT
                               BETWEEN
   GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL SERVICES DISTRICT, SALT LAKE COUNTY,
   COPPER TON METRO TOWNSHIP, EMIGRATION CANYON METRO TOWNSHIP,
           KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP, MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP,
                  AND WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP FOR
         MUNICIPAL, ADMINISTRATIVE, AND OPERATIONAL SERVICES


       THIS MASTER SERVICES AGREEMENT (the "Agreement" or "Master Services

Agreement") is made and entered into by and between THE GREATERSALTLAKEMUNICIPAL

SERVICESDISTRICT,a local district and political subdivision of the state of Utah ("District"),

SALTLAKECOUNTY,a body corporate and politic and a political subdivision of the state of Utah

("County"), COPPERTONMETROTOWNSHIP,a municipal corporation ("Copperton"),

EMIGRATIONCANYONMETROTOWNSHIP,a municipal corporation, ("Emigration"), KEARNS

METROTOWNSHIP,a municipal corporation ("Keams"), MAGNAMETROTOWNSHIP,a municipal

corporation ("Magna"), and WHITECITY METROTOWNSHIP,a municipal corporation (White

City). Each metro township and the County, through its representation of unincorporated

County, may be referred to separately, or collectively as "District Members" or "Members".

Metro Townships (not including unincorporated County) may be referred to as "District Member

Metros" or "Member Metros". The District, the County, Copperton, Emigration, Keams, Magna,

and White City may be referred to individually as a "Party" and collectively as the "Parties."

                                            RECITALS

       A.      On January 13, 2015, the County created the District by resolution setting forth

boundaries as a municipal services district pursuant to the MUNICIPALSERVICESDISTRICTACT,

UTAHCODEANN. § l 7B-2a-1101 et seq. (the "Act"). The District is authorized to exercise all

rights, powers, duties, and responsibilities of a municipal services district as provided by law .

The District was created to provide specified municipal services to residents of unincorporated
areas of the County and to those metro townships, cities, and towns that might choose to be part

of the District or to contract with the District for the provision of services. These services include

(1) road and street construction and maintenance; (2) animal control; (3) planning and

development; and (4) municipal parks maintenance; along with related administrative services

and Capital Projects (collectively "Municipal Services").

       B.      On February 9, 2016, the District and the County entered into a one year

renewable interlocal agreement ("Initial Agreement") whereby the County contracted to provide

personnel, services and assets, and to perform specified municipal and other services on behalf of

the District that were previously provided by the County for unincorporated areas including

townships. Other services included the provision of specified administrative and related services

such as Office of Township Services and use of County assets, etc. ("Administrative Services").

The Initial Agreement was renewed by letter dated September 22, 2016.

       C.      During the 2015 general election, residents of various townships in

unincorporated areas in Salt Lake County voted to incorporate. Residents of Millcreek elected to

become a city while residents of the following township areas voted to become metro townships:

Copperton, Emigration Canyon, Keams, Magna, and White City. Millcreek and all five (5)

metro townships were incorporated on or before January I, 2017. Under the Initial Agreement,

Millcreek and District Members received Municipal Services. Effective June 30, 2017, Millcreek

withdrew from the District.

        D.     In 2015, the Utah Legislature enacted UTAHCODEANN. § I 0-3c-203 (SB 199)

which assigns to various county officials and staff the authority and responsibility to fulfill the

duties of the treasurer, recorder, clerk, surveyor, engineer, and auditor of each metro township,

and to provide budgeting and accounting services for all metro townships. The district attorney



                                                  2
of the county in which a metro township is located may provide legal counsel to the metro

township as the county and metro township agree. The County further agrees to provide Justice

Court services and Prosecution services for Class Band C misdemeanors and infractions, and to

arrange for provision of Indigent Defense services in the Justice Court. Collectively, the services

and functions to be performed by the County that are the subject of this recital are referred to as

"Operational Services".

       E.      Pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act, UTAH CODEANN. § 11-13-101 et seq .

(the "Interlocal Cooperation Act"), the County, the District, and all District Member Metros are

authorized to enter into this Agreement.

       F.      This Master Services Agreement addresses the provision of funding, budgeting

and accounting necessary to enable the District to pay full costs to the County for Municipal,

Administrative and Operational Services to the District, the five (5) metro townships and

unincorporated County. Subject to available funding, the Parties intend that the personnel,

services, and assets to be provided by the County will be provided on an actual cost basis, and

the Parties agree that such actual cost basis is reasonable, fair and adequate compensation to the

County for providing such personnel, assets and services.

       G.      The Parties enter into this Master Services Agreement to describe and delineate

the scope of their mutual cooperation and commitment, and to identify Municipal,

Administrative and Operational Services levels agreed to by the Parties. This Agreement

supersedes and replaces the Initial Agreement between the District and the County.

       NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises of the

Parties, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are

hereby acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:



                                                  3
                                        ARTICLE I
                                   COUNTY COMMITMENT

       1.1 COUNTY SERVICES

       Effective upon execution of this Agreement, the County shall furnish Municipal,

Administrative and Operational Services as defined below, including assets and personnel as set

forth in this Agreement to the District and to District Members for the term of this Agreement,

including extensions and renewals thereof, and as set forth in Attachments "A" through "F", all

of which are incorporated by reference and made a part of this Agreement (at times referenced

herein individually as an "Attachment" or collectively as the "Attachments").

               MUNICIPAL SERVICES

               A.     ROADANDSTREETCONSTRUCTION
                                              ANDMAINTENANCE
                                                           SERVICES.The

               County agrees to provide road and street construction and maintenance services,

               including roadway and infrastructure engineering, to the District for the benefit of

               its Members including, but not limited to, design, construction, repair, curb,

               gutter, sidewalk, street lighting, traffic control lights and signage, striping, snow

               removal, and local storm drain construction and maintenance. The provision of

               these services shall include the use of County personnel, equipment, buildings,

               supplies, assets, and other County resources. The road and street construction and

               maintenance services, budget and overhead (accounting) to be provided are more

               fully delineated in Attachment "A" and the related engineering services are in

               Attachment "A-1"

               B.      ANIMALCONTROL.The County agrees to provide animal control services

               to the District for the benefit of its Members. The provision of these services


                                                  4
shall include the use of County personnel, equipment, buildings, supplies, assets,

and other County resources. The animal control services, budget and overhead

(accounting) are more fully delineated in Attachment "B".

C.     PLANNrNGANDDEVELOPMENT.
                             The County agrees to provide planning

and development services to the District for the benefit of its Members,

specifically including planning and development staff services. These services

shall also include business licensing, building inspection, and code violation

enforcement. The provision of these services shall include the use of County

personnel, equipment , buildings, supplies, assets, and other County resources. The

business and land use development services, budget and overhead (accounting) to

be provided are more fully delineated in Attachment "C".

D.     MUNICIPALPARKS. The County agrees to provide municipal parks

services to the District for the benefit of its Members, including maintenance of

metro parks. The provision of these services shall include the use of County

personnel, equipment, buildings, supplies, assets, and other County resources.

The municipal parks services, budget and overhead (accounting) to be provided

are more fully delineated in Attachment "D".

E.     CAPITALPROJECTS. The County agrees to provide capital projects as

directed by the District on behalf of its Members as identified in the County's

budget and as provided for in the District's budget. All capital projects completed

by or for the County shall be delivered to the District "turnkey", fully complete,

inspected, approved and paid for by the County and ready for operation. Upon

completion of each such capital project, the County shall be responsible for the



                                  5
operation and maintenance of the same as part of the appropriate Service to which

the capital project relates.

ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES

F.      ADMINISTRATIVE
                    SERVICES.The County agrees to provide Administrative

and support services to the District and to its Members, where applicable,

including revenue collection services; financial accounting, bookkeeping and

reporting (clerk) services; budgeting, treasurer services; purchasing

(procurement); human resources; information services; community liaison and

engagement; economic development; administration and management of project

areas created by the Redevelopment Agency of Salt Lake County as authorized by

interlocal agreement between the County and the Redevelopment Agency; and

similar services. The provision of these services shall include the use of County

personnel, equipment, buildings, supplies, assets, and other County resources. The

provision of community reinvestment initiatives for new or proposed community

reinvestment project areas may be established through separate interlocal

agreements executed between the Redevelopment Agency of Salt Lake County

and each District Member Metro. Administrative Services are delineated in

Attachment "E".

OPERATIONAL SERVICES

G.      OPERATIONAL
                  SERVICES.The County will provide Operational Services to

District Member Metros, as provided by law and as otherwise agreed herein,

and/or in one or more separate agreements, including budgeting and accounting

services, treasurer services, clerk and recorder services, surveyor services, auditor



                                  6
               services, and engineering services. The provision of legal services by the Salt

               Lake County District Attorney's office shall be established through separate

               interlocal agreements executed between the County and each District Member

               Metro consistent with this Agreement and in full compliance with Utah Rules of

               Professional Conduct. The County further agrees to provide Justice Court services

               and Prosecution services for Class B and C misdemeanors and infractions, and to

               arrange for provision of Indigent Defense services in the Justice Court. The

               provision of these Operational Services shall include the use of County personnel,

               equipment, buildings, supplies, assets, and other County resources. The

               Operational Services are delineated in Attachment "F".

       SERVICES NOT COVERED BY THIS MASTER AGREEMENT

       It is expressly understood and agreed by the Parties that police and fire services are

provided by the Salt Lake Valley Law Enforcement Service Area (SLVLESA) through the

United Police Authority (UPD), by Valley Emergency Communications, and by the Unified Fire

Service Area (UFSA) through the Unified Fire Authority (UFA) respectively. Notwithstanding,

County will work cooperatively with public safety partners to provide the best public safety

response possible to District Member Metros. Waste and recycling services will be provided by

Wasatch Front Waste and Recycling District (WFWRD).

       1.2.   SCOPE

       The County shall perform the Services in a professional, reasonable and responsive

manner in compliance with all applicable laws, ordinances and regulations (including but not

limited to all applicable environmental and safety regulations) and consistent with the agreement

of the Parties, and such other applicable requirements and standards of performance.



                                                 7
       Subject to the foregoing, the exact nature of how the Services are to be provided, the

discipline of personnel, the maintenance of County assets and any other matters incidental to

providing the Services shall remain with the County in its sole discretion after consultation with

the District and/or the impacted Member Metro. Subject to paragraphs 5.1 and 5.2 of this

Agreement, the Parties further agree to acknowledge in writing prior to the end of each calendar

year during the term of this Agreement, which Services will continue to be provided by the

County for an additional calendar year and which Services will be discontinued upon expiration

of the then current calendar year. In addition, each of the Services covered by this Agreement

may be modified or extended with a minimum of ninety (90) days advance notice, provided that

the Parties reach written agreement on the particulars of the modification, cancellation, or

extension. Furthermore, it is the intention of the Parties that the provision of the Services

hereunder and the contracting of the relevant County personnel may, at some point in time,

transition away from the County to the District or to an interlocal cooperation entity created by

the County and the District, possibly in conjunction with one or more municipalities. Such

complete or partial transition will occur when the Parties agree to the transition and shall be upon

such terms and conditions as the Parties may agree to at that time, and such transition shall not

be subject to the termination requirements and deadlines otherwise set forth herein.

        1.3.   COUNTY ASSETS

       As provided herein, the provision of Services shall include the use of all County

equipment, buildings, supplies, assets (including vehicles), and other resources (the "Buildings

and Assets") necessary to provide the Services. The County shall at all times retain management

authority and control over its buildings and assets. The responsibility to insure, maintain, and

repair the buildings and assets shall at all times remain obligations solely of the County. The



                                                  8
cost to the District for the use of the buildings and assets shall be incorporated in and included as

part of the District's budget as mutually agreed by the County and the District.

        1.4    INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS.

       The relationship of the County, and of any County employee, with the District under this

Agreement shall be that of an independent contractor. The County has the entire responsibility

to discharge all of the obligations of an independent contractor under federal, state, and local

laws, including, but not limited to, those obligations relating to employee supervision, benefits

and wages, taxes, unemployment compensation and insurance, social security, worker's

compensation, and disability pensions and tax withholdings, including the filing of all returns

and reports and the payment of all taxes, assessments and contributions, and other sums required

of an independent contractor. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed to create

the relationship between the District and the County, or the County's employees, of employer

and employee, partners, or parties to a joint venture. Should the District or District Member

Metro have any criticism, concern, or recommendation regarding any County employee,

specifically or generally, the District or a Member Metro may raise it directly with the head of

the County department or division under which the employee operates. The County shall

diligently and appropriately address an issue raised by the District or District Member Metro and

report back to the District or District Member Metro, as appropriate.

       The relationship of the County, and of any County employee with each District Member

Metro under this Agreement for the provision of Operational Services shall be defined by statute

or by separate interlocal agreement in the case of legal services, or as otherwise provided herein.

For all other services, the relationship of the County, and of any County employee with each




                                                  9
District Member, excluding unincorporated County, shall be that of an independent contractor

consistent with the above paragraph.

       In performing the Services, the County shall furnish and supply all necessary labor,

supervision, equipment communication facilities, uniforms, badges, and other items necessary

and incident to the provision of the subject Service in compliance with the requirements of the

law, including the Americans with Disabilities Act, and all rules and regulations adopted or

promulgated in furtherance thereof, as understood by the County. As provided herein, the

Services shall be provided and supervised by County employees. County employees shall

remain County employees for all legal purposes, including salary, rights, and benefits , and shall

retain their respective seniority, merit status, and all other conditions of County employment

except as otherwise provided in a separate agreement.

        1.5    REPORTS AND NOTICE OF PERFORMANCE.                      The County shall provide the

following reports and notices:

               A.      MONTHLYREPORTS.On a monthly basis, the County shall provide the

               District General Manager, District Board, and each District Member Metro, a

               summary budget update for the District and District Member Metro based on

               available information in form and content agreeable to the District General

               Manager, the District Member Metro and the County.

               B.      QUARTERLY
                               REPORTS. On a fiscal quarter basis, the County shall provide

               to the District a written report that includes a list of all District expenditures for

               each category of Service outlined in section 1.l(A-G) of this Agreement, based on

               available information and in form and content agreeable to the District General

               Manager, the District Member Metro and the County.



                                                  10
C.     ANNUALREPORT. Annually, the County shall provide an unaudited report

for each category of Services outlined in section 1.1(A-G) of this Agreement, and

present such report to the District at a regularly scheduled meeting of the

District's governing body held during the month of March. The annual report

shall summarize the information from the quarterly reports, demonstrate the

performance level of the County over the previous year, and demonstrate that the

County has complied with all of its obligations under this Agreement.

Performance and emphasis goals will be presented and discussed for the

following year during the term of this Agreement. The audited report will be

provided when it becomes available, but not later than August 31.

D.     PERFORMANCE
                 REPORTS. The County will provide upon request a general

performance report or update to the District and its Member Metros in form and

content agreeable to the District General Manager, the District Member Metro and

the County, regarding Services generally or regarding a specified Service,

including road and construction maintenance, animal control, planning and

development, and parks.

E.     COMPLAINTS
                ANDEXCEPTIONAL
                             BEHAVIOR. Except for emergencies, all

complaints regarding Services listed in Section 1.1(A-G) shall be referred to the

County and the County shall be responsible for resolution of such complaints in

consultation with the District and/or District Member Metros as appropriate. On a

regular basis, the County shall provide to the District copies of any written

complaint(s) received regarding the Services. The County need not provide such

information if the County reasonably deems such notice to be a violation of any



                                  11
      merit provision or any applicable privacy law, or that such notice would

      jeopardize any ongoing investigation or the safety of any person.

      Notwithstanding, it may be shared with the District and District Member Metros

      upon request if appropriate restrictions are put into place, such as redacted

      complaints and related information, with private, controlled or protected

      information deleted. Further, the County shall provide to the District copies of any

      written documents demonstrating commendable behavior regarding the provision

      of any Service. These documents may be used by the District to help measure the

      performance of the County in fulfilling its obligations under this Agreement.

      F.     SERVICEEMERGENCIES.Municipal Service complaints that are of an

      emergency nature or requests for municipal services identified above in Section

      1.1(A-E) shall be resolved by the County division or department providing the

      subject service in accordance with standards employed by a modern, well

      equipped division or department.

      G.     ADDITIONAL
                      DISCLOSURE
                               ANDPOLICYDEVELOPMENT.From time to

      time, the County shall, upon request of the District Board or District General

      Manager, provide to the District Board and District General Manager private,

      controlled or protected information under the provisions of the Government

      Records Access and Management Act. The Parties agree to jointly develop and

      implement a policy for communicating and safeguarding such information.

1.6   COORDINATION




                                         12
       County agrees to cooperate, communicate and work closely with the District General

Manager and District Member Metros to ensure the timely performance of the Services as

provided herein, including follow up with all Parties as the need may require or as requested.

                                         ARTICLE II
                                   DISTRICT COMMITMENT

       2.1     POLICY.

       Subject to available funding and resources, the Parties acknowledge and agree that, after

considering input from District Members, the District shall retain final decision-making authority

with regard to the type, scope, priority and quality of the Municipal Services provided under this

Agreement, provided, however, that the District will pay to the County not less than the

minimum amount required for the budgeted level of service consistent with each of the

Attachments to this Agreement.

       2.2     BUDGETING AND ACCOUNTING.

       The Parties agree that the District shall be responsible for funding all costs associated

with the Municipal, Administrative and Operational Services identified herein as well as funding

for each Member's budget. Each year the District's budget will be prepared, reviewed and

approved with input from its Member Metros and the County based upon reasonably anticipated

needs of the District and each of its Members. The budgeting process will comply with

applicable statutes and generally accepted fiscal procedures.

       2.3     SERVICE COSTS

       Subject to available funding, the minimum contract amount to be paid for any Service, as

set forth in the District budget, which, under generally acceptable fiscal practices, will

necessarily include a fund balance, is based on actual County costs to purchase, own, operate and

maintain the equipment and materials and to employ the personnel necessary to provide the


                                                  13
budgeted level of the Service. The District agrees to pay County the budgeted contract amount

identified by the District Budget to cover these base costs less offsets for income attributable to

the subject Services received by the District and its Members. Actual costs, including prorated

minimum contract amounts and costs for Services requested by the District in excess of the

minimum, will be billed to the District monthly.

         The Parties agree to cooperate with each other to bring costs in line with estimated

budgeted amounts. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the District shall reimburse the

County for actual full costs of the work performed, including labor, equipment, materials and

indirect costs, as outlined in this Agreement.

         2.4    CHANGES IN LEVEL OF SERVICE.              The District may modify (increase or

decrease) the level of any specified Municipal or related Administrative Service or accelerate the

timing of any component of the same if the District provides at least ninety (90) days prior

written notice to the County of such change and, in the event of an increase, the County approves

such change or modification and a modified rate schedule. The County shall use its best efforts

to provide any increase in a Service requested by the District. The amount due for such increase

or decrease shall be agreed to by the Parties in good faith and shall accrue as of the date the

modified Service becomes effective and shall be due and payable as provided in Article IV

below.

         2.5    COORDINATION

         The District's General Manager agrees to cooperate, communicate and work closely with

District Member Metro chairs and County representatives to facilitate the performance of the

Services herein, including timely follow up with all Parties as need may require.

                                      ARTICLE III
                               MEMBER METRO COMMITMENT


                                                   14
       3.1     ORDINANCES AND POLICIES.

       To facilitate the provision of Services herein, and recognizing the County's reliance on

applicable local laws and regulations in the performance of those Services, each Member Metro

agrees to provide County representatives with copies of current resolutions, ordinances, rules and

regulations that pertain to the Services identified herein as well as provide timely amendments

and updates to resolutions, ordinances, rules and regulations. Each Member Metro shall retain its

respective policy decision-making power and authority with regard to enacting municipal

ordinances, land use regulations, and other police powers as provided pursuant to law.

       3.2     BUDGETING AND ACCOUNTING

       Each Member Metro agrees that the District shall be responsible for funding all costs

associated with the Municipal, Administrative and Operational Services, as well as Member

Metro specific budgets as provided herein. Member Metro specific budgets will be for

administrative costs associated with specific Member Metro needs, e.g., office equipment,

supplies, legal services other than by interlocal agreement with the County District Attorney's

Office, etc. Member Metro budgets shall be set by their respective councils with assistance by

County staff and administered as an Operational Service by County staff as outlined by the

Uniform Fiscal Procedure Act for Utah Cities (See, UTAH CODEANN. § 10-6-101 et seq.).

Member Metros will provide timely input to the District's General Manager, not less than

annually and more often as appropriate, regarding the District's budget to address the type, scope

and priority of Municipal Services anticipated to meet the reasonable municipal service needs of

each Member Metro.

       The Parties agree to cooperate with each other to bring costs in line with estimated

budgeted amounts. Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the District shall reimburse the



                                                15
County for the total actual costs of the work performed , including labor, equipment, materials

and indirect costs for all Municipal, Administrative, and Operational Services, as outlined in this

Agreement.

       3.3     OPERATIONAL SERVICES.

       Operational Services to Member Metros are defined by statute. Member Metros

recognize these services will be performed by County officials and employees who remain

subject to County ordinances, policies, rules and regulations. Such services shall be provided and

supervised by County employees who shall remain County employees for all legal purposes ,

including salary, rights, and benefits, and shall retain their respective seniority, merit status, and

all other conditions of County employment. Costs associated with Operational Services will be

provided on an actual cost basis as required by law, and the Parties agree that such actual cost

basis is reasonable, fair and adequate compensation to the County for providing such personnel,

assets and services. The Operational Services budget will include a fund balance consistent with

generally accepted fiscal procedures. Member Metros shall retain final decision-making

authority with regard to the level and scope of Operational Services provided under this

Agreement consistent with statutory guidelines, provided, however, that subject to budgeted

levels of service and available funding, the District will reimburse to the County not less than

actual full costs as provided by law.

        3.4    COORDINATION

        Member Metros agree to cooperate, communicate and work closely with the District

General Manager and County representatives to facilitate the performance of the Services herein ,

including timely follow up with all Parties as need may require.

                                            ARTICLE IV
                                             FUNDING


                                                  16
          4.1    FUNDING SOURCES

          As authorized pursuant to UTAHCODEANN. § l 7B-2a- l l 09, a county, or, subject to

Section l 7B-2a-1108, a municipality (including cites and metro townships) involved in the

establishment and operation of a municipal services district may fund the operation and

maintenance of the district through the sharing of sales tax revenue for district purposes. In

addition, the District shall, through use of County revenue collection services and upon final

approval by each District Member Metro, collect on behalf of the Member Metro all fines, fees,

charges, levies and other payments, that may be imposed by the District or District Member

Metros necessarily required for the Services to be performed. See, UTAHCODEANN.§ 10-3c-

205. As authorized by law and upon District Board approval, the District may at a later date levy

and impose a property tax. To the maximum extent authorized by law and as expressly provided

by UTAHCODEANN. § 11-13-215, the Parties agree to share their taxes and other revenues with

every other Party herein, except as such tax or other revenue may be expressly restricted by law,

to fund Municipal, Administrative and Operational Services consistent with the terms and

conditions of this Agreement. The sustainability of this Agreement is contingent upon the

continuing receipt and sharing of Sales Tax Revenues and all fines, fees, charges, levies or other

payments and assessments that may be imposed and other revenues authorized by the District,

District Member Metros or the County that are associated with the Services to be provided

herein.

          4.2   SALE AND USE TAX

          All Sales Tax Revenues from the District service area shall be collected, distributed and

accounted for by the County for the District and its Members as soon as practicable, whether

through operation of law or by agreement herein and whether imposed by District Member. The


                                                  17
Parties agree that the collection and remission of Sales Tax Revenues from the District service

area to the District shall continue unabated notwithstanding the transition from unincorporated

County to District Member Metros or transitioning away from County services.

       4.3     CLASS B AND C ROADS ACCOUNT REVENUES

       Pursuant to UTAHCODEANN. § l 7B-2a-l I 08 (2017) and §72-2-108, and as otherwise

provided by law, transportation funds equal to the amount of class B and class C road miles

within District Members shall be collected, distributed and accounted for on behalf of the

District and its Members, by the County to fund the provision of Services herein.

       4.4     CABLE FRANCHISE FEES.

       All cable franchise fee revenue arising from the District service area shall be collected,

distributed and accounted for by the County for and on behalf of the District and its Members, to

fund the provision of Services herein.

       4.5     FEES AND CHARGES

       The County shall collect, on behalf of the District and its Members, all fees and charges

established by each Member or by the District for the Services performed by the County. The

County shall retain all such fees and charges and provide an offset for the same in accordance

with section 2.3 of this Agreement, where the County agrees to provide an offset for income

attributable to the subject Services received by the District and its Members. To the extent

necessary, the District and District Member Metros authorize the County to pursue the efficient

collection and enforcement of all fees, assessments, and fines within the District service area for

services provided by the County. District Members shall maintain in effect valid fee ordinances

for Municipal Services, including road and street construction and maintenance services,

planning and development, and municipal parks. Fees associated with Animal Control will be



                                                 18
established by the County while providing that service. When necessary, District Members shall

pass a resolution delegating authority to the County to collect and distribute such fees to the

District. Copies of these resolutions shall be maintained by the District and shall be made

available to any person upon request.

       4.6     GRANTS

               Any and all grants, donations, and contributions applicable to capital projects or

to any other Service identified in Attachments "A" through "F" for use in the District service

area, shall be collected, distributed to the District and accounted for by the County while

providing services for the District and its Members to fund the provision of Services herein.

       4.7     REMITTANCE. The division or department of the County that provides any of

the Services to the District specified in this Agreement shall bill the District on a monthly basis

for the Services rendered as set forth in the Attachment applicable to the subject Service or as

otherwise agreed to in writing by the Parties. Each County division or department shall submit

the monthly billing to the District, with the invoice presented to the District General Manager for

review and approval, within forty-five (45) days after the end of each month during which any

Service was provided. The billing shall cover all Services provided by the County division or

department during the monthly billing period, contain such detail as desired by the District, and

fully comply with the requirements stated in the applicable Attachment. The District shall remit

payment for Services within forty-five (45) days after the date of receipt of any undisputed bill

to:

               Salt Lake County Public Works and Municipal Services
               Attn: Fiscal Manager
               200 I South State Street, Room N3-600
               Salt Lake City, UT 84050




                                                 19
       If the date a payment is due and payable falls on (i) a legal holiday recognized by either

the County or the District, (ii) a Saturday, (iii) a Sunday, or (iv) another day on which weather or

other conditions make the relevant County office inaccessible, then the payment shall be due and

payable on the next day which is not one of the aforementioned days. If any required payment is

not remitted to the County as and when due, the County shall be entitled to recover interest

thereon at the rate of one percent (1%) per calendar month, to accrue from and after the date the

remittance is due and payable.

       Subject to all limitations herein, the District shall pay to County the cost of Services as

reasonably determined by the County and as set forth in the annual District budget and

subsequent amendments to that budget, as approved by the District Board. Each fund in the

District's budget shall maintain a fund balance consistent with generally accepted fiscal

procedures and best practices. The District shall reimburse the County for the cost of the work

performed for the District, including labor, equipment, materials, and indirect costs, if any, as

outlined in the approved budget and provided herein.

       The County agrees to provide a minimum of three (3) months advance written notice to

the District before increasing any price or cost to the District as provided herein, to be applicable

during any subsequent calendar year, including an explanation of any anticipated price increase

for any Service for the next calendar year. Should the District dispute the County's proposed

cost increase, the parties agree to work together in good faith to come to a resolution, including

the use of mediation through a mediator jointly retained by the County and the District. Should

the parties be unable to reach agreement, the District shall be free to secure the subject Service

from any other service provider and/or to retain personnel, materials, equipment, etc. as




                                                 20
necessary or appropriate for the District to provide the same, whereupon this Agreement shall

terminate respecting such Service, but not otherwise.

       The Parties recognize, understand and agree that the Services to be provided by the

County to the District pursuant to this Agreement are not to be a "profit center" for the County

but, rather, are intended to cover the County's reasonable actual costs incurred in providing each

Service. The Parties further recognize, understand and agree that the District's annual budget

must be balanced as required by the Utah Code, particularly Section l 7B-1-606(3).

       4.8     NON-FUNDING. The Parties acknowledge that the obligation of any Party to

perform as provided in this Agreement is conditioned and dependent upon the appropriation of

funds required for any payment due hereunder or to finance the provision of any Service as

provided in this Agreement. Each Party's obligation is contingent upon funds being appropriated

annually for payments due for the provision of the Services to be provided under this Agreement.

       If no funds or insufficient funds are appropriated and budgeted in any fiscal year, or if

there is a reduction in appropriations due to insufficient revenue, resulting in insufficient funds

for payments due or about to become due under this Agreement then, unless the Parties mutually

agree in writing to reduced Services and/or reduced payments that are in line with available and

budgeted funding, this Agreement shall create no obligation on the Parties or any Party as to

such fiscal year (or any succeeding fiscal year), but instead shall terminate and become void on

the first day of the fiscal year for which funds are not budgeted and appropriated or, in the event

of a reduction in appropriation, on the last day before the reduction becomes effective (except as

to those reduced Service(s) and/or portions of payments required to perform hereunder as agreed

upon by the Parties for which funds are appropriated and budgeted). Said termination shall not

be construed as a breach of or default under this Agreement and said termination shall be without



                                                 21
penalty, additional payment , or other charge of any kind whatsoever to the Parties, and no right

or action for damages or other relief shall accrue to the benefit of any Party to this Agreement.

       4.9     DETERMINING FULL COST FOR SERVICES

       The process for determining full cost for Municipal, Administrative and Operational

Services shall be as follows:

       (A)     By August 15 of each year, each elected official and County staff providing

Municipal, Administrative or Operational Services shall provide the District an estimate of costs

for the upcoming budget year based on the best available information, which will include all

direct and indirect costs. Each elected official and County staff shall disclose to the District and

District Member Metros how costs for Municipal, Administrative and Operational Services were

determined, including how all direct and indirect costs were estimated, and will provide relevant

time or billing records for the current year.

       (B)     The District will budget for each Municipal, Administrative and Operational

Service to District Members based in part on the County's good faith estimate, recognizing that

various Member needs will fluctuate from year to year.

       (C)     During the year, each elected official and County employee providing Municipal,

Administrative, or Operational Services will maintain accurate records of such services.

                                         ARTICLE V
                                     TERM OF AGREEMENT

        5.1    EFFECTIVE DATE AND TERM. This Agreement shall be effective upon the

last of the following events to occur: (i) approval of the Agreement as provided in the UTAH

CODE ANN. § 11-13-202.5(1) and (2), (ii) delivery of the Agreement to an attorney representing


each Party for review as to proper form and compliance with applicable law, and (iii) the filing

of the signed Agreement with the keeper of records of each of the Parties, and shall continue in


                                                 22
full force and effect from year to year thereafter for 50 years, unless previously terminated as

provided herein.

       5.2     TERMINATION. Pursuant to UTAH CODEANN.§ 1 l-13-206(1)(a), the Parties

agree that this Agreement will continue from year to year unless terminated. This Agreement

may be terminated without cause by either the County or the District upon at least one year's

prior written notice to the other Parties, as provided in this Paragraph 5.2, or upon the District

and the County's failure to agree upon the cost to be paid by the District during any future

calendar year as provided in Paragraph 4.7 above. This Agreement may be terminated with cause

by a Party with reasonable accommodation to the other Parties as circumstances necessitate.

                                            ARTICLE VI
                                             NOTICES

       6.1     WRITTEN NOTICE. For purposes of communicating and maintaining ongoing

contract management, written notices will be mailed or sent by email to each designated Party

identified below to the address or email on file with the District. Each Party shall be responsible

to maintain updated addresses and emails.

               DISTRICT:               Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District
                                       District General Manager

                With a copy to         Counsel for the District

               COUNTY:                 Salt Lake County
                                       Director of Public Works and Municipal Services

                With a copy to         Salt Lake County District Attorney
                                       Attn: Chief Deputy District Attorney

                COPPER TON             Copperton Metro Township Chair

                EMIGRATION             Emigration Canyon Metro Township Chair
                CANYON

                KEARNS                 Keams Metro Township Chair


                                                  23
                MAGNA:                 Magna Metro Township Chair

               WHITE CITY             White City Metro Township Chair
A written notice shall be effective immediately upon delivery as noted above or on the third

business day after deposit in the United States mail, first class postage pre-paid, addressed as

stated above.

                                           ARTICLE VII
                                           INSURANCE

       7.1      LIABILITY

                A.     GOVERNMENTAL
                                  IMMUNITY
                                         ACT. The District, the County and District

                Member Metros are governmental entities under the Governmental Immunity Act

                of Utah, UTAHCODEANN.§ 63G-7-101, et seq. the ("Governmental Immunity

                Act"). Consistent with the terms of the Governmental Immunity Act, as provided

                therein, it is mutually agreed that each Party is responsible for its own wrongful or

                negligent acts which are committed by its agents, officials, or employees. No

                Party waives any defense otherwise available under the Governmental Immunity

                Act nor does any Party waive any limit of liability currently provided by the

                Governmental Immunity Act. Each Party agrees to notify the other of the receipt

                of any notice of claim under the Governmental Immunity Act for which one Party

                may have an obligation to defend , indemnify, and hold harmless a Party within

                thirty (30) days of receiving the notice of claim. Each Party also agrees to notify

                every other Party of any summons and/or complaint served upon the said Party, if

                a Party may have an obligation to defend, indemnify, and hold harmless the first

                Party, at least ten ( 10) days before an answer or other response to the summons

                and/or complaint may be due.


                                                 24
B.     INDEMNIFICATIONS.      The County shall defend, indemnify, save and hold

harmless the District and District Member Metros, including, without limitation,

their elected and appointed officers, and their employees and consultants, from

and against any and all demands, liabilities, claims, damages, actions, and/or

proceedings in law or equity, including reasonable attorney fees and costs of suit,

relating to or arising from the County providing Services to the District or District

Member Metros. Similarly, the District and District Member Metros shall defend,

indemnify, save and hold harmless the County including, without limitation, its

elected and appointed officers, and employees, from and against demands,

liabilities, claims, damages, actions, and/or proceedings in law or equity,

including reasonable attorney's fees and costs of suit, relating to or arising from

actions of the District or District Member's agents, officers or employees, except

such demands, liabilities, claims, damages, actions or proceedings as may result

from the negligence or misconduct of the County, its elected or appointed officers

or employees.

C.     INSURANCE.     The County shall be responsible for insuring all of its

employees, Buildings and Assets (including the capital projects to be provided as

set forth in Attachment "G" as and when they are constructed or installed), and

activities including, but not limited to, comprehensive all risk insurance,

commercial general liability insurance, worker's compensation insurance, motor

vehicle liability coverage for owned and non-owned vehicles, and umbrella

liability insurance, for the benefit of the County, the District, and District Member

Metros in such amounts as may be prudent or legally required to protect against



                                 25
               any and every risk, loss, cost, damage and/or liability respecting the provision of

               the Services, the County's employees, the Buildings and Assets as described

               above, etc. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the District and District Member

               Metros acknowledge that the County may be self-insured as deemed prudent by

               the Salt Lake County Council. The District and District Member Metros may

               carry such additional insurance as may be deemed prudent by their governing

               bodies.

       7 .2    It is further expressly understood and agreed by the Parties that the County will

not provide risk management or independent legal services except as provided herein and/or in a

separate agreement with each Metro, and aside from the legal and risk review necessary to

competently perform the Services provided within this Agreement. The District and District

Member Metros agree to review all policy and discretionary decision making with their own

legal independent counsel and insurers to provide direction to the County as the contractor in

performing directed services, and the County agrees to comply with all lawful directions from

the District and from District Member Metros.

                                        ARTICLE VIII
                                    DISPUTE RESOLUTION

       8.1     CLAIMS AND DISPUTES.           In the event of a claim or dispute between the

Parties regarding a Service, the Parties agree (without limiting any and all other legal and

equitable remedies) that a representative of the District and a representative from the affected

District Member Metro will meet as soon as practical with a representative of the County to

discuss and attempt to resolve such dispute. If a resolution is not forthcoming, then the

aggrieved Party may file a discrepancy report with the General Manager of the District or the

Director of the Public Works and Municipal Services Department of the County (as the case may


                                                26
be). The discrepancy report shall be in writing and shall contain a detailed description of the

dispute and the aggrieved Party's proposed resolution of the dispute. The Party receiving the

discrepancy report shall then have ten (I 0) days to notify the aggrieved Party in writing of its

agreement or disagreement with the proposed solution of the dispute described in the

discrepancy report.

       8.2     MEDIATION. Claims, disputes, and other issues between the Parties arising out

of or related to this Agreement which cannot otherwise be resolved by the Parties shall be first

submitted to mediation as mutually agreed. Each Party shall be responsible to pay a

proportionate share of the costs of the Mediator. In the event mediation is unsuccessful, the claim

or dispute may be decided by litigation in the Third Judicial District Court of Salt Lake County,

Utah. Unless the provision of any or all of the Services which are the subject of this Agreement

is otherwise terminated pursuant to the provisions hereof or as otherwise agreed to by the Parties

in writing, during litigation of any such dispute the County shall continue to provide Services

and the District shall continue to make payments to the County for Services actually provided in

accordance with the terms of this Agreement. District Members shall continue to perform their

commitments under this Agreement.

       8.3     RIGHTS AND REMEDIES. The rights and remedies of the Parties hereto shall

not be mutually exclusive , and the exercise of one or more of the rights or remedies provided in

this Agreement shall not preclude the exercise of any other right or remedy.

                                       ARTICLE IX
                              INTERLOCAL COOPERATION ACT

       9.1     COMPLIANCE WITH UTAH CODE ANN. 11-13-101 ET SEQ. The Parties

enter into this Agreement pursuant to the Interlocal Cooperation Act. For the purpose of

satisfying specific requirements of the Interlocal Cooperation Act, the Parties agree as follows:


                                                 27
A.     The Parties do not, nor intend to, create an interlocal entity by this

Agreement.

B.     Each Party has submitted this Agreement to an attorney authorized to

represent the said Party for review as to proper form and compliance with

applicable law.

C.     The duration of this Agreement is as set forth in paragraph 5.1 above.

D.     The District may be funded by Sales Tax Revenues, by class B and C

roads account revenues, by cable franchise fees, by grants and by fines, fees,

charges, levies, property taxes, or other available funds. Such funds will be the

District's source of funds to make payments to the County required by this

Agreement and, in the event and to the extent such funds are not timely provided

to the District, the District's obligations to make payment to the County hereunder

shall be proportionately abated until such time as the required funding is provided

to the District. The District shall be responsible for formulating and approving its

annual budget and the County shall be responsible for formulating and approving

its annual budget and, in particular, the annual budget of each County division

and department that will or may provide any Service to the District as provided in

this Agreement.

E.     Any or all of the Services which are the subjects of this Agreement may be

terminated or removed from this Agreement as provided in Article V.

F.     Each Party will acquire, hold, and dispose of its own real and personal

property and there will be no jointly owned property upon the partial or complete




                                 28
termination of this Agreement, including the termination of any Service to be

provided hereunder.

G.       To the extent necessary to administer the cooperative undertaking set forth

in this Agreement, the General Manager of the District shall have the full

authority and responsibility to administer the cooperative undertaking on behalf of

the District, and the Mayor of the County shall have the full authority and

responsibility to administer the cooperative undertaking on behalf of the County.

Each District Member Metro chair shall have the full authority and responsibility

to administer the cooperative undertaking on behalf of that Member Metro.

Although it is not anticipated that voting will be required, to the extent that voting

is required, voting shall be made on the basis of one vote per Party, and not

weighted.

H.       Since this Agreement cannot take effect under the Interlocal Cooperation

Act until it is approved, signed, and filed with the keeper of records of each of the

Parties, each Party agrees, immediately upon approval and execution of this

Agreement, to file the signed Agreement with the keeper of records of the said

Party.

I.       Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in the event that this

Agreement does not satisfy any requirement of the Interlocal Cooperation Act,

which failure would cause this Agreement to fail to be effective under the

Interlocal Cooperation Act, this Agreement shall nevertheless be fully binding

upon and enforceable by the Parties pursuant to law outside of the application of

the Interlocal Cooperation Act.



                                  29
                                        ARTICLE X
                                MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

        10.1      APPLICABLE LAW. The provisions of this Agreement shall be governed by

and be construed in accordance with the laws of the state of Utah.

        10.2      fNTEGRA TION. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the

Parties regarding those subjects that are the subject matter of this Agreement, and this

Agreement supersedes all prior agreements and understandings between the Parties.

        10.3      WAIYER. No failure by any Party to insist upon strict performance of any

covenant, duty, agreement, or condition of this Agreement, or to exercise any right or remedy

consequent upon a breach thereof, shall constitute a waiver of any such breach or of any other

covenant, agreement, term, or condition of this Agreement. Any Party may, by notice delivered

in the manner provided in this Agreement, but shall be under no obligation to, waive any of its

rights or any condition to its obligations hereunder, or any duty, obligation or covenant of any

other Party. No waiver shall affect or alter the remainder of this Agreement, but each and every

other covenant, agreement, term, and condition hereof shall continue in full force and effect with

respect to any other then existing or subsequently occurring breach.

        10.4      AMENDMENT. The Parties may amend this Agreement in a writing duly signed

by all Parties.

        10.5      NO AGENCY. Agents, employees, or representatives of any Party shall not be

deemed to be agents, employees, or representatives of any other Party.

        10.6      TITLES AND CAPTIONS.        All paragraph and subparagraph titles and captions

herein are for convenience only. Such titles and captions shall not be deemed to be part of this

Agreement and shall in no way define, limit, augment, extend or describe the scope, content or

intent of any part or parts hereof.


                                                 30
         I 0.7   SEVERABILITY. In the event that any condition, covenant, or other provision

hereof is held to be invalid, void, or unenforceable, the same shall be deemed severable from the

remainder of this Agreement and shall in no way affect any other covenant, condition, or

provision herein contained. If such condition, covenant, or provision shall be deemed invalid

due to its scope or breadth, such provision shall be deemed valid to the extent of the scope or

breadth permitted by law.

         I 0.8   TIME.    Time is the essence hereof.

         I 0.9   SUR VIAL. All agreements, covenants, representations and warranties contained

herein shall survive the execution of this Agreement and shall continue in full force and effect

throughout the term of this Agreement.

         IO.IO COUNTERPARTS.           This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of

which shall be deemed an original and all of which together shall constitute one and the same

instrument.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties have subscribed their names hereon and caused

this Agreement to be duly executed effective as provided in Paragraph 5.1 hereof.


 GREATER SALT LAKE MUNICIPAL                       SALT LAKE COUNTY
 SERVICES DISTRICT

 By:                                               By:
     ----
 Ch air
                  --     -------            -          -----
                                                   Rick Graham,
                                                                   -- - ----        --
                                                   Deputy Mayor, Public Works & Municipal
 Date:                                             Services
         ---     --      - ----      ----
                                                   Date :
                                                            ------       --------
 APPROVED AS TO FORM                               APPROVED AS TO FORM

                                                   Is Kelly W. Wright         12/21/2017
 Attorney representing Greater Salt Lake           Salt Lake County Deputy District Attorney
 Municipal Services District


                                                  31
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP                          EMIGRATION CANYON METRO
                                                  TOWNSHIP
By: ---          -    ------               --     By: ________                 ___        _ _
      Chair                                           Chair

Date:                                             Date:
        - -----                  - ----                   -----        - ---         --     - -
APPROVED AS TO FORM                               APPROVED AS TO FORM


Attorney representing Copperton Metro             Attorney representing Emigration Canyon
Township                                          Metro Township


KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP                             MAGNA METRO TOWNSHIP

By: ---                                           By: _ _________                          _ _
                 - ------                  --
      Chair                                           Chair

Date:                                             Date : - ---------
        ---          -------                --                                            - --
APPROVED AS TO FORM                               APPROVED AS TO FORM


Attorney representing Keams Metro                 Attorney representing Keams Metro
Township                                          Township

WHITE CITY METRO TOWNSHIP                         APPROVED AS TO FORM

By:
      --
      Ch air
               ------                ---          Attorney representing White City Metro
                                                  Township
Date: - - ---                  - -----




                                                 32
                                      ATTACHMENT "A"

                   Road and Street Construction and Maintenance Services

Scope:

Public Works Operations
Provide comprehensive road maintenance and construction services including: snow removal,
slurry and crack seal, pot hole patching, asphalt patching, surface clean-up, sweeping, pavement
management, major and minor pavement maintenance, road cut inspections, traffic signal
construction and maintenance, traffic signs and road striping, concrete construction, street
sweeping, and storm drain installation and maintenance. Provide street lights for the streets and
neighborhoods of the District service area. Services include maintenance of street lights and
payment of street light power bills. Other services provided include: sidewalk inventory, tree
trimming, and graffiti cleanup.

Budget: Subject to available funds, the District shall pay to the County the actual cost of services
as set forth in the annual District budget and subsequent amendments to that budget, as approved
by the District Board. Please see approved and adopted District Budget.

Overhead: County Indirect Costs associated with the District Board of Trustees, Mayor's
Administration, Mayor's Operations, County Auditor, District Attorney, Real Estate, Information
Services, Contracts and Procurement, Human Resources, Governmental Immunity, Records
Management, Risk Management and Mayor's Finance are included in the overhead charges.
Overhead charges are billed one (1) year in arrears. Overhead from former members of the
District will not be included. The costs to the County for providing overhead to the District will
be billed when the County has completed the indirect cost plan and has the actual expenses to
bill. For purposes of this contract the amount of overhead that will be billed on behalf of the
County in the subsequent year will be approximated by the amount in the current year. A copy of
the County Indirect Plan will be provided on request.




                                                 33
                                    ATTACHMENT "A-1"
                              Public Works Engineering Services
Scope:

Provides planning, engineering design services, and construction/inspection management
services for transportation, roadway and storm drain construction in the District Service Area,
and weed abatement. Additionally, permit administration, traffic calming, safer sidewalk
programs and the District's UPDES storm water quality permit are managed for the District
Service Area. Review new development plans and subdivisions for compliance with codes and
ordinances.

Budget: Subject to available funds, the District shall pay to the County the actual cost of services
as set forth in the annual District budget and subsequent amendments to that budget, as approved
by the District Board. Please see approved and adopted District Budget. NOTE: The District
General Manager will retain the authority, to the extent delegated by the District Board, to
approve all field change orders or other budgetary matters impacting the cost of the project
services within the approved budget.

Overhead: County Indirect Costs associated with the District Board of Trustees, Mayor's
Administration, Mayor's Operations, County Auditor, District Attorney, Real Estate, Information
Services, Contracts and Procurement, Human Resources, Governmental Immunity, Records
Management, Risk Management and Mayor's Finance are included in the overhead charges.
Overhead charges are billed one (1) year in arrears. Overhead from former members of the
District will not be included. The costs to the County for providing overhead to the District will
be billed when the County has completed the indirect cost plan and has the actual expenses to
bill. For purposes of this contract the amount of overhead that will be billed on behalf of the
County in the subsequent year will be approximated by the amount in the current year. A copy of
the County Indirect Plan will be provided on request.




                                                 34
                                     ATTACHMENT "B"
                                    Animal Control Services

        1.      Scope of Services. The County shall furnish all animal control services
reasonably needed by the District and as set forth in this agreement ("Animal Control Services")
to the District within the service area limits of the District (the "District Limits").

       2.      Description of Minimum Level of Animal Control Services. Continuously
throughout the term of this Agreement, the County shall provide, at minimum, the following
Animal Control Services within the District Limits:

                 a.      Administrative. Administrative personnel, equipment, and supplies
necessary to support modem, well-equipped animal control department in compliance with all
applicable laws and standards. This includes customer services, such as providing information to
customers who come to the shelter or contact the shelter by telephone or other electronic means,
including services available, animal information, ordinance information, and various other
resources.
                 b.      Licensing. Personnel, equipment and supplies to support a modem, well-
equipped animal licensing program, including, without limitation, (1) collecting license fees, (ii)
issuing licenses, (iii) enforcing license requirements, and (iv) enforcing and supporting special
programs such as rabies clinic and neuter/spay clinics.
                 c.      Regulating. Personnel, equipment, and supplies necessary to support a
modem, well-equipped animal regulation program, including without limitation, (i) a regular and
systematic program of animal control enforcement; (ii) enforcement of state laws and regulations
and municipal ordinances (and amendments thereto including, without limitation, issuing
citations and promptly transmitting information copies of such citation to the Metro); and (iii)
providing on an emergency basis, as described below, a fully-equipped animal control unit which
shall respond to requests from within the District Limits 24 hours per day, 7 days per week.
                 d.      Controlling and Shelter Services. Personnel, equipment and supplies
necessary to support a modem, well-equipped animal control program, including, without
limitation, (i) catching stray domestic animals; (ii) operating and managing a modem well-
equipped animal control shelter; (iii) impounding stray animals; (iv) collecting any fees or fines
owed for such stray or impounded animals; (iv) providing temporary housing and care for all
animals coming into the shelter from within the District Limits, including companion animals
and livestock; (v) providing medical treatment for animals while in temporary shelter care; and
(vi) providing low cost wellness services to the low-income community members in the service
area, including vaccinations and sterilizations.
                 e.      Special Programs. Personnel, equipment, supplies, and volunteers
necessary to support the following programs: Outreach and education, Rescue/Foster, Animal
Behavior, The Pit Crew, Trap-Neuter-Release, Humane Education, and any other programs
developed by County Animal Services to improve services to the community. These programs
are responsible for ensuring a steady live release rate by reducing in-taking and increasing
animal placement. These programs are provided in order to maintain the County's "No-Kill"
Status.
                 f.      Boyce Pet Adoption Endowment. Provide interest income which will be
used exclusively to support pet adoption programs.


                                                35
                g.      Others. Personnel, equipment and supplies necessary to provide other
related support services, including, without limitation, (i) selling impounded animals in
accordance with reasonable animal control procedures; (ii) an adoption program for impounded
animals; (iii) disposing of impounded animals in its sole and absolute discretion ("disposing"
shall mean euthanizing impounded animals or otherwise killing impounded animals in a humane
fashion); (iv) disposing of animal carcasses in accordance with reasonable animal control
procedures; and (v) handling injured or sick animals.

       3.       Personnel Assigned Within District Limits.
                 a.     Animal Control Officer Assigned to District. In order to provide Animal
Control Services to the District, County shall provide the personnel, equipment and supplies
necessary to provide such Animal Control Services. The County shall develop and maintain in
effect policies to insure that such full-time animal control officers will work primarily within the
service area on cases originating in the District limits between the hours of 7:00 AM and
midnight; provided, however, that the animal control officers may be called to assist temporarily
in other areas of unincorporated county or adjoining municipalities when common sense dictates .
                 b.     Emergencies. In order to provide Animal Control Services to the District
at such times not covered by Section 3(a) and to provide additional support during the times
covered by Section 3(a), the County shall provide the personnel, equipment and supplies
necessary to make an animal control officer available or on call twenty-four hours per day, three
hundred sixty-five (365) days per year.

         4.      No-Kill Statu . County agrees to maintain its "No-Kill" Status for the duration of
this agreement by maintaining programs listed in (2)(e) and implementing new programs to
assist in this effort. Each Party agrees that it will take no action to compromise the County's
"No-kill" Status and associated programs.

        5.      Certification. All personnel providing Animal Control Services within the
District Limits shall have the same certification, meet the same requirements and, on average,
have a similar level of experience, as other personnel regularly employed by Animal Control.

        6.      Services Performed in a Professional, Ethical Manner. The Animal Control
Services shall be provided by County in a professional, ethical manner in compliance with all
laws and any and all applicable standards of performance. Subject to the foregoing, the exact
nature of how the Animal Control Services are to be provided, the discipline of personnel, and
other matters incidental to providing the Animal Control Services shall remain with the County.
        7.      Special Situations. The County shall provide special animal control services to
the District without charge upon reasonable advance notice from the District if such special
services (a) are regularly and routinely provided to any municipality in the County without
charge, or (b) provided by the County on an actual out of pocket (marginal) cost without material
additional cost to the County. Otherwise, any special animal control services requested by the
District shall be provided by the County.

        8.     Equipment and FaciJitjes.
               a.      Equipment. In providing Animal Control Services, the County shall
furnish and supply all necessary labor, supervision, equipment, supplies, communication


                                                36
facilities, uniforms, badges, firearms, and other items of equipment necessary and incident to a
modem, well-equipped Animal Control Services department.
                 b.     Facilities. In connection with its performance of Animal Control Services,
the County shall continue to maintain and operate its animal control facility at 511 West 3900
South, Millcreek, Utah 84123.

       9.        Collection of License Fees and Payment for Services.
                 a.      County Collect and Record License Fees. Each District Member will
maintain in effect a license fee ordinance compatible with the license fee ordinance currently
imposed by the County. Throughout the term of this Agreement, the County shall collect on
behalf of the District and District Member all license fees, assessments, impound fees or fines
(collectively, the "License Fees") and other applicable charges for Animal Control Services
performed within the City Limits. The amounts so collected shall be recorded by the County.
The County will keep the fees to offset costs.
                 b.      Budget. Subject to available funding, the District shall pay to County the
actual cost of Services as set forth in the annual District budget and subsequent amendments to
that budget, as approved by the District Board. Please see approved and adopted District Budget.
                 c.      Overhead. County Indirect Costs associated with the District Board of
Trustees, Mayor's Administration, Mayor's Operations, County Auditor, District Attorney, Real
Estate, Information Services, Contracts and Procurement, Human Resources, Governmental
Immunity, Records Management, Risk Management and Mayor's Finance are included in the
overhead charges. Overhead charges are billed one (I) year in arrears. Overhead from former
members of the District will not be included. The costs to the County for providing overhead to
the District will be billed when the County has completed the indirect cost plan and has the
actual expenses to bill. For purposes of this contract the amount of overhead that will be billed
on behalf of the County in the subsequent year will be approximated by the amount in the current
year. A copy of the County Indirect Plan will be provided on request.




                                                37
                                    ATTACHMENT "C"
                             Planning and Development Services

Scope:
Building Permits - Provide building permits within the area served by the District.

Business Licensing - Provide business licensing within the area served by the District.

Building Inspection - Assure that structures and improvements are built in compliance with
approved plans and in compliance with the appropriate building codes. In addition, this team is
essential to responding to emergencies when structures are damaged due to natural or man-made
disasters.

Code Enforcement - Assure that on-going operation of properties and businesses is in
compliance with applicable state and local laws and ordinances.

Planning and Zoning - Provide the resources to create general plans for communities for the
purpose of ensuring that future development is consistent with community best practices. Assist
the public and the Regional Development Department in selecting the most efficient path to
achieve the desired building permit for any project. Provide staffing support for planning
commissions to make the public review portion of the permitting process as efficient as possible.
Issue business licenses and building permits in accordance with state, county and local
regulations. Provide any other assistance that is reasonably related to the Members' planning and
zoning responsibilities. There is an emphasis on applying regulations to achieve the highest level
of public safety reasonably possible. County will provide any other assistance requested by
Member Metros relating to their planning and development.
Budget: Subject to available funding, the District shall pay to County the actual cost of Services
as set forth in the annual District budget and subsequent amendments to that budget, as approved
by the District Board. Please see approved and adopted District Budget.

Overhead: County Indirect Costs associated with the District Board of Trustees, Mayor's
Administration, Mayor's Operations, County Auditor, District Attorney, Real Estate, Information
Services, Contracts and Procurement, Human Resources, Governmental Immunity, Records
Management, Risk Management and Mayor's Finance are included in the overhead charges.
Overhead charges are billed one (1) year in arrears. Overhead from former members of the
District will not be included. The costs to the County for providing overhead to the District will
be billed when the County has completed the indirect cost plan and has the actual expenses to
bill. For purposes of this contract the amount of overhead that will be billed on behalf of the
County in the subsequent year will be approximated by the amount in the current year. A copy of
the County Indirect Plan will be provided on request.




                                                38
                                    ATTACHMENT "D"
                                   Municipal Parks Services
Scope:

Parks maintained: Big Bear, Bruce Field, Canyon Rim, Copperton, David Gourley, Elk Run,
Fortuna, Impressions, Keams Linear, Loder, Magna Copper Park and Garden, Magna Mantle
and Mini's, Magna Neighborhood, Mountain Man, North Park, Oquirrh Highlands and Basin,
South Park, Sunnyvale, and Welker Memorial.

Services Provided:
Administration: Administrative oversight of the County Park Sections' day-to-day operations:
budget utilization and monitoring, and operations that includes maintenance salaries and wages,
vehicle replacement, fuel, equipment, and capital equipment that are not practical to budget in a
specific park location, bicycle lanes.

Parks, Trails, and Open Space: Maintenance costs for each individual park site, i.e., plumbing
supplies, irrigation components, paint, graffiti removal, electrical and lighting components,
playground maintenance, seasonal caretaker, utilities, power, water, gas, fertilizer, weed
spraying, tree maintenance, ground maintenance, snow removal, turf maintenance and trail
maintenance.

Budget: Subject to available funding, the District shall pay to County the actual cost of Services
as set forth in the annual District budget and subsequent amendments to that budget, as approved
by the District Board. Please see approved and adopted District Budget.

Overhead: County Indirect Costs associated with the District Board of Trustees, Mayor's
Administration, Mayor's Operations, County Auditor, District Attorney, Real Estate, Information
Services, Contracts and Procurement, Human Resources, Governmental Immunity, Records
Management, Risk Management and Mayor's Finance are included in the overhead charges.
Overhead charges are billed one (1) year in arrears. Overhead from former members of the
District will not be included. The costs to the County for providing overhead to the District will
be billed when the County has completed the indirect cost plan and has the actual expenses to
bill. For purposes of this contract the amount of overhead that will be billed on behalf of the
County in the subsequent year will be approximated by the amount in the current year. A copy of
the County Indirect Plan will be provided on request.




                                                39
                                     ATTACHMENT "E"
                                    Administrative Services



Scope:
Administration - Administrative Services oversees and provides administrative and fiscal
support to: Planning and Development Services, Public Works Operations, Animal Control
Services, and Administrative Engineering Services for the District and its Members. These
services include revenue collection services, purchasing, human resources, information services
and community liaison and engagement.
Community Services - Community Liaisons and our communication staff provide information
and updates on projects and initiatives, provide administrative services to the District and its
Members, and administer grant funding. Additionally, liaisons convey community issues and
problems to the proper government agencies, work to resolve issues, are direct links between
constituents and the Administrative Services, including the Mayor's Office and the County
Council. Other responsibilities include budget assistance, election coordination, and municipal
priority planning.

Economic Development Services - Administrative Services provides economic development
services to the District and its members including providing a successful environment for
business looking to start or move into the District area, support for existing businesses and long
range planning for the future success of each District Member. Services will include
administration and management of project areas created by the Redevelopment Agency of Salt
Lake County as authorized by interlocal agreement between the County and the Redevelopment
Agency, and similar services. The provision of community reinvestment initiatives for new or
proposed community reinvestment project areas may be established through separate interlocal
agreements executed between the Redevelopment Agency of Salt Lake County and each
Member Metro.

Budget: Subject to available funding, the District shall pay to County the actual cost of Services
as set forth in the annual District budget and subsequent amendments to that budget, as approved
by the District Board. Please see approved and adopted District Budget.

Overhead: County Indirect Costs associated with the District Board of Trustees, Mayor's
Administration, Mayor's Operations, County Auditor, District Attorney, Real Estate, Information
Services, Contracts and Procurement, Human Resources, Governmental Immunity, Records
Management, Risk Management and Mayor's Finance are included in the overhead charges.
Overhead charges are billed one (I) year in arrears. Overhead from former members of the
District will not be included. The costs to the County for providing overhead to the District will
be billed when the County has completed the indirect cost plan and has the actual expenses to
bill. For purposes of this contract the amount of overhead that will be billed on behalf of the
County in the subsequent year will be approximated by the amount in the current year. A copy of
the County Indirect Plan will be provided on request.



                                                40
                                    ATTACHMENT "F"
                        Operational Services- - Statutory and General
Scope:

The provision of operational services, statutory and general, serve to benefit District members in
their organization operations.

Operational services include budgeting and accounting services, treasurer services, clerk and
recorder services, surveyor services, auditor services, engineering services not otherwise
provided above, and justice court services (including prosecution and indigent defense for same).
Surveyor services may include mapping and GIS services, property site surveys and other
surveyor services.

Budget: Subject to available funding, the District shall pay to County the actual cost of Services
as set forth in the annual District budget and subsequent amendments to that budget, as approved
by the District Board. Please see approved and adopted District Budget.

Overhead: County Indirect Costs associated with the District Board of Trustees, Mayor's
Administration, Mayor's Operations, County Auditor, District Attorney, Real Estate, Information
Services, Contracts and Procurement, Human Resources, Governmental Immunity, Records
Management, Risk Management and Mayor's Finance are included in the overhead charges.
Overhead charges are billed one (I) year in arrears. Overhead from former members of the
District will not be included. The costs to the County for providing overhead to the District will
be billed when the County has completed the indirect cost plan and has the actual expenses to
bill. For purposes of this contract the amount of overhead that will be billed on behalf of the
County in the subsequent year will be approximated by the amount in the current year. A copy of
the County Indirect Plan will be provided on request.




                                                41
