                      COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                             ORDINANCE# 2018-01-01
                                 January 17, 2018

AMENDING ORDINANCE #2017-12-01 GOVERNING THE ISSUANCE OF VOUCHERS
ALLOWING COPPERTON RESIDENTS TO DISPOSE OF HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE
                 AT THE TRANS-JORDAN LANDFILL

BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Copperton Metro Township Council (the
"Council") met in a regular public meeting on January 17, 2018.

                                           WITNESS

      A.       WHEREAS, on December 14, 1993, Kennecott Utah Copper Corporation entered
into the attached agreement (the "Agreement") with the predecessors-in-interest of the Trans-
Jordan Landfill ("Trans-Jordan"); and

      B.        WHEREAS, Article 7.4 of the Agreement and the associated warranty deed that
conveyed title to Trans-Jordan provide: "For so long as the Property shall be used as a landfill,
Grantee herby grants to the residents of the community of Copperton the right to dispose of solid
household waste and refuse upon the Property, in compliance with the rules and regulations of the
landfill, and the same will be handled and disposed of in the same manner as materials brought
upon the Property by Grantee, all without cost to the residents ofCopperton;" and

      C.       WHEREAS, residents of the Copperton Metro Township ("Copperton") are third-
party beneficiaries of the Agreement; and

     D.        WHEREAS, to assist Trans-Jordan in fulfilling its obligations under the
Agreement and the warranty deed and to limit future controversies and conflict over the right of
Copperton residents to dispose of waste at Trans-Jordan without cost, the Council approved
Ordinance #2017-12-01 on December 20, 2018, which authorized the Council to issue vouchers
to Copperton residents entitling them to dispose of household solid waste at Trans-Jordan; and

     E.        WHEREAS, Section 2.02.070(C) of the policy provided that Copperton residents
would be entitled to two (2) vouchers per month and additional vouchers on case-by-case basis;
and

      F.       WHEREAS, in response to questions and concerns from Copperton residents
regarding this provision, the Council desires to remove this provision and provide that Copperton
residents may request a reasonable number of vouchers.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:

       1.      Section 2.02.070(C) of Ordinance #2017-12-01, which the Council approved on
                                                            Ordinance # 2018-01-01 Page 1 of 3
December 20, 2017, is revised to read as follows effectively immediately:

             Except as otherwise provided herein, a resident who satisfies the
             requirements of Section 2.02.060 may request a reasonable number of
             vouchers.




ATTEST:

~i
s
   .""·.-.)L,'=-
 1errie Swensen
               ,.==-
Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township Recorder

VOTING

Council Member Bailey voting        Yea

Council Member Clayton voting       Yea

Council Member Pazell voting        Yea

Council Member Patrick voting       Yea




                                                           Ordinance# 2018-01-01 Page 2 of3
Title 2 - COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL

Chapter 2.02 - COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION OF TRANS-JORDAN LANDFILL
VOUCHERS

2.02-010 - Definitions

Whenever used in this Chapter:

"Agreement" means Article 7.4 of the Agreement dated December 14, 1993 between Kennecott
Utah Copper Corporation and Trans-Jordan's predecessors in interest, which provides:

       For so long as the Property shall be used as a landfill, Purchaser shall grant the
       residents of the community of Copperton the right to dispose of solid household
       waste and refuse upon the Property, in compliance with the rules and regulations of
       the landfill, and the same will be handled and disposed of in the same manner as
       materials brought upon the Property by Purchaser, all without cost to the residents
       of the community of Copperton.

"Trans-Jordan" means the Trans-Jordan Landfill


2.02 .020 Purpose

        This ordinance is intended to govern the process by which the Council will determine the
residency of Copperton citizens for the purpose of issuing vouchers allowing them to dispose of
household solid waste at Trans-Jordan pursuant to the Agreement.


2.02-030- Voucher(s) Required

        Any individual seeking to dispose of household solid waste at Trans-Jordan without cost
pursuant to the Agreement must present a voucher issued pursuant to this ordinance at the Trans-
Jordan gatehouse. No other documentation will be accepted to establish residency for the purposes
of the Agreement. If an individual is unable to present a voucher, Trans-Jordan may disallow the
individual from dumping, or allow the individual to dump the waste by paying regular landfill
rates. Vouchers will be surrendered upon redemption at the Trans-Jordan scalehouse.


2.02.040- Household Solid Waste Only

     A.      Limitation: Under the Agreement, Copperton residents may only dispose of solid
household waste at Trans-Jordan without cost.

     B.        Definition : For the purposes of this ordinance, household waste means waste that
is household in nature and originates from Copperton residences, and not from a commercial
business or other enterprise, whether based in Copperton or elsewhere. Household waste also does
not include the following, which are excluded from the voucher program and subject to Trans-
Jordan's standard rules, regulations, and fees, where applicable:

               1. Household Hazardous Waste is always accepted by Trans-Jordan free of charge
           and must be separated from a disposal load of household waste;

               2. Electronic Recycling (E-Waste) is always accepted free of charge by Trans-
           Jordan;

               3. Tire Disposal;

               4. Freon Extraction (e.g., refrigerators, freezers, and portable air conditioning
           units); and

              5. Mattresses - up to three mattresses may be disposed of for free under the
           voucher program. A per mattress surcharge will apply to mattresses above three
           mattresses.

               6. Household Recycling - (i.e. plastic containers, cardboard, paper, steel and
           aluminum cans, and glass) is always accepted by Trans-Jordan free of charge for
           placement into recycling bins.

2.02.050 - Voucher Administrator

     A.        Appointment: Each year, the Council will appoint two of its members to serve as
a Voucher Administrator and Assistant Voucher Administrator to carry out the responsibilities
authorized in this Chapter in consultation with the Council.

     B.       Responsibilities: In addition to the other responsibilities authorized in this
Chapter, the Voucher Administrator will:

                1. Bear primary responsibility for carrying out the responsibilities authorized in
           this Chapter, provided that the Voucher Administrator may delegate such
           responsibilities to the Assistant Voucher as the Voucher Administrator deems
           appropriate.

               2. Keep the Council reasonably informed of any problems or other issues
           associated with this ordinance, providing at least quarterly reports to the Council on
           the operation of this ordinance; and

               3. Act as the Council's liaison with Trans-Jordan for the purposes of this
           ordinance, which will include, at a minimum:
                      a. Keeping the Trans-Jordan Executive Director appraised of the
                   Voucher Administrator's current telephone number and email address;

                       b. Receive feedback and reports of incidents involving possible
                   violations of this ordinance from the Trans-Jordan Executive Director (or
                   authorized Trans-Jordan representative), and investigate such incidents as may
                   be necessary, and

                       c. Request vouchers from Trans-Jordan, as needed.

2.02.060- Verifying Residency

      A.      Documents Needed to Establish Residency: Except as otherwise provided, the
Voucher Administrator will issue a voucher(s) to any individual who provides any two of the
following documents, which must include the individual's name and list their address as either
"Copperton" or "Bingham Canyon," Utah:

               1. A valid, unexpired Utah driver's license, U.S. passport, or U.S. passport card
           (only one of these documents will be accepted);

               2. A Bank statement (dated within 60 days);

               3. Court documents (issued within last year);

               4. A major credit card bill (dated within 60 days);

               5. Property tax notice (statement or receipt dated within one year);

               6. School transcript (dated within 90 days); or

               7. Utility bill (billing date within 60 days).

      B.        Alternative Process for Establishing Residency: If an individual is unable to provide
the documents listed in Section 2.02.060(A), the Voucher Administrator will make a reasonable
effort to consider other documentation or information to verify the individual's residency status
and exercise their best judgment to determine whether or not the individual qualifies as a
Copperton resident for the purposes of this ordinance.

     C.        Determination ofNon-Residency: If the Voucher Administrator declines to issue a
voucher for failure to establish residency, they must provide the individual with a written
explanation of the reasons for the determination.

2.02.070 - Vouchers

      A.       Weight Limit: A voucher will entitle its holder to dispose of up to 600 pounds of
household waste per trip without cost at Trans-Jordan. Residents may request multiple vouchers,
provided that residents will only be able to use one voucher per trip.

      B.        Form: Each voucher issued will be in substantially the following form:




                                                           Validfor Copperton Residents Only
                Voucher Example -
                      Front                               Expires December 31, 2018

            Use this voucher for one (1) load of waste, up to 600 lbs, (equivalent of one pickup
                  truck or pickup truck sized trailer) for disposal at Trans-Jordan Landfill.

                                                    One voucher per load or transaction .

                                                                 Voucher#OOO
                                            Landfill Location: 10473 S. Bacchus Hwy (U-111)
                                        Landfill Hours: Monday-Saturday     7:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m.                                                   OlfiL't!   Ille   onl_r
                                                                                                                                                     lnh.:k::: -'O(l
                                                     See Reverse Side For User Rules and Respanslb/llties




                                    VOUCHER USE-RULES                                      & RESPO 'SIBfLITES
            •   Alt lo:-idsmlL-.tht: folly larpcJ and sccun:d or \ouchcr will be imali<laLcJ ~mJ a doublt.: fee \\ill Jpply.
            •   Vuui:h1..Tonly ,alid on <li!--posalload-.. not ,aliJ on purchas..::of product (i..:. compost & ,,oodchip:-.)~
            •                                                                                                         by this vouchc:r_
                Loads 01\L"il originate from tht.:user•s pen;onal ~sidc:nc..:(,,ithin Cnpp,:rton) and b1.:ac1,;omp:mic<l
            •   lis1..-rmust follow instrui:tions g.hen by lanJfill pcrsonnd and abidt: by all l;1nJfill rulc:s.
            •   All ,om:hers arc numhl.'TcJand "iJI be tr.ickcd ant.I ,oiJcJ upon n.-Jcmpli('ln.
            •   Vouch1.n arc issued om: per Copperton houscholJ and an:: non-lransfc:rr.1blc:.                       Voucher Example                                    -
            •   Loads not accompanic:J by a vau1.:hcrwill he charged at regular rates.                                           Back
            •   No copies ur facsimiles are p ...·Tmith:<l.

                                                LANDFILL RATES & SERVICES
                                Coppi:rron r~sidl'm .,· .'i/1011/dbe awart' that .wmit speciol \1'1,H/ 1•, l'ft/ ll;re JJJl t mwl hundf;,1g and
                                                  ,nth,: ,vudter program. The most com mon ufth estt u 'UJICJ vrt! /iJtc."1below.
                                art: not 111d11Jt!d
                                            Call our .ficolehou.se at 80/-569-8994 {/_\·ouhine addUionol q11estio11J'
                                                                                                                   .
            •   Dispo~al Rates:
                    Trnsh----$30 pc:r ton wi1h an SlO minimum Gr~m\ash:-$12            per ton with a S6 minimum
            •   Residmtial Household Hn:mrdous Waste (HHW) is acc<-pled free of charge. Must be scporntcJ from disposal load.
            •   Residential Electronic Rcc)ding (E-scrnp) is accq,h:d free of charge:.
            •   Reside,rtial Tire Dispo~al: S~.00 off the rim :ind SJ on the rim "ilh a mo"imum of 4 tin:s pL"T resident.
            •   Resid~ntinl Freon Extro.1.:tion: Residential unit-. (e.g . refrigcrolors . frcczcrs & porlablc a le unils) "ill bi: charged
                S12 per unit.
            •   Residentinl Mattresses : S 15 surcharge p~r maun:ss upplics for more lhan three ma nrcs scs .

                                      Rates & Services Subject to Change without Notice



      C.         Requests for Vouchers:

               1. Each Voucher Administrator designated by the Board will develop the process
           and manner by which residents may request vouchers, subject the Council's review and
           approval of said process.
               2. Except as otherwise provided herein, a resident who satisfies the requirements
           of Section 2.02.060 may request ~a       r asonabl e nw11ber of vouchers per month .
           Hm Voucher Administrator ·.vill consider requests for vouchers in eJ<ccss of l.lti-
           amollol on a case by ease basis.

     D.       Ledger : The Voucher Administrator will maintain a ledger that will include the
      name , address , and serial number of each voucher issued to a resident, as well as a signed
      acknowledgement by the resident that failure to abide by these terms and conditions may
      result in the revocation of a voucher( s) or the refusal of the Voucher Administrator and the
      Council to issue further vouchers. The form of the ledger entries will be substantially as
      follows:

      Entry Number _ _ _ __ __ ____                    ______             _ ______            _
      Voucher Number ---      ----       ----            --       - ---     - --     ----
      Resident Name:
                       -- ---
      Resident Address : - --
                                   - ---------                        - - ----        - ---
                               - --    - ---           -------              --     ----       -
      Date Issued: -------          - ------                 - ----         ---       - ---
      Acknowledgment: By receiving and accepting this voucher I agree to abide by all
      terms and conditions contained on the voucher. I further acknowledge that failure
      to abide by these terms and conditions and discourteous treatment of Trans-Jordan
      personnel may result in the revocation of this voucher and any other voucher(s)
      issued in my name.

      Signed and acknowledged this         day of --     -    ~
                                                                  , 20_   , by - - - ----

       E.       Revocation: If the Voucher Administrator receives a complaint from Trans-Jordan
associated with a resident as identified by a specific voucher number, the Voucher Administrator
will exercise due diligence to investigate the complaint. If the Voucher Administrator determines
that the resident has violated the terms of this ordinance, the Voucher Administrator may, in their
discretion, may issue a written warning, revoke any voucher(s) issued to the resident, and/or refuse
to issue additional vouchers until such time as the resident as demonstrated to the Voucher
Administrator that they are willing and capable of complying with this ordinance and the terms
and conditions of the voucher. If the Voucher Administrator revokes a voucher(s), they must
provide written notice to:

              1.   The resident in a manner that explains that reasons for the revocation; and

             11.  Trans-Jordan's Executive Director in a manner that identifies the affected
           voucher numbers.

2.02 .080 - Appeals

       Residents may appeal any decision by the Voucher Administrator, written or verbal , to the
Council within ten (10) days, provided that the appeal is made in writing to the Council Chair. The
Council will review such appeals at its next regularly scheduled meeting and, by majority vote,
may affirm, amend, reverse, or take any other action it deems appropriate with respect to a decision
made by the Voucher Administrator under this ordinance.

2.02.090 - Annual Review

       The Council will review this Chapter on an annual basis to determine if changes are needed.
