s~   '   It.




                                       COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL

                                                  ORDINANCE #2018-01-03
                                                     January 17, 2018

                AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING PURCHASING AUTHORITY AND ESTABLISHING
               CERTAIN OPERATING PROCEDURES FOR THE BINGHAM CANYON CEMETERY
                                           BOARD

               BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Copperton Metro Township Council
               ("Council") met in a regular public meeting on January 18, 2018

                                                           WITNESS

                     WHEREAS, in 2017, the Copperton Metro Township ("Copperton") acquired title to the
               Bingham Cemetery ("Cemetery") from the Jordan School District; and

                      WHEREAS, pursuant to Ordinance # 17-04-01, the Council formed the Bingham Canyon
               Cemetery Board ("Board") to handle the day-to-day operations and maintenance of the Cemetery
               under the direction and supervision of the Council; and

                      WHEREAS, in obtaining title to the Cemetery, Copperton also acquired an escrow fund
               from the Jordan School District to pay for expenses related to the operation and maintenance of
               the Cemetery; and

                      WHEREAS, due to then-existing questions about the authority of metro townships to hold
               banking accounts, Copperton entered into an interlocal agreement ("Agreement") with the Greater
               Salt Lake Municipal Services District (the "District") in which the District agreed to hold the
               escrow funds in a special revenue fund reserved solely for the purpose of operating and
               maintaining the Cemetery; and

                      WHEREAS, the Agreement requires the Council to review and approve any and all
               expenses incurred by the Board in operating and maintaining the Cemetery, and to obtain payment
               from the District by submitting written requests for approved expenses along with applicable
               invoices or other evidence of the expenses incurred; and

                     WHEREAS, the Board is developing policies and procedures regarding how it will operate
               and maintain the Cemetery that it will submit for approval to the Council; and

                       WHEREAS, while the Board is preparing the necessary policies and procedures, it requires
               certain authorizations from the Council regarding its ability to incur expenses in order to operate
               and maintain the Cemetery for the good of Cemetery patrons and the community; and.

                       WHEREAS, to ensure proper Council oversight of the Board, the Council desires to enact
               the provisions set forth below in this ordinance regarding the Cemetery's finances and operations.



                                                                               Ordinance # 2018-01-03 Page 1 of 3
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP
COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:


       ( 1)   The Board will develop annual budgets for the operation and maintenance of the
Cemetery and will develop and submit said budgets to the Council for review and approval in
accordance with timelines the Council will establish; and

       (2)    The Council will appoint one of its members to:

              a.      Oversee the Board and act as a liaison ("Liaison") between the Council and
       the Board on all matters involving the Cemetery;

             b.       Act on behalf of the Council in reviewing and approving "small
       expenditures," as that term is defined herein, that the Board may incur; and

              c.      Act on behalf of the Council in submitting to the District for payment all
       expenditures the Board may incur in accordance with the Agreement and this Ordinance;
       and

      (3)     The following provisions will apply to "small expenditures," which are defined as
expenditures of up to two-thousand dollars ($2,000) for day-to-day operations and maintenance:

               a.     The Board will have authority to transact small expenditures without
       obtaining pre-approval from the Council; and

              b.     The Board will submit the invoices and other related documentation for any
       small expenditures to the Liaison for review, approval, and submission to the District in
       accordance with the Agreement and this Ordinance.

       (4)     The following provisions will apply to any expenditure that exceeds or is expected
to exceed two thousand dollars ($2,000):

              a.      Before the Board may incur any expenditure under this section:

                           i.       The Board must submit a request for the expenditure to the
                      Council through the Liaison; and

                            11.      The Council must approve the Board's request for the
                      expenditure.

              b.      After the Board has incurred an expense that the Council has approved
       under this section, the Board will provide all related invoices and documentation to the
       Liaison, who will request payment from the District in accordance with the Agreement and



                                                                Ordinance # 2018-01-03 Page 2 of 3
       this Ordinance, provided that the Liaison must first review the invoices and documentation
       provided to ensure compliance with the Council's approval of the expenditure.

        (5)     If the Liaison or Council has questions or concerns about any expenditure incurred
by the Board, the Liaison and the Council may take any and all lawful actions necessary to resolve
the question or concern and to ensure compliance with the Agreement, this Ordinance, and any
applicable law.

         (6)     The Board will report all expenditures and provide an overview of all Cemetery
activities to the Council on at least a quarterly basis, or more frequently as the Council may require.

       (7)    The Board will prepare rules and procedures to govern the operation and
maintenance of the Cemetery and will submit such rules and procedures to the Council for its
review and approval in accordance with a timeline that the Council will establish.

       (8)    The Council may require the Liaison to seek payment of Cemetery expenses from
appropriate amounts in Copperton's budget instead of seeking payment from th,e escrow fund.
                                                             I                  •   •




ATTEST:



                     21uti/¼t1        b,r:::::::::::,


Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township Recorder


VOTING


Council Member Bailey voting             Yea

Council Member Clayton voting            Yea

Council Member Pazell voting             Yea

Council Member Patrick voting            Yea

Council Member Severson voting           Yea




                                                                   Ordinance # 2018-01-03 Page 3 of 3
