                       COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP ClOUNCIL
                               ORDINANCE# 2017- \_1-::0
                                 December 20, 2017

     AN ORDINANCE GOVERNING THE ISSUANCE OF VOUCHERS ALLOWING
   COPPERTON RESIDENTS TO DISPOSE OF HOUSEHOLD SOLID WASTE AT THE
                       TRANS-JORDAN LANDFILL

BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Copperton Metro Township Council (the
"Council") met in a regular public meeting on December 20, 2017.

                                            WITNESS

        A.      WHEREAS, on December 14, 1993, Kennecott Utah Copper Corporation entered
into the attached agreement (the "Agreement") with the predecessors-in-interest of the Trans-
Jordan Landfill ("Trans-Jordan"); and

       B.       WHEREAS, Article 7.4 of the Agreement and the associated warranty deed that
conveyed title to Trans-Jordan provide: "For so long as the Property shall be used as a landfill,
Grantee her by grants to the residents of the community of Copperton the right to dispose of solid
household waste and refuse upon the Property, in compliance with the rules and regulations of
the landfill, and the same will be handled and disposed of in the same manner as materials
brought upon the Property by Grantee, all without cost to the residents of Copperton;" and

        C.     WHEREAS, residents of the Copperton Metro Township ("Copperton") are
third-party beneficiaries of the Agreement; and

        D.      WHEREAS, Trans-Jordan has indicated that it has experienced difficulties in
verifying the residency of individuals claiming to be Copperton residents and situations in which
individuals have sought to dispose of waste that does not qualify as household solid waste and
refuse; and

        E.      WHEREAS, the Copperton Metro Township Council has determined that it is
better positioned that Trans-Jordan to verify the residency of Copperton's citizens; and

       F.      WHEREAS, Section 10-8-83 of the Utah Code authorizes the Council to enact
ordinances, rules, and regulations "that are necessary and proper to ... promote the prosperity ...
peace and good order, comfort, and convenience of the [the metro township] and its inhabitants,"
among other things; and

       G.     WHEREAS, to assist Trans-Jordan in fulfilling its obligations under the
Agreement and the warranty deed and to limit future controversies and conflict over the right of
Copperton residents to dispose of waste at Trans-Jordan without cost, Trans-Jordan and the
Copperton Metro Township Council have developed a procedure by which the Council will issue
vouchers to Copperton residents entitling them to dispose of household solid waste at Trans-
                                                               Ordinance # 2017-\}---0)Page 1 of9
Jordan; and

       H.      WHEREAS, the Council may issue multiple vouchers to each household, but each
voucher will entitle a Copperton resident to dispose of up to 600 pounds of household solid
waste and refuse per trip; and

        I.      WHEREAS, under this ordinance, the Council will verify the residency of
Copperton citizens and issue vouchers that will entitle Copperton residents to dispose of
household solid waste and refuse without any further determinations by Trans-Jordan regarding
an individual's residency status; and

        J.      WHEREAS, individuals who are unable to provide Trans-Jordan with a voucher
will be either disallowed from dumping, or will be allowed to pay full landfill rates if they desire;
and

       K.      WHEREAS, it is the mutual understanding of the Council and Trans-Jordan that
they will implement this voucher procedure on a trial basis and will make changes, if necessary;
and

       L.      WHEREAS, the Council desires to enact an ordinance to set forth a uniform
procedure to govern how it will verify the residency of Copperton residents and issue vouchers;
and

        M.     WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the attached ordinance, which Copperton's
legal counsel has prepared, and has determined that the ordinance will promote the prosperity,
peace and good order, comfort, and convenience of Copperton and its residents.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP AS FOLLOWS:

       1.     The Council finds that the attached ordinance will promote the prosperity, peace
and good order, comfort, and convenience of Copperton and its residents; and

       2.      The attached ordinance will take effect on January 1, 2018; and

       3.       The Council will review the attached ordinance as well as the overall voucher
procedure after one ( 1) year to determine if changes are needed.

                                  [Signatures on following page]




                                                                Ordinance# 2017~1-h~Page 2 of 9
Al'PROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township, Salt Lake County, Utah this
 '1D dayo f l:)f(@bif 20 17.



                                            Ron Patrick, Council Chair


ATTEST:



' ~ iJ.b
       ~·•Jil/J
             ~ --
Sherne Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township Recorder


VOTING

Council Member Bailey voting

Council Member Baxter voting

Council Member Clayton voting

Council Member Patrick voting

Council Member Stitzer voting




                                                     Ordinance # 2017-_   Page 3 of 9
Title 2 - COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL

Chapter 2.02 - COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION OF TRANS-JORDAN LANDFILL
VOUCHERS

2.02-010-Definitions

Whenever used in this Chapter:

"Agreement" means Article 7.4 of the Agreement dated December 14, 1993 between Kennecott
Utah Copper Corporation and Trans-Jordan's predecessors in interest, which provides:

       For so long as the Property shall be used as a landfill, Purchaser shall grant the
       residents of the community of Copperton the right to dispose of solid household
       waste and refuse upon the Property, in compliance with the rules and regulations
       of the landfill, and the same will be handled and disposed of in the same manner
       as materials brought upon the Property by Purchaser, all without cost to the
       residents of the community of Copperton.

"Trans-Jordan" means the Trans-Jordan Landfill


2.02.020 Purpose

       This ordinance is intended to govern the process by which the Council will determine the
residency of Copperton citizens for the purpose of issuing vouchers allowing them to dispose of
household solid waste at Trans-Jordan pursuant to the Agreement.


2.02-030- Voucher(s) Required

       Any individual seeking to dispose of household solid waste at Trans-Jordan without cost
pursuant to the Agreement must present a voucher issued pursuant to this ordinance at the Trans-
Jordan gatehouse. No other documentation will be accepted to establish residency for the
purposes of the Agreement. If an individual is unable to present a voucher, Trans-Jordan may
disallow the individual from dumping, or allow the individual to dump the waste by paying
regular landfill rates. Vouchers will be surrendered upon redemption at the Trans-Jordan
scalehouse.


2.02.040 - Household Solid Waste Only


                                                             Ordinance # 201 7-_     Page 4 of 9
      A.      Limitation: Under the Agreement, Copperton residents may only dispose of solid
household waste at Trans-Jordan without cost.

       B.      Definition: For the purposes of this ordinance, household waste means waste that
is household in nature and originates from Copperton residences, and not from a commercial
business or other enterprise, whether based in Copperton or elsewhere. Household waste also
does not include the following, which are excluded from the voucher program and subject to
Trans-Jordan's standard rules, regulations, and fees, where applicable:

               1. Household Hazardous Waste is always accepted by Trans-Jordan free of
           charge and must be separated from a disposal load of household waste;

               2. Electronic Recycling (E-Waste) is always accepted free of charge by Trans-
           Jordan;

               3. Tire Disposal;

               4. Freon Extraction ( e.g., refrigerators, freezers, and portable air conditioning
           units); and

              5. Mattresses - up to three mattresses may be disposed of for free under the
           voucher program. A per mattress surcharge will apply to mattresses above three
           mattresses.

               6. Household Recycling - (i.e. plastic containers, cardboard, paper, steel and
           aluminum cans, and glass) is always accepted by Trans-Jordan free of charge for
           placement into recycling bins.

2.02.050 - Voucher Administrator

       A.       Appointment: Each year, the Council will appoint two of its members to serve as
a Voucher Administrator and Assistant Voucher Administrator to carry out the responsibilities
authorized in this Chapter in consultation with the Council.

       B.     Responsibilities: In addition to the other responsibilities authorized in this
Chapter, the Voucher Administrator will:

                1. Bear primary responsibility for carrying out the responsibilities authorized in
           this Chapter, provided that the Voucher Administrator may delegate such
           responsibilities to the Assistant Voucher as the Voucher Administrator deems
           appropriate.

               2. Keep the Council reasonably informed of any problems or other issues
           associated with this ordinance, providing at least quarterly reports to the Council on
           the operation of this ordinance; and
                                                                Ordinance# 2017-_        Page 5 of9
               3. Act as the Council's liaison with Trans-Jordan for the purposes of this
           ordinance, which will include, at a minimum:

                     a. Keeping the Trans-Jordan Executive Director appraised of the
                  Voucher Administrator's current telephone number and email address;

                      b. Receive feedback and reports of incidents involving possible
                  violations of this ordinance from the Trans-Jordan Executive Director (or
                  authorized Trans-Jordan representative), and investigate such incidents as may
                  be necessary, and

                      c. Request vouchers from Trans-Jordan, as needed.

2.02.060 - Verifying Residency

       A.     Documents Needed to Establish Residency: Except as otherwise provided, the
Voucher Administrator will issue a voucher(s) to any individual who provides any two of the
following documents, which must include the individual's name and list their address as either
"Copperton" or "Bingham Canyon," Utah:

               1. A valid, unexpired Utah driver's license, U.S. passport, or U.S. passport card
           (only one of these documents will be accepted);

               2. A Bank statement (dated within 60 days);

               3. Court documents (issued within last year);

              4. A major credit card bill (dated within 60 days);

               5. Property tax notice (statement or receipt dated within one year);

              6. School transcript (dated within 90 days); or

              7. Utility bill (billing date within 60 days).

        B.      Alternative Process for Establish ing Residency: If an individual is unable to
provide the documents listed in Article 2(C), the Voucher Administrator will make a reasonable
effort to consider other documentation or information to verify the individual's residency status
and exercise their best judgment to determine whether or not the individual qualifies as a
Copperton resident for the purposes of this ordinance.

       C.      Determination of Non-Residency: If the Voucher Administrator declines to issue
a voucher for failure to establish residency, they must provide the individual with a written
explanation of the reasons for the determination.
                                                                Ordinance # 201 7-_   Page 6 of 9
2.02.070- Vouchers

      A.       Weight Limit: A voucher will entitle its holder to dispose of up to 600 pounds of
household waste per trip without cost at Trans-Jordan. Residents may request multiple vouchers,
provided that residents will only be able to use one voucher per trip.

      B.          Form: E ach voucher issued will be in substantially the following form:




                                                         Validfor Copperton Residents Only
                 Voucher Example -
                       Front                            Expires December 31, 2018

                Use this voucher for one (1) load of waste, up to 600 lbs, (equivalent of one pickup
                      truck or pickup truck sized trailer) for disposal at Trans-Jordan Landfill.

                                                    One voucher per load or transaction .

                                                               Voucher #000
                                             Landfill Location: 10473 S. Bacchus Hwy (U-111)
                                                                                                                                    0/jitl.! us~ 011(1'
                                         Landfill Hours: Monday-Saturday     7:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m .                                     r1uck # 400
                                                    See Reversl15ide For User Rules and Re,pansibiliti es




                                     VOUCHER USE-RULES                               & RESPONSIBILITES
            •    All lo;.1d$must be fully larped and secured or \Ouchcr ·will he inv:1lidalcdand a douhk foe will apply.
            •    Voucher only '-.,liJ on ,.fo,posallo.id~,not valid on pmdt.i:-c or product (i.~ compost & woodchipsJ.
            •    LoaJs n.mst originate from the user's personal residence (within Coppeuon) and be accompanied by this voucheL
            •    User must fr,llow instructions gi\'cll by 1.mdiillpersonnel and ;11:,i<lc
                                                                                        by nil landfill 111Jcs.
            •    All ,·ouchers arl!'numbered and "ill be tracked and v1~idl!'d upon rl!dcmptiou.
            •    Vouchers ;u-eissued on~ pt'r Coppe11onhousehold :md are non•lrnnslerrable~                        Voucher Example                    -
                 Loi.Idsnot accomp:1nicdby i.l vm1chcrwill be chmS"d at n!gul:u rate;:.                                   Back
                 No copies 01· facsimiles are permitted.


                                                LANDFILL RATES & SERVICES
                                 Cop1u.>1·to11
                                            residf.!11(s
                                                      should be a11·artJthat some special wa.rn.>s
                                                                                                r1..•q11i/'f!
                                                                                                        additionai handling mu(
                                  are 11oti11c!miedi11the i'o11cl1t!,.
                                                                    pmgmm The mos, common of these 11·ct.Hes  are lisu.:dbelow.
                                             (~// ow· scalflhouseat 801-569-899.Jif you /l(lvecu/ditio11alqm•sliorts,
            •     Disposal R:nes:
                           rrnsh-$30 per tun with an SI O minimum G1ccnwnste-S l2 per 1011 wilh .-i $6 minimum
            •     Jlc-. sid,~111i11lI Iouschold Haza rdous W:tstc (HI-l\V) is ncccptcd free of chargt>. Ntusl he :-cparnted from <lispos,11load _
                  Hni,/1•,rf;,,J Electronic Recycling (E-scrap) is acceplcd lr.::c:of ~harg.e.
                  U1.1,l1!l!1 ,1i,,,T ir~ Di!,-posal: S2.00 off1h" rim and S3 on thl."rim with o maximum of 4 lircs per resident.
            •     Jr,•~i,/,,,llh jl / reon Extrncdon: Residential units (e.g. 1efrigeralors. freezers & portoble a/c units) \\ill be clrnrgi:d
                  $12 per unit.
                              11i,II J\taltre:-sc-s: S 15 surcharg...--per mnllrcss upplit.~st(u· more than lhriec mattrcssc'i-.
                  ll r ,"i.l1h•1

                                       Rate/ii & Services Sul?ject to Clumge without Notice

                                                                                                           Ordinance# 2017-                               Page 7 of9
      C.       Requests for Vouchers:

               1. Each Voucher Administrator designated by the Board will develop the process
           and manner by which residents may request vouchers, subject the Council's review
           and approval of said process.

               2. Except as otherwise provided herein, a resident who satisfies the requirements
           of Article 3 may request two (2) vouchers per month. The Voucher Administrator will
           consider requests for vouchers in excess of this amount on a case-by-case basis.

       C.       Ledger: The Voucher Administrator will maintain a ledger that will include the
name, address, and serial number of each voucher issued to a resident, as well as a signed
acknowledgement by the resident that failure to abide by these terms and conditions may result
in the revocation of a voucher( s) or the refusal of the Voucher Administrator and the Council to
issue further vouchers. The form of the ledger entries will be substantially as follows:

      Entry Number _______________                               _ __      ______               _
      Voucher Number - - -----------                        ----------                           -
      Resident Name: ----------------                               ----            -    ----
      Resident Address:
                         -------------                       - ----------
      Date Issued:
                   ----------------                            - -------                        - -
      Acknowledgment: By receiving and accepting this voucher I agree to abide by all
      terms and conditions contained on the voucher. I further acknowledge that failure
      to abide by these terms and conditions and discourteous treatment of Trans-Jordan
      personnel may result in the revocation of this voucher and any other voucher(s)
      issued in my name.

      Signed    and   acknowledged       this        day    of                          20_,         by


        D.      Revocation: If the Voucher Administrator receives a complaint from Trans-Jordan
associated with a resident as identified by a specific voucher number, the Voucher Administrator
will exercise due diligence to investigate the complaint. If the Voucher Administrator determines
that the resident has violated the terms of this ordinance, the Voucher Administrator may, in their
discretion, may issue a written warning, revoke any voucher(s) issued to the resident, and/or
refuse to issue additional vouchers until such time as the resident as demonstrated to the Voucher
Administrator that they are willing and capable of complying with this ordinance and the terms
and conditions of the voucher. If the Voucher Administrator revokes a voucher(s), they must
                                                                 Ordinance # 2017-_              Page 8 of 9
provide written notice to:

               1. The resident in a manner that explains that reasons for the revocation; and

              2. Trans-Jordan's Executive Director in a manner that identifies the affected
           voucher numbers.


2.02.080 - Appeals

        Residents may appeal any decision by the Voucher Administrator, written or verbal, to
the Council within ten (10) days, provided that the appeal is made in writing to the Council
Chair. The Council will review such appeals at its next regularly scheduled meeting and, by
majority vote, may affirm, amend, reverse, or take any other action it deems appropriate with
respect to a decision made by the Voucher Administrator under this ordinance.

2.02.090-Annual Review

       The Council will review this Chapter on an annual basis to determine if changes are
needed.




                                                              Ordinance# 2017-_       Page 9 of9
MEMBERCITTES                                                                                                     N
DRAPER MIDVALE MURRAY RIVERTON SANDY SOUTH JORDAN WEST JORDAN




                                                                                      Mailing:
      December 18, 2017                                                               PO Box95610
                                                                                      South Jordan UT 84095-0610

                                                                                      Shipping:
                                                                                      10473 S Bacchus Hwy (U-111)
     Mr. Nathan Bracken , Counsel                                                     South Jordan UT 84009-6002
     Copperton Metro Township
                                                                                      Phone: 801-569-8994
     c/o Smith Hartvigsen PLLC
                                                                                      Fax:    801-352-0578
     257 E. 200 South, Suite 500
                                                                                      www.transjorclan.org
     Salt Lake City , UT 84111

     - Sent Via Email -

     Dear Mr. Bracken & Members of Copperton Metro Township Council :

     Trans-Jordan Cities is obligated by our land contract with Kennecott Utah Copper to provide household
     waste disposal at no cost to the residents of City of Copperton ("the City"). In managing this obligation
     over the years, we had reached a point where the numerous problems with fulfill ing our obligation were
     negatively affecting our facility and staff as well as our relationship with many residents of the City.

     I am pleased that the City has engaged in formalizing a process of issuing vouchers through creation of
     a City Ordinance. The Ordinance describes a process by which residents may receive a voucher from
     an administrator , who screens the request and issues voucher. This takes the management and
     verification burden away from the Trans-Jordan Scalehouse staff and places it with the City, while
     maintaining a process that is fair and equitable to the residents of Copperton who wish to dispose of
     their household waste.

     Trans-Jordan Cities endorses and will support the Ordinance developed by the City. We have agreed
     to the conditions of the ordinance , and will work with the City to provide feedback as the program
     becomes established so that we can continually improve the ease of transaction while providing the
     service to the residents of Copperton .

     I will remain personally involved with the oversight of this program on behalf of the Landfill, so please
     feel free to call or email me with any questions or comments you may have.

     Sincerely,
     TRANS-JORDAN CITIES

                  I   . . '!
      ,· --1; 1'.' ,1;i' .
        • {. \' ~(. ·.tt--i<..~
                              (, ··\
              '       ,'   •   \       J

                      J


     Mark Hooyer
     Executive Director




                                           ,   Printed 011 Recycled Paper
