                      COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
                              ORDINANCE # 2017- ~ Q \
                                November 15, 2017

    AN ORDINANCE ENACTING BUSINESS LICENSE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE
                    COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP

BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Copperton Metro Township Council (the
"Council") met in a regular public meeting on November 15, 2017.

                                           WITNESS

        A.      WHEREAS, the Copperton Metro Township ("Copperton") was established to
give the residents of Copperton greater control over the affairs of their community; and

      B.       WHEREAS, Section 10-8-4 authorizes Copperton to "fix the amount, terms, and
manner of issuing licenses;" and

        C.      WHEREAS, until such time as the Council enacts Copperton-specific business
licenses, the ordinances of Salt Lake County (the "County"), as set forth in Title 5 of the Salt
Lake County Municipal Code, will regulate business licenses within Copperton; and

        D.     WHEREAS, the Council finds that the County's ordinances regarding business
licenses do not currently account for the creation of Copperton or the other metro townships; and

       E.       WHEREAS, County staff has prepared the attached revised version of Title 5 to
make the title a stand-alone, Copperton-specific ordinance; and

       F.        WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the revised version of Title 5 and desires
to adopt it as a stand-alone, Copperton-specific ordinance, pending reformatting to designate the
ordinance as Title 1, Chapter 1 of the Copperton Metro Township Municipal Code; and

        G.       WHEREAS, the Council desires to review this ordinance after one year to
determine if additional changes are needed to better address the needs and interests of Copperton
and its residents.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL                                      OF THE
COPPERTON METRO TOWNSHIP AS FOLLOWS:

        1.      Pursuant to Section 10-8-4 of the Utah Code, the Council hereby adopts the
attached, revised version of Title 5 of the Salt Lake County Municipal Code as a stand-alone,
Copperton-specific ordinance.

       2.      The Council instructs the County staff assigned to Copperton to reformat the
ordinance as Title 1, Chapter 1 of the Copperton Metro Township Municipal Code.
                                                             Ordinance # 2017-\ \ ~t)\ Page 1 of 58
       3.     This ordinance will take effect when County staff have reformatted the chapter
headings.

       4.     The Council will review the ordinance after one year to determine if further
changes are needed to better address the needs and interests of Copperton and its residents.


APPROVED AND ADOPTED in the Copperton Metro Township , Salt Lake County, Utah this
J.5.._ day of Nl'i £\J'N;
                        .£f 2017.


                                                 Ron Patrick, CouncilCh ili


;!/}/lg,,,',
s
          J?.,wb_
              ,__,--
  errie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Copperton Metro Township Recorder


VOTING

Council Member Bailey voting

Council Member Baxter voting

Council Member Clayton voting

Council Member Patrick voting

Council Member Stitzer voting




                                                          Ordinance # 2017-ll:.o_\Page 2 of 58
Title 1 - BUSINESS LICENSES AND REGULATIONS
Chapters:

Chapter 1.01 - LICENSE OFFICE AND LICENSE OFFICIAL
Sections:

1.01.010 - Definitions.
     Whenever used in this title:
     "Alcoholic beverages" means and includes beer and liquor, as they are defined herein.
      "Beer" means and includes "light beer," "malt liquor," or "malted beverages," and all products that contain
63/ 100 of one percent of alcohol by volume or one-half of one percent of alcohol by weight, but not more than four
percent of alcohol by volume or 3.2 percent by weight, and are obtained by fermentation, infusion or decoction of
any malted grain. Beer may or may not contain hops or other vegetable products.
      "Beer-only restaurant" means a place of business in connection with a bona fide restaurant wherein beer is sold
for consumption on the premises in open containers in any size not to exceed two liters capacity and on draft, in
conjunction with an order of food that is prepared, sold and served at the restaurant.
     "Club, Dining" means a club that has dining facilities and maintains at least sixty percent of its sales from food,
and which operates under a State Club Liquor License issued pursuant to Utah Code Part 328-6-4.
    "Club, Equity" means a club that is owned by its members and run by a board of directors elected by the
members , such as a country club, and which operates under a State Club Liquor License issued pursuant to Utah
Code Part 328-6-4 .
     "Club, Fraternal" means a mutual benefit or patriotic association that is organized under a lodge system, and
which operates under a State Club Liquor License issued pursuant to Utah Code Part 328-6-4.
     "Club, Social" means a general purpose club, which includes a nightclub that serves liquor, in which a variety
of food is prepared and served in connection with dining accommodations, and which operates under a State Club
Liquor License issued pursuant to Utah Code Part 328-6-4.
      "Director" means the director of Salt Lake County planning and development services, or a designated agent of
the director.
     "License department" means the license office of the county planning and development services division of
Public Works and Municipal Services.
     "License official" means the director of Salt Lake County planning and development services, or a designated
agent of the director.
     "Liquor" means :
     I.     Alcohol, or an alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented malt or other liquid, or combination of liquids, a
            part of which is spirituous, vinous or fermented, and all other drinks or drinkable liquids that contain
            more than one-half of one percent of alcohol by volume and are suitable to use for beverage purposes.
     2.     "Liquor" does not include any beverage defined as a beer, malt liquor or malted beverage that has an
            alcohol content of less than four percent alcohol by volume.
     "Metro" means the Copperton Metro Township.
     "Metro chair" means the chairperson of the Copperton Metro Township Council.
     "Metro council" means the Copperton Metro Township Council.
      "On-premise beer tavern" means a tavern, beer bar, parlor, lounge, cabaret, or nightclub where only beer is sold
for consumption on the premises in any size of open container not exceeding two liters, on draft, and where the
revenue from the sale of beer exceeds the revenue of the sale of food, although food need not be sold in such
establishments .
      "Resort license establishment" means a resort building affiliated with a ski area that abuts the building , which
building has at least four hundred thousand square feet, and one hundred fifty dwellings or lodging accommodations
of which fifty percent must be owned by a person other than the resort licensee , and which has a state license for the
storage, sale, service, and consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises.

1.01.030 - License official-Powers               and duties.
      The license official shall assess each licensee in accordance with the provisions of this title and applicable
statutes of Utah, shall receive all license fees required herein to be paid, and shall keep and maintain a suitable index
of licensees.

Chapter 1.02 - PROCEDURE FOR OBTAINING LICENSE
Sections:


1.02.010 - License-Required              to carry on business.
A.   Unless exempted by state or federal law, it is unlawful for any person to engage in or operate any business in
     the metro, or to use any property for such business , without first obtaining the required license from the license
     official. Independent contractors are required to obtain their own business license .
B.   This title shall not apply to lemonade stands and similar operations run by children.

1.02.020 - Persons subject to licensing.
A.   Any person or corporation engaged in a business or occupation , or which performs or attempts to perform a
     business or occupation in the metro, shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter if, either personally or
     through an agent, employee or partner , the person or corporation actively or passively solicits patronage
     therefor. Independent contractors are individually subject to this chapter.
B.   For purposes of this section, a business includes rental of three or more residential dwellings at the same
     location.

1.02.030 - License-Application-Contents.
A.   In the absence of clear provisions to the contrary in specific chapters of this title, all applications for licenses
     and permits required by ordinance shall be made in writing to the license official. Each application shall
     provide all the following information:
     1.     The name of the business;
     2.     The name of the applicant;
     3.     The permit or license desired;
     4.     The location to be used , if any ;
     5.     The time covered and the fee to be paid ;
     6.     The name and address of the business agent residing in the county who is authorized to receive:
            a.   Service of process , and
            b.   Any communication regarding applicant's license via certified mail, return receipt requested.
     7.     Such additional information as may be needed to assist the license official in issuing the permit or license.
B.   Any change in the above information furnished by the license applicant shall be forwarded , in writing, within
     ten calendar days of the change , to the license official.
C.   Forms for all license and permits, and applications therefor, shall be prepared and kept on file by the license
     official.

1.02.040 - License-Application-Fees,                 penalties and waivers.
A.   Each application for a license under this title shall be accompanied by the license fee required for the desired
     license .
B.   In addition to the license fee regularly assessed , any applicant which shall have commenced doing business
     prior to obtaining a valid license shall be assessed a penalty fee equal to:
     l.   Twenty-five percent of the regular license fee if the applicant has operated without a license for less than
          thirty days, or
     2.   One hundred percent of the regular license fee if the applicant has operated without a license for more
          than thirty days during the year in question .
C.   Any license which has been issued pursuant to payment by means of a check shall be void if such check is not
     honored.
D.   Applications received by the license official shall be numbered in the order of their receipt.
E.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (B), above, the imposition of penalty fees may be waived for:
     I.   New businesses which have located in the metro and have not obtained a business license; and
     2.   Existing businesses which have been licensed by the license official and have been purchased by a new
          owner who has not reapplied for a business license.
     3.   Penalty fees may be waived only upon the following conditions:
          a.    The business makes application for a business license within seven calendar days after being
                notified by the license official that such a license is required; or the business voluntarily makes
                application for a business license prior to notification by the license official; and
          b.    The business has either been located in the metro for less than two years or the purchase of the
                business occurred less than two years prior to the business application.
F.   Business license fees which are due for the current year or for prior years in which the business operated may
     not be waived under any circumstances.
1.02.050 - Fees not to be refunded.
     No license fee, or any part thereof, shall be refunded for any reason whatsoever, once the license has been
granted or issued.
1.02.060 - Application fee refunds.
A.   If a license is denied for any reason , the applicant shall be entitled to a refund equal to the amount that
     accompanied the application .
B.   If, prior to a license being granted or issued, the application for a license is withdrawn by the applicant for any
     reason, the sum of twenty-five dollars, or the total amount paid if less than twenty-five dollars, shall be
     retained by the license official to offset the cost of processing the application. However, the metro council may
     exercise discretion, to refund the entire application fee if deemed appropriate under the circumstances.

1.02.070 - Investigation of applicant.
A.   Subject to section (B), where ordinances of the metro require an inspection or investigation before issuance of
     a permit or license, the license official shall conduct such investigation within seven calendar days of the
     applicant's filing of the application.
B.   Except as provided in subsection (B)(l) below, when adequate investigation requires correspondence with
     agencies or other sources of information outside the planning and development services division, or the license
     applicant is not ready to be inspected, such investigation shall be completed within fifteen calendar days of the
     applicant's filing of the application, or as soon as the license applicant is ready to be inspected.
     1.   When local law enforcement investigates the applicant , it shall complete its investigation within thirty
          calendar days of the applicant's filing of the application. For such investigations , the applicant shall
          provide a current copy of a criminal background check conducted by the Utah Bureau of Criminal
          Identification (BCI).
C.   The agency charged with conducting the investigation or inspection shall report the findings and
     recommendations of the agency to the license official within seven calendar days after conducting the
     investigation or inspection.

1.02.080 - License-Application-.
A.   Applications sha11be submitted to the license official, unless ordinances or policies of the metro require that
     the application be first referred to another agency, such as the local law enforcement agency, Salt Lake County
     Health Department, local fire agency, or other appropriate official or body for investigation.
B.   The license official may within seven calendar days after receipt of the application submit the application for
     additional investigation to one or more of the agencies listed in (A), above, if, in the opinion of the license
     official, further investigation is warranted. Any such submittal shall include the license official's specific
     concerns warranting further investigation. The purpose(s) for the investigation may include:
     I.   The general reputation of the licensee, including whether licensee has any outstanding arrest warrants,
     2.   Whether such business is or has been conducted in a lawful manner,
     3.   The health and safety of the premises on which the business in conducted,
     4.    Other facts that the license official should know in acting upon the application, or
     5.    Investigation regarding specific concerns raised by the license official under Section l.02.080(8).

1.02.100 - Report of investigations.
      Upon being requested to do so by the license official, the local law enforcement agency, Salt Lake County
Health Department, local fire agency, or any other official or department so requested shall, within the time required
by Section I .02.070, conduct the investigation and inspection provided for in this chapter and submit to the license
official a report on such investigation and inspection, and may provide recommendations as to whether the license
should be granted or denied.

1.02.110 - License-Application-Action                 by license official.
A.   After receipt of the report, and if applicable the recommendations, of the local law enforcement agency, Salt
     Lake County Health Department, local fire agency or other official or body, the license official sha11grant or
     deny the application as is just and proper, or may order further information or investigation if such appears
     necessary.
B.   If the agency charged with conducting an investigation or inspection has not issued a report of its findings and
     recommendations to the license official within the timeframes required by this chapter, the license official may
     grant or deny the application without the report.

1.02.120 - Compliance with building and zoning requirements.
A.   No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no permit shall be issued for any activity if the
     premises and building to be used for the purposes do not fully comply with the requirements of the metro.
B.   No license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or performance of any act that would
     violate building or zoning ordinances of the metro.

1.02.130 - License-Application-Approval.
     The license official shall issue license certificates.

1.02.140 - License-Application-Denial                 conditions-Appeals.
A.   The license official may deny a license or a license renewal if the applicant has:
     l.    Been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude;
     2.    Obtained a license by fraud or deceit;
     3.    Failed to pay personal property taxes, Utah state sales taxes, or other required fees;
     4.    Violated the laws of the state, the United States Government, the ordinances of the metro, or the rules and
           regulations of any local government or Utah state agency governing operation of the business holding the
           license or permit; or
     5.   An outstanding warrant for his or her arrest.
B.   The reason for denial shall be endorsed on the license or renewal application and the license official shall
     return to the applicant, via certified mail, any excess fees deposited with the application.
C.   Notice shall be given that the applicant may appeal a denial within fourteen calendar days and appear before
     the metro council or a licensed hearing examiner in accordance with Section 1.02.140 through 1.02.180, below,
     to present reasons for setting aside denial of a license or renewal.
D.   If the applicant presents adequate justification, the metro council may, in its discretion, set aside the denial and
     approve the application.
     I.   Examples of "adequate justification" include but are not limited to:
          a.    The passage of a long period of time since the inappropriate or illegal act was committed;
          b.    Youth or immaturity of the applicant when the inappropriate or illegal act was committed;
          c.    Acts committed by others over whom the applicant lacked control.
          d.    Any error by the license official relating to taxes or other required fees or in determining that any
                law or ordinance has been violated;
          e.    A disaster or Act of God precluding timely payment of taxes or other required fees, or making
                compliance with any law or ordinance impossible; or
          f.    A good faith and reasonable dispute, not yet resolved, between the licensee and the license official
                regarding the imposition or amount of taxes or other required fees, or of the application of a
                particular law or ordinance.

1.02.150 - Appeal hearings.
A.   Hearings on appeals to consider the revocation, suspension or denial of licenses shall be held by or at the
     direction of the metro council. Notwithstanding the provisions of any other ordinance pertaining to hearings
     before the metro council regarding business licenses, such hearings may be held either before the metro council
     or before any hearing examiner who has been appointed by the metro council pursuant to Section 1.02.160.
B.   The applicant may appear in person, or through an officer, agent, or attorney, to introduce evidence in the
     applicant's behalf, and to confront and cross-examine witnesses. Any oral or documentary evidence may be
     received, but all privileged, irrelevant, immaterial or unduly repetitious evidence may be excluded.
C.   An official record, which may be transcribed when necessary, shall be kept of each hearing.

1.02.160 - Hearings-Hearing           examiner powers and duties.
A.   The metro council may appoint one or more hearing examiners.
8.   Any hearing examiner acting at the direction of the metro council shall have the power and authority to preside
     at and conduct hearings on appeal to consider the suspension, revocation or denial of licenses issued by the
     license official, including the power to examine witnesses and receive evidence, compel the attendance of
     witnesses, and compel the production of documents.
C.   Hearing examiners acting at the direction of the metro council shall have the authority to recommend findings
     of fact, conclusions of law and orders, all based upon the evidence and testimony received, and shall transmit
     to the metro council for review and final approval such recommended findings, etc.
D.   The hearing examiner shall provide to the metro council a certified record of the entire proceedings.

1.02.170 - Hearings-Orders          by metro council.
A.   After a hearing on appeal to consider the status of any license has been held by the metro council, the metro
     council may enter such findings of fact and conclusions oflaw, based upon the record of the hearing.
B.   In cases where the hearing is held before a hearing examiner, the metro council, after review of the hearing
     record, may adopt and enter the recommended findings of fact, conclusions of law and order, or may enter its
     own findings of fact, conclusions of law and order supported by the record .
C.   All orders entered by the metro council concerning the appeal of the denial, suspension or revocation of a
     license shall be in writing and shall be final.
D.   A licensee who seeks judicial review of the metro council's decision shall serve a copy of the complaint
     seeking judicial review with both the metro council and the appropriate court. The metro council shall
     promptly certify a copy of the record of hearing to the reviewing court.

1.02.180 - License-Effect          of denial.
      If at any time a license or renewal is denied under the provisions of this chapter, it shall thereafter be unlawful
for any person to engage in or carry on or operate or use or pennit to be operated or used, any property for any
business with respect to which the license or renewal has been denied, until a license or renewal shall be granted by
the metro council upon appeal.
Chapter 1.03 - BOARD OF LICENSE EQUALIZATION
Sections:


1.03.010-Metro Council-Powers                 and duties.
A.   The Copperton Metro Township Council is hereby constituted a board of license equalization for the
     equalization of license rates. The metro council (referred to throughout this chapter as "the board") shall have
     authority to examine the assessments made by the license official, hear complaints of aggrieved parties, and
     make changes in any assessments the board concludes to be illegal, unequal, or unjust.
B.   Corrections made by the board shall be entered in detail in the record of license assessment kept by the license
     official, and the board shall approve in writing such entries before the license official shall adjust the accounts.

1.03.020 - Board meetings.
     The board shall meet as often as shall be necessary to complete the business of equalization. The date, time and
place of each meeting shall be set by the majority vote of the metro council during a regular session of the metro
council.

1.03.030 - Complaints on assessments-Deadline                  for presentation.
      All complaints relative to an assessment made by the license official must be presented to the board within
thirty days of such assessment, or be forever barred.

Chapter 1.04 - INSPECTIONS
Sections:


1.04.010 - Officers authorized to examine and inspect businesses-Powers                       and duties.
A.   The members of the local law enforcement agency, the license official, the members of the Salt Lake County
     Health Department, and the head of the local fire agency and designated representatives, are hereby appointed
     ex officio license deputies who, in addition to the duties of their respective offices, are hereby authorized to:
      I.    Inspect all businesses licensed under the provisions of this title as their duty shall bring them into contact
            with same,
     2.     See that licensed businesses are transacted in accordance with this title and other applicable law, and
     3.     Report to the license official the names of all persons doing business without a license, and instances of
            conduct by any party or business other than that covered by the license issued.

1.04.020 - Inspections-Right           of entry-Sampling         of materials.
A.   Whenever inspections of the premises used for or in connection with the operation of a licensed business or
     occupation are provided for or required by ordinance, or are reasonably necessary to secure compliance with
     any ordinance provision, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee, or the person in
     charge of the premises to be inspected, to admit onto the premises any authorized officer, employee or agent of
     the license office for the purpose of making the necessary inspection, at any reasonable time that admission is
     requested.
B.   Whenever an analysis of any commodity or material is reasonably necessary to secure conformance with
     ordinance provisions, or to detect violations thereof, it shall be the duty of the licensee whose business is
     governed by such provision to give to any authorized officer or employee requesting the same sufficient
     samples of such material or commodity as are necessary for analysis.

1.04.030 - Complaints and citations for violations.
      In the discharge of their official duties, the license official and authorized deputies shall have the power to
issue citations for the violation of any of the provisions of the license ordinances. The license official shall further
have the duty of cooperating with the metro attorney to cause complaints to be filed against all persons violating any
of the provisions of the license ordinances.

Chapter 1.05 - LICENSE CERTIFICATES AND REGULATIONS
Sections:


1.05.010 - Business rules and regulations.
     Rules and regulations covering the health , safety, morals , peace , good order , comfort and convenience of the
general public with respect to any business covered under this title shall be adopted by the metro council , and copies
of such rules and regulations shall be made available to and displayed by the licensee affected thereby in a
conspicuous place upon the licensed premises.

1.05.020 - Businesses that require additional regulation.
      The nature and operations of some business types may require additional regulation. Licensees may be notified
by the license official of the need for applications and additional fees with other agencies, including but not limited
to the Unified Fire Authority, local law enforcement agencies , the Salt Lake County Health Department, Planning
and Development Services, the Department of Agriculture, and the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and
Explosives.

1.05.030 - Posting license on premises required.
     It shall be the duty of any person conducting a licensed business in the metro to keep the license posted in a
prominent place on the premises used for such business at all times .

1.05.040 - License certificate to be shown to officials.
     It shall be the duty of each and every person to whom a certificate of license has been issued to show the same
at any proper time when requested to do so by the license official, local fire agency official , Salt Lake County
Health Department, or local law enforcement officer.

1.05.050 - Unlawful uses of certificates.
A.   It is unlawful to:
     1.     Counterfeit a license certificate;
     2.     Deface, mutilate, remove or attempt to remove a license certificate while it is required to be posted in a
            licensed premises;
     3.     Use or permit to be used a license certificate at any place other than that designated on the license
            certificate ; or
     4.     For any licensee to place or permit the license certificate to be placed or be in any place of business after
            it has been placed in or upon any place of business prohibited or declared to be unlawful by this title or
            any other ordinance or law.

Chapter 1.06 - TRANSFERABILITY OF LICENSES
Sections:


1.06.010 - License transfer limitations.
A.   No license granted or issued under the provisions of the ordinances of the metro shall :
     I.     Be assignable or transferable ,
     2.     Authorize any person other than the person therein mentioned or named to do business, or
     3.     Authorize any other business than is therein mentioned or named to be done or transacted.

Chapter 1.07 - LICENSE REVOCATIO
Sections:


1.07.010 - Enforcement powers.
A.   The license official may, on the official's own initiative, or in response to complaints referred from the general
     public, state agencies, local law enforcement, or local government agencies , investigate and gather evidence of
     violations of the licensing provisions of this title.
B.   The license official, shall be responsible for the enforcement of this title.

1.07.020 - Grounds for license suspension or revocation.
     In addition to any fine imposed, every license or permit issued by the license official or metro council may be
revoked or suspended by the license official if it is determined that the licensee or permittee:
     A.     Has been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude;
     B.     Has obtained, or aided another to obtain , a license by fraud or deceit;
     C.     Has violated the laws of the United States Government, state of Utah, the ordinances of the metro, or the
            rules and regulations of any agency of another governmental entity, governing the operation of the
            business holding a license or permit;
     D.     Has failed to pay personal property taxes, Utah state sales taxes, or other required fees;
     E.     Has refused to permit authorized officers or employees to make an inspection or to take a sample of a
            commodity, or has interfered with such officer or employee while making such inspection;
     F.     Has filed or encouraged another to file false information with the license office, the local law
            enforcement agency or any other agency as part of the license application; or
     G.     Has contracted with two or more independent contractors whose business licenses were subsequently
            revoked in final unappealable decisions during a twelve-month period for engaging in unlawful conduct
            under the Utah Massage Therapy Practice Act or Prostitution under the Utah Criminal Code on the
            licensee or permittee's leased or owned premises.

1.07.030 - License suspension or revocation-Procedure.
     Any suspension or revocation of a license shall be issued by the license official via written notice to the
     licensee, which shall outline the grounds for suspension or revocation. Suspension or revocation shall be
     stayed upon the filing of an appeal.

 1.07.040 - Appeals.
A.   The licensee may appeal to the metro council within fourteen calendar days any decision of the license official
     to suspend or revoke a license.
B.   Upon receiving the appeal, the metro council shall hold a license hearing in accordance with the provisions of
     Section 1.02. 140 through 1.02. 180 of this title.

1.07.050 - Effect ofrevocation.
      If a license is denied, revoked, or suspended without an appeal or after an appeal, it shall thereafter be unlawful
for any person to engage in or use, or permit to be used any property for any business with respect to which the
license has been suspended, revoked or denied.

1.07.060 - Waiting period for new license.
A.   No person denied a license under the provisions of Chapter 1.02, or whose license has been suspended or
     revoked without or after appeal under the provisions of this chapter, and no person associated or connected
     with such person in the conduct of such business , shall be granted a license for the same purpose for a period
     of six months after the denial, suspension or revocation has occurred.
B.   The metro council may, for good cause, waive the prohibition against persons formerly associated or connected
     with an individual who has had a license revoked.

Chapter 1.08 - GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSE FEES
Sections:


1.08.010 - Definitions.
     For the purpose of this chapter , the following terms shall have the meanings herein prescribed :
      "Business" means all activities within the metro carried on for the purpose of gain or economic profit , and for
the purposes of this chapter shall include nonprofit corporations , except that the acts of employees rendering service
to employers shall not be included in the term "business" unless otherwise specifically prescribed .
     "Employee" means the operator , owner or manager of a place of business and any persons employed by such
person in the operation of that place of business , in any capacity , and also any salesman, agent or independent
contractor engaged in the operation of that place of business, in any capacity.
     "Engaging in business" means, but is not limited to, the sale of tangible personal property at retail or
wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or property, and the rendering of personal services for others for a
consideration by persons engaged in any profession , trade, craft, business , occupation, or other calling , except the
rendering of personal services by an employee to an employer under any contract of personal employment.
      "Gross sales" means and includes the amount of any manufacturer's or importer's excise tax included in the
price of the property sold, even though the manufacturer or importer is also the wholesaler or retailer thereof , and
whether or not the amount of such tax is stated as a separate charge .
     Gros s sales shall not include:
     A.     The amount of any federal tax, except excise taxes imposed upon or with respect to retail or wholesale
            sales, whether imposed upon the retailer, wholesaler , jobber or the consumer, and regardless of whether
            the amount of federal tax is stated to customers as a separate charge; and
     B.     The amount of net Utah state sales tax.
     "Number of employees" means the average number of employees engaged at the place of business each regular
working day during the preceding calendar year.
      "Person" means any individual , receiver, assigner , trustee in bankruptcy , trust, estate, firm, copartnership, joint
venture, club, company, joint stock company, business trust , corporation , association , society or other group of
individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual , cooperative, fraternal, nonprofit or otherwise .
     "Place of business" means any location maintained or operated by a licensee within the metro, from which
business activity is conducted or transacted.

1.08.020 - License-Required-Period                of Validity-Expiration.
A.   It is unlawful for any person to engage in business within the metro without first procuring a general business
     license required by this chapter . Unless indicated otherwise, all general business licenses are valid for one year
     from the date issued and shall expire annually on the last day of the month in which the license was originally
     issued.
B.   In addition to the requirements above , decisions regarding the grant or denial ofa general business license shall
     be made in accordance with the procedures established in Sections 1.02.0 IO through 1.02. I 40 of this title .
C.   A general business license is subject to suspension or revocation for any violation of this chapter, or for any of
     the reasons contained in Section 1.07.020 of this title. Decisions to revoke or suspend a general business
     license shall be made in accordance with the procedures outlined in Sections 1.07.010 through 1.07.030 of this
     title.
D.   Appeals of any decision to deny, suspend or revoke a general business license shall be heard and decided in
     accordance with the procedures established in Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.08.030 - Exemptions.
A.   No business license fee shall be imposed under this chapter upon any business which:
     1.    Is exempt from both property taxes and privilege taxes, or
     2.    Upon a person engaged in business that is specifically exempt from licensure by political subdivisions
           under the laws of the state, or
     3.    Upon any person doing business within the metro who has paid a similar license tax or fee to some other
           governmental unit within the state, which governmental unit exempts from its license tax or fee, by
           written interlocal cooperation agreement, businesses domiciled in the metro and doing business in such
           unit.

1.08.040 - License-Fee.
      An annual license fee is levied upon the business of every person engaged in a business within the metro. A fee
per place of business, plus an additional fee for each employee, exceeding one, as defined in Section 1.08.010 of this
chapter shall be established in accordance with Section 3.42.040 of these ordinances . These fees shall be set out in
the consolidated fee schedule, which shall be approved by the metro council and shall be on file with the licensing
official.

1.08.045 - License-Change          in Place of Business-Fee.
A.   Any time a place of business changes, the business license for the prior place of business expires and a new
     application for a business license is required for the new place of business. A change in place of business shall
     include any change of address including a change of suite numbers within the same building. The new
     application shall be subject to the requirements of Chapter 1.02 of this title.
B.   The annual license fees described in Section 1.08.040, including both the per place of business and the per
     employee fees, shall be levied for the new place of business for the twelve months following issuance of the
     new business license. However, these fees for the new place of business shall be reduced to account for months
     where the licensee has not received the full benefit of the license fees for the prior place of business, as
     determined by the number of complete months for which the prior fees were paid but not used, and calculated
     on a pro rata basis.

1.08.050 - License-Branch          establishments.
      A business with multiple branch establishments or locations within the metro must obtain a separate license for
each branch or location within the metro as if such branch or location were a separate business, and each license
shall authorize the licensee to engage only in the business licensed thereby at the location or in the manner
designated in such license; provided, that warehouses and distributing places used in connection with or incident to a
business licensed under this title shall not be deemed to be separate places of business or branch establishments.

1.08.060 - Chapter provisions not exclusive.
     The general business license required under this chapter is in addition to all other licenses and permits required
by other ordinance provisions. No person shall engage in business without first procuring the necessary licenses and
permits that are required by other provisions of the ordinances, in addition to the license required by this chapter.

1.08.070 - Business recordkeeping requirements.
      Every person liable for the payment of any license fee imposed by this chapter shall keep books and records for
a period of three years as will accurately reflect the number of employees from which can be determined the amount
of any license fee for which the business may be liable under the provisions of this chapter.

1.08.080 - Fee payments-Constructive             Notice of Time Periods-Delinquency              penalties.
A.   All license fees provided for in this chapter shall be paid in advance to the license office prior to license
     approval. Annual renewal fees shall be paid prior to the last day of the month in which the license was
     originally issued, unless provided otherwise in this title.
B.   All businesses, owners, licensees, or applicants are obligated to be aware of and are deemed to have
     constructive notice of all time periods and deadlines for business license renewal and the effect of non-
     compliance with those time periods and deadlines , as set forth in this title, relating to the application , issuance,
     renewal, expiration, appeal or other action regarding business licenses, alcohol licenses, or any other licensing
     matters set forth in this title. Nothing in this title shall be construed as requiring the license office to take any
     affirmative action to notify businesses, owners, licensees, applicants of any time periods or deadlines or the
     effect of non-compliance with those time periods or deadlines, as set forth in this title, relating to the
     application, issuance, renewal, expiration, appeal, or other action relating to business licenses , alcohol licenses,
     or any other licensing matters as set forth in this title.
C.   In the event renewal fees are not received at the license office within thirty days of the date the fees are due,
     the licensee may be required to reapply for a business license and shall pay a penalty of twenty-five percent of
     the fees due as part of the reissuance fee. In the event the renewal fees are not received at the license office
     within sixty days of the date that the fees are due, the licensee may be required to reapply for a business license
     and shall pay a penalty of one hundred percent of the fee due as part of the reissuance fee.
D.   When any person, firm or corporation engages in any occupation covered by the provisions of this title, or adds
     anything to an existing business which requires an additional fee, without first paying the required license fee,
     a penalty of one hundred percent of the amount of such license fee shall be added to the original amount
     thereof.
     I.   The imposition of penalties for the late payment of business license fees, as established in this section,
          may be waived by the metro council upon the licensee's showing of good cause. "Good cause" must
          constitute exceptional circumstances of a material and substantial nature which are beyond the licensee's
          control, and may be demonstrated by the following:
          a.    Any error by the license official affecting the amount or imposition of the license fee;
          b.    Medical circumstances or other incapacity of the licensee;
          c.    A disaster or Act of God precluding timely payment; or
          d.    A good faith and reasonable dispute , not yet resolved , between the licensee and the license official
                regarding the need for a license or the imposition or amount of a license fee.
     2.   In determining whether good cause exists, the metro council may assign a person with appropriate
          training or experience to serve as a hearing officer to review applications and appeals regarding late
          business license fee waivers and make a recommendation regarding a waiver to the metro council.
1.08.090 - Civil actions to recover fees.
A.    Where this title requires a license to be obtained from the license official, the fee being fixed by ordinance, and
     where such fee is not paid at the time or in the manner provided in this chapter, a civil action may be brought
      in the name of the metro against the person failing to pay such license fee, in any court of this state having
     jurisdiction of such action, to recover the same and any penalties that may attach, and/or to enjoin further
     operation by the licensee .
B.   Where several amounts for licenses as fixed by any metro ordinance shall remain due and unpaid by any
     person, the amounts may be joined as separate causes of action in the same complaint in a civil action.
C.   The metro's attorney shall prepare, bring and prosecute the civil actions contemplated by this chapter upon the
     written request of the metro council.

1.08.100 - License application-Public             records-Exceptions.
A.   License applications shall be public records and information contained therein shall be public except for
     specific items of data that the license official designates or classifies as private, controlled or protected data
     consistent with the provisions of the Government Records Access and Management Act of the Utah Code.
B.   Income tax returns and sales tax returns filed with a license application made to the license official , that are or
     may be required by this title, shall not be made public, nor shall they be subject to the inspection of any person
     except the county license official or the official's authorized agent, or to those persons authorized to do so by
     order of the metro council.
C.   It is unlawful for any person to make public or to inform any other person of the contents of any information
     contained therein, or permit the inspection of any income tax return or state sales tax return, except as
     authorized in this section.

1.08.110 - Filing false return prohibited.
     Knowingly filing of a false license application , accompanying tax return, or any other information required to
be submitted to the license official in conjunction with a license application, is unlawful.

Chapter 1.09-TEMPORARY AND SEASONAL LICENSES
Sections:


1.09.010 - License-Required.
A.   It is unlawful for any person to conduct a sale for or to operate a temporary or seasonal business without first
     making application for and obtaining a license from the license official pursuant to the provisions of this
     chapter or other applicable provisions of this title.
8.   In addition to the requirements above , decisions regarding the grant or denial of a temporary or seasonal
     license shall be made in accordance with the procedures established in Sections 1.02.010 through 1.02.140 of
     this title.
C.   A temporary or seasonal license is subject to suspension or revocation for any violation of this chapter, or for
     any of the reasons contained in Section 1.07.020 of this title. Decisions to revoke or suspend a temporary or
     seasonal license shall be made in accordance with the procedures outlined in Sections 1.07.010 through
     1.07.030 of this title.
D.   Appeals of any decision to deny, suspend or revoke a temporary or seasonal license shall be heard and decided
     in accordance with the procedures established in Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.09.020 - Seasonal License-Period            of validity-Number        issued per year.
      A seasonal license will enable a seller to conduct a sale for up to one hundred eighty consecutive calendar
days . Only one seasonal license will be issued per year to any seller or anyone associated with seller. The seasonal
license will specify the location at which the sale may be conducted, and no sales by the licensee may be conducted
at a location other than that specified in the seasonal license.

1.09.030 - Temporary License-Period              of validity-Number        issued per year.
     A temporary license will enable a seller to conduct a sale for up to ten consecutive calendar days. The
temporary license will specify the location at which the sale may be conducted, and no sales by the licensee may be
conducted at a location other than that specified in the temporary license.

1.09.040 - Inspection of merchandise.
      The local law enforcement agency may inspect all merchandise to be sold under a temporary or seasonal
license during all normal business hours.

1.09.050 - Compliance with laws.
      Seasonal and temporary license holders will comply with all applicable laws and ordinances of the metro and
the state governing the operation of their business .

Chapter I.IO-ALCOHOL REGISTRATION CARDS
Sections:


1.10.010 - Definitions.
     As used in this chapter:
     A.     "Employed" means performing any type of work or assistance for or on behalf of any establishment
            covered by this chapter, at any establishment covered by this chapter , during hours such establishment is
            open to its members or to the public, whether or not pecuniary compensation is provided or offered
            therefor .
     8.   "Employee" means any person who is employed, as defined in this section, by any establishment covered
          by this chapter, whether the person is employed on a contractual basis, by fixed salary, or by any other
          means.
     C.   "Employer" means any establishment, or the principals thereof, covered by this chapter.

1.10.020 - Persons and establishments which require registration cards.
     The persons and establishments covered by this chapter and required to obtain a registration card shall be as
follows:
     A.   All employees of on-premises beer tavern and resort license establishments;
     8.   Beer-only restaurants which provide live entertainment on the premises;
     C.   Equity, fraternal, dining, and social clubs which sell, serve and dispense alcoholic beverages, including
          those employed as bartenders, waiters, waitresses, and managers; and
     D.   Those engaged in security, or the checking of identification to ensure that no person, including
          performers, enters the establishment who is not twenty-one years of age.

1.10.030 - Procedure for obtaining card.
A.   An employee applying for an alcohol registration card must apply at the local law enforcement agency's office,
     provide proof of employment, and be photographed.
B.   All applicants shall be required to furnish satisfactory proof of age via a valid form of identification as
     determined by the local law enforcement agency.
C.   All applicants shall be required to furnish a current copy of a criminal background check conducted by the
     Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification (BCI).
D.   The applicant shall pay to local law enforcement such fees as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule
     approved by the metro council and on file with the license official.

1.10.040 - Card numbers to be registered by employer.
     All registration card numbers obtained under the provisions of this chapter are to be registered by the employer
personnel or payroll section, and kept as a part of the record of the employee.

1.10.050 - Examination of employees' cards.
A.   The person or persons designated by each establishment as the agent(s) responsible for hiring and/or checking
     employees under the provisions of this chapter shall examine each employee's or prospective employee's
     registration card to determine the validity of the card for use in the particular establishment concerned.
B.   If the prospective employee's card is found to be invalid as described above, the employee will be issued a new
     signed application form, which must be completed and presented along with the registration card to the local
     law enforcement agency's office for validation prior to commencing employment.

1.10.060 - Period of validity.
     Unless revoked or suspended, each registration card issued pursuant to this chapter shall remain valid for a
period of one year from the date of original issuance.

1.10.070 - Possession of card required-Cards              not transferable.
A.   All persons employed by an establishment governed by this chapter must have in their possession a valid
     registration card during times of employment with the establishment.
8.   Registration cards are not transferable.

1.10.080 - Denial conditions-Appeals.
A.   The local law enforcement agency may deny, on behalf of the metro, a registration card if the applicant:
     l.    Has been convicted of a felony, or any crime involving moral turpitude as defined by Utah
           Administrative Rule R708-2-3;
     2.    Has obtained a registration card by fraud or deceit;
     3.     Has failed to pay required fees;
     4.     Has violated the laws of the state or the ordinances of the metro regulating the sale or distribution of
            alcoholic beverages, or a controlled substance as defined in Section 58-37-1, et seq., Utah Code
            Annotated (1953), as amended;
     5.     Has an outstanding warrant for his or her arrest.
8.   Any appeal of the denial of a registration card subject to the provisions of this chapter shall be heard and
     decided in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.10.090 - Suspension and revocation conditions and procedures.
A.   In accordance with Chapter 1.07, the license official may revoke or suspend registration cards if the holder has
     committed any of the offenses outlined in Section 1.10.080(A), or has utilized a registration card for the
     purpose of obtaining credit, or as identification for cashing checks.
8.   Any appeal of the suspension or revocation of a registration card subject to the provisions of this chapter shall
     be heard and decided in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.
1.10.100 - Violation-Penalty.
     Violation of this chapter or any part thereof shall be punishable as a Class 8 misdemeanor.

Chapter 1.11 - LICENSES FOR LARGE-SCALE EVENTS OF STA TE, NATIONAL OR
INTERNATIONAL IMPORT AN CE/RECOGNITION
Sections:


1.11.010 - Definition and application of chapter.
A.   This chapter shall apply only to licenses required for use during, or in connection with, large-scale events of
     state, national or international importance or recognition.
8.   A large-scale event of state, national or international importance or recognition is a temporary event with
     anticipated attendance in excess of one thousand people.
C.   Large-scale event licenses shall not be subject to the provisions of Section l .08.090(A).
1.11.020 - License-Period          of validity-Number           issued.
A.   A large-scale event license will permit a vendor holding the license to conduct business operations for which
     the license is issued for a period beginning thirty calendar days before the officially established date for the
     opening of the large-scale event and ending thirty calendar days following the officially established closing
     date of the large-scale event.
8.   Any large-scale event license shall not be valid for more than one hundred and eighty consecutive calendar
     days.
C.   There shall be no limit to the number of large-scale event licenses issued to any one person; provided however,
     that a separate license shall be required for each large-scale event.
D.   A license duly issued shall authorize business activity at any and all additional locations specified therein,
     provided that the holder has complied with all requirements of this title.

1.11.030 - Location of business activity.
A.   The business activity conducted by each person awarded a license under this chapter shall be only that business
     for which the license is issued, and may be conducted only in such place or places specified in the license.
8.   Applicants may specify the location or locations desired. However, the licensing official shall have the final
     determination as to the location or locations of the permitted business activity, taking into consideration such
     factors as the zoning designation, traffic flow, pedestrian flow, parking, audio/visual equipment, tents,
     temporary structures, hours of operation, etc.

1.11.040 - Applications-Compliance              with laws-Appeals.
A.   Those applying for a large-scale event business license shall comply with the provisions of Sections 1.02.010
     through 1.02.140 of this title.
B.   In addition, license holders shall comply with all other applicable laws and ordinances of the metro, the state of
     Utah, and the United States of America governing the operation of their business.
C.   Failure to comply with this section may result in the immediate revocation of the large-scale event business
     license, in addition to any penalties imposed by the provisions of the ordinance or law violated.
D.   The final determination whether to immediately revoke a large-scale event business license under the authority
     of this section shall in any event, be made in accordance with the provisions of Section 1.07 .020 through
     I .07.030 of this title.
E.   Any appeal of a decision to deny, revoke or suspend a large scale event business license shall be heard and
     decided in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

Chapter 1.13 - CHECK CASHERS PROHIBITIONS
Sections:


1.13.010 - Definitions.
     "Check casher" or "check cashing business" means an entity engaged in the business of check cashing.
      "Check cashing" means cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred deposit loan (as defined by
the Check Cashing Regulation Act of the Utah Code) but does not restrict the activities of depository institutions or
persons who cash a check in a transaction that is incidental to the retail sale of goods or services for consideration
that does not exceed the greater of one percent of the amount of the check or one dollar.
      "Title loan" means a loan secured by the title to a motor vehicle, mobile home, or motor boat, as defined by
state statute. "Title loan" does not include a purchase money loan or loan made in connection with the sale of a
motor vehicle, mobile home, or motor boat.

1.13.020 - Check casher regulation.
A.   The Copperton Metro Council finds that the regulation of check cashers is:
     1.     A serious matter which affects the prosperity and welfare of the residents of the metro;
     2.     Appropriately the responsibility of the governments of the United States and of the state of Utah; and
     3.     Inadequately performed at the present time by the federal and state governments so as to protect the
            welfare of the citizens of the metro.

1.13.030 - Limitations.
A.   The total number of check cashers in the metro shall not exceed one check casher per ten thousand population
     of the metro.
B.   Check cashers must provide to patrons a complete written description of the services provided by the check
     casher, which description is approved by the Utah State Department of Financial Institutions.
C.   A business engaged in offering title loans is not subject to the provisions of this section unless it engages in a
     check casher business at the same location.

Chapter 1.14- EXCAVATION OPERATIONS
Sections:


1.14.010 - Excavation defined.
      For the purpose of this chapter , "excavation" refers to any type of mining operation where material is removed
from the earth, including but not limited to the removal of clay, soil, granite, flagstone, slate, shale, limestone,
sandstone, sand or gravel by excavating, stripping, leveling or any other process.

1.14.020 - Excavation district established.
     The following excavation district is established in the Copperton Metro Township:
      Beginning at the point of intersection of the north line of Salt Lake County and the west line of Section 6, TIN,
R2E, SLB&M; which point lies also upon the west line of Range 2 East, SLB&M, thence southward along the west
line of said Range 2 East, to the south line of Salt Lake County; thence westerly along the south line of Salt Lake
County to the point of intersection with the west line of Section 22, T4S, R2W; thence northward along the west line
produced of said Section 22 to the southeast comer of Section 9, T3S, R2W; thence west along the south line
produced of said Section 9 to the southwest comer of Section 8, T3S, R2W; thence north along the west line
produced of last said section to the west quarter comer of Section 20, TI S, R2W; thence east from said west quarter
comer along the quarter section line produced of said Section 20 to the west quarter comer of Section 23, Tl S,
R2W; thence north along the west line of said Section 23 to the north line of same section; thence east along the
north line produced of same said section to the point of intersection with the west limits of Salt Lake City; thence
northerly following along the west limits of Salt Lake City to the north line of Salt Lake County; thence along the
north line of Salt Lake County to the point of beginning; but excluding all lands lying inside the incorporated
communities within the area above described. This area is described throughout in relation to the Salt Lake Base and
Meridian.

1.14.030 - Operations-Distance           from residential zones.
A.   Subject to modifications outlined in Section 1.14.040 of this chapter, no part of an excavation operation,
     including but not limited to access roads, parking areas, office buildings, or crushing, screening, washing,
     mixing or other types of processing operations, shall be permitted closer than two hundred feet to a residential
     zone boundary or a subdivision, or within fifty feet of a public highway right-of-way, except for accessory
     access roads.
B.   For the purpose of this chapter, the residential zone S-1-G shall be considered a nonresidential zone.

1.14.040 - Operation-Reduction           in distance permitted when.
     Relating to existing operations, the planning commission shall, consistent with the intent of this chapter and
where the character of the terrain, of ownership of land, of surrounding development, or other special conditions
would justify such modification, permit a reduction in the required yard as provided in Section 1.14.030 of this
chapter so as not to impose unreasonable requirements. However, in no case shall the required distances for any
excavation or accessory structure be less than fifty feet from a residential zone.
1.14.050 - Exemptions-Commercial              disposal of materials.
      The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any operation that is incident to the legitimate use of the
premises. However, when such operation involves the commercial disposal of the material removed, such operation
shall be limited to a maximum period of six months.

1.14.060 - Exemptions-Topographical              or other conditions.
      In cases where unusual topographical or other exceptional conditions exist, variations and exemptions from
this chapter may be made by the planning commission.

1.14.070 - Exemptions-Removal             of less than one thousand cubic yards.
     Excavation over a six-month period of less than one thousand cubic yards from a single parcel of land, as
recorded in the office of the county recorder, is not subject to the requirements of this chapter.

1.14.080 - Exemptions-Removal             of sod.
     The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the removal of sod.

1.14.090 - Exemptions-Removal             of topsoil.
     The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to the removal of topsoil, providing the operation is not closer
than ten feet to any property line or to a depth in excess of eighteen inches, or such as to adversely affect the
drainage of the area.

1.14.100 - Hours of operation-Designated.
     Excavation operations shall not begin before seven a.m. and shall not continue after the hours of six p.m., and
no operation shall take place on Sunday or legal holidays. During periods of national or unusual emergency, time
and hours of operation may be altered at the discretion of the metro council.
1.14.110 - Hours of operation-Modifications.
     The planning commission may, consistent with the intent of this chapter, modify the provisions relative to
permitted hours of operation in any excavation district after notice to interested parties and the holding of a hearing
on the matter.
1.14.120 - Restrictions, limitations and controls generally.
      All excavation operations conducted or carried on in established excavation districts are subject to the
limitations, restrictions and controls set out in Sections 1.14.0 IO through 1.14.140.
     A.    Dust, Noise, Vibration, Smoke, Lights and Odor. All equipment and machinery used on the site of an
           excavation operation shall be constructed, maintained and operated in such a manner as to reduce or keep
           dust, noise, vibration, smoke, welding lights, and odor to a minimum. Access and haulage roads on the
           site shall be maintained in a dust-free condition by surfacing or other treatment.
     B.    Fencing or Barriers. Fencing or other suitable barriers shall be created and maintained on the excavation
           site where such fencing is practicable and necessary because of dangerous conditions created by the
           excavation .
     C.    Related Manufacturing Operations. The manufacture of concrete building blocks or other similar blocks,
           the production or manufacture of lime products, the production of ready-mixed concrete, the production
           of asphalt mixes, and any similar production or manufacturing processes that might be related to the
           excavation operation shall not be permitted except as otherwise provided in the zoning ordinance.
     D.    Washing. The washing of sand and gravel shall be done so as to prevent the discharge of wastewater
           directly into adjacent natural watercourses, or onto any public or private roads or any private property
           without the consent of the owner.
1.14.130 - Removal of temporary structures and materials.
      Within one year after the cessation of the operation, all temporary structures (except fences), equipment, rock
piles, rubble heaps or other debris shall be removed or backfilled into the excavation so as to leave the premises in a
neat and orderly condition.
1.14.140 - Excavation and backfilling.
A.   Where backfilling is required, the excavation shall be graded or backfilled with nontoxic, nonflammable,
     noncombustible solids. The materials used or the method of fill shall not be such as to create a health hazard ,
     nor shall they be objectionable because of odor or unsightliness.
B.   Stagnant water shall not be allowed to collect and remain on the graded or backfilled area.
C.   The peaks and depressions of the excavation area shall be reduced to a surface which will result in level or
     gently sloping topography in substantial conformity to the land area immediately surrounding , and which will
     minimize erosion due to rainfall.
D.   In any rehabilitation procedure that takes place in sand and gravel pits or on other sites where material is of
     loose or friable nature, no slope shall be left that exceeds thirty degrees or the normal angle of repose of the
     material involved, whichever is less.

1.14.150 - Rehabilitation requirements.
A.   In order to ensure that the area of excavation operation shall be rehabilitated, the owner or operator shall, prior
     to the commencement of excavation, submit to the planning and development services director four copies of a
     plan for such rehabilitation in the form of the following:
     I.    A description of all phases of the contemplated operation and the specific mention of the type of
           machinery and equipment that will or might be necessary to the performance of the operation . When the
           excavation operation shall include the washing of sand and gravel, the estimated daily quantity of water
           required , its source and disposition, shall be made a part of the description;
     2.    A legal description of the proposed site, with a map showing its location with indications of private
           access roads, existing or proposed, and of public highways adjacent to the site which will be affected by
           the operation;
     3.     A topographic map of the area at a minimum contour interval of five feet , extending beyond the site to
            the nearest public street or highway or to a minimum distance of three hundred feet on all sides;
     4.     A physical rehabilitation plan showing the proposed contours after rehabilitation and other special
            features ofrehabilitation, and the method by which such rehabilitation is to be accomplished.
B.   When the excavation site is greater than ten acres , such plans shall , in addition to the foregoing , show each ten-
     acre section or portion thereof exceeding the first ten-acre section.
     I.     Upon completion of excavation of the first ten-acre section, the owner or operator shall commence
            rehabilitation of the first ten-acre section .
     2.     Rehabilitation of the first ten-acre section must be completed before excavation may begin on the third
            ten-acre section or portion thereof
     3.     Upon completion of excavation of any subsequent ten-acre section , rehabilitation of such section shall be
            commenced and completed in the same manner and sequence as rehabilitation of the first ten-acre
            section; that is, rehabilitation of the second ten-acre section shall be commenced upon completion of
            excavation of such section and shall be completed before excavation may begin on the fourth ten-acre
            section, and so forth .
C.   At any stage during the rehabilitation, the plan may be modified by the submission and subsequent approval of
     an amended rehabilitation plan such as that required in the original application.
D.   The rehabilitation plan and all data and information pertaining thereto shall be referred to the planning
     commission by the planning and development services director within fifteen calendar days after its receipt for
     report and recommendation.
     1.     If approved, the planning commission shall, after consideration of the recommendations of the planning
            and development services division and within thirty days, express its written approval , with whatever
            conditions are attached, by returning one copy of the rehabilitation plan signed by the planning and
            development services director to the owner or operator.
     2.     If the plan is disapproved, the planning commission shall in the same manner and within five calendar
            days, indicate its disapproval in writing, and the reasons therefor.

1.14.160 - Enforcement-Planning              and development services director authority.
     The planning and development services director (hereinafter "the director") is hereby designated as the officer
charged with the enforcement of this chapter and may delegate this authority to any authorized county employee .

1.14.170 - Inspection and stop work orders.
A.   It shall be the duty of the director to inspect all excavations, as often as necessary.
8.   Where it is determined by the director that any excavation project is not proceeding in compliance with the
     provisions of this chapter, the director may order the work on the project stopped by notice served in writing
     on any persons engaged in working on the project, and all persons shall forthwith stop such work until the
     project is brought into compliance and the director authorizes the project to proceed.
C.   In addition , the metro may pursue appropriate legal action in the courts.
D.   Failure to implement administrative or legal action shall not legalize any violation of this chapter.

1.14.180 - Violation-Penalty-Violation                of stop work orders.
A.   Violating any provision of this chapter shall be deemed a misdemeanor and punished as set forth in Chapter
     I .12 of this code.
8.   Any person violating the terms of a stop work order issued pursuant to this chapter shall be guilty of a separate
     offense for each and every day during which such violation is committed, continued or permitted by such
     person.

Chapter 1.15 - ALARM BUSINESSES
Sections:
1.15.010 - Purpose and scope.
     The purpose of this chapter is to:
     A.    Protect the emergency services of the metro from the occurrence of false alarms which cause local law
           enforcement significant unwarranted expense; and
     B.    Preserve the public interest in the expenditure of public resources while maintaining a sufficient level of
           law enforcement services.

1.15.020 - Definitions.
     As used in this chapter:
      "Alarm business" means any individual, partnership, corporation or other entity in the business of selling,
leasing, maintaining, monitoring, repairing, planning or assisting in the installation of any alarm system in the metro.
     "Alarm site" means each individual home in the case of a single-family residence or each unit of a home,
duplex or apartment if the structure is a multifamily dwelling, or each business or businesses within a building.
      "Alarm system" means any mechanism, equipment, or device which is designed to detect an unauthorized
entry into any building or onto any property, or to direct attention to a robbery, burglary , or other emergency in
progress, and to signal the local law enforcement agency of the above occurrences either by a local or audible alarm
or by a silent or remote alarm. "Alarm system" includes a "duress alarm" and an "intrusion alarm" as defined below.
     "Alarm system" does not include:
     1.    Devices which do not register alarms that are audible, visible, or perceptible outside the protected
           premises; and
     2.    Devices which are not installed, operated or used for the purpose of reporting an emergency to the local
           law enforcement agency.
      "Alarm user" means the person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or organization thereof of
any kind in control of a building, structure or facility where an alarm system is maintained, including the
homeowner, for alarm systems in single-family residences, and the tenant, for alarm systems in an apartment
building.
     "Apartment building" means any building containing two or more residential rental units.
      "Automatic dialing device" means a device which is interconnected to a telephone line and is programmed to
select a predetermined telephone number and transmit by voice message or code signal any emergency message
indicating a need for emergency response.
     "Duress alarm" means an alarm system signaling a robbery or other physical endangerment.
      "Enhanced call verification" means that an alarm business will make a second call to a responsible party to
verify a business intrusion alarm drop prior to requesting a response from the local law enforcement agency.
     "False alarm" means an alarm signal eliciting a response by peace officers when a situation requiring a
response by them in fact does not exist. This does not include an alarm signal caused by extraordinary violent
conditions of nature not reasonably subject to control.
     "Holdup alarm" means a silent alarm generated by the manual activation of a device intended to signal a
robbery in progress.
     "Intrusion alarm" means an alarm system signaling an entry or attempted entry into an area protected by the
system.
      "One-plus duress alarm" means the manual activation of a silent alarm signal by entering at a keypad a code
that adds one to the last digit of the normal arm/disarm code.
       "Panic alarm" means an audible alarm signal generated by the manual activation of a device intended to signal
a life threatening or emergency situation.
      "Responsible party" means any of the three persons designated by the residential permit holder to respond in
place of the permit holder if an alann is generated at the pennit holder's alarm site, or, in the case of a business , the
name of the owner or designated person(s) to respond to the business in the event an alarm is generated at the pennit
holder's alann site.

1.15.030 -Alarm business permit.
A.   It is unlawful for any alann business to install an alarm system in or on any building or other property within
     the metro without an alann business permit.
8.   No alann business permit will be issued unless the applicant has a current state license under U.C.A. § 58-55-
     30 I , as amended and is licensed by the Utah State Division of Professional Licensing .

1.15.040 - Alarm user permits.
A.   Every alarm user shall have on their premises or in their possession an alarm user permit which shall be issued
     at no charge upon filing a completed alann pennit application as provided by Section 1.15.050 of this chapter .
     The pennit application shall be submitted prior to the operation of the alann system or prior to an existing
     system being taken over by a different alarm user or business.
8.   A separate pennit shall be required for each alarm site.
C.   An alann user permit shall continue in effect until there is a change in ownership of the alarm system , at which
     time the pennit shall expire . Alann pennits are not transferable.
D.   An alarm business shall notify local law enforcement of any alarm user who has cancelled or otherwise
     tenninated their alarm services with the business.
E.   Homeowners are required to possess an alann user pennit for alann systems installed in single-family
     residences.

1.15.050 - Alarm information.
A.   An alann user permit application shall include the information required in this section and shall be completed
     by the alann user and submitted prior to operation of the system .
8.   The alarm user pennit application shall set forth the full name , address and telephone number of both the alann
     user on whose premises the system will be installed , operated, connected , monitored or maintained, and the
     name of the contact person of the alann business installing , monitoring, maintaining or servicing the system.
C.   The alann user permit shall contain such additional infonnation as necessary to properly identify and locate the
     alann user, the alarm business, and the responsible parties.
D.   To the extent permitted under the Utah Government Records Access and Management Act, as amended, all
     alann user pennit applications and pennit infonnation relating to specific alann sites shall be designated as
     private records or protected records and not disclosed except as provided by Utah law.

1.15.060 - Records of local law enforcement agency calls.
      Alann businesses which request response from the local law enforcement agency to alarm signals shall
maintain a record of all local law enforcement agency calls, stating the time, date and location of the alann and the
name, address and phone number of the alann user. Alarm businesses shall maintain these records for one year . The
records shall indicate the cause of the alarm, if known. This record shall be kept current and shall be made available
to the local law enforcement agency at any time during normal business hours.

1.15.070 - User instructions.
      Every alann business shall furnish the alarm user with written instructions and trammg that provide
information to enable the alann user to operate the alann system properly and avoid false alanns. Written operating
instructions and the phone number of the alann business monitoring station shall be maintained at each alann site.
The alann business shall notify the alann user of the alann pennit requirements and of the provisions of this alarm
chapter.

1.15.080 - Apartment buildings .
A.   A tenant in an apartment building shall obtain an alarm permit before operating or causing the operation of an
     alarm system in the tenant's rental unit and must have three responsible parties listed on the permit application
     who can respond to the tenant's rental unit if the tenant is not available to respond.
B.   A tenant in an apartment building who has contracted with an alarm business to monitor an alarm system at the
     tenant's alarm site shall be responsible for any false alarms or fines arising from the alarm system at such alarm
     site.

1. 15.090 - Alarm system requirements and prohibitions.
A.   All audible or visual alarm systems shall be equipped with an automatic cutoff device which will terminate the
     alarm signal within thirty minutes.
B.   No alarm business shall install or program alarm systems to be capable of sending one plus duress alarms after
     the effective date of this chapter.
C.   It is the responsibility of the alarm business to prevent false alarms during installation, system repairs, or
     system service. Proper notification shall be made to the local law enforcement agency by the alarm business
     and alarm user that the system is in a test mode to avoid dispatching law enforcement.
D.   It is unlawful for any person to install or use an alarm system or device that emits or produces real or simulated
     smoke, fog , vapor or any like substance that obscures vision.
E.   No person shall activate any intrusion or duress alarm knowing the same to be false.
F.   An alarm business shall not request the local law enforcement agency to respond to an alarm when monitoring
     equipment indicates an alarm system malfunction.
G.   Alarm businesses shall make a second attempt to verify a business intrusion alarm through enhanced call
     verification prior to contacting the local law enforcement agency for a response.
H.   Alarm businesses shall verify a residential alarm user or responsible party is responding to an intrusion alarm
     prior to contacting the local law enforcement agency for a response.

1.15.100 - Metro Township liability limitations.
A.   The metro shall not be liable for any defects in the operation of any alarm systems , for any alleged failure or
     neglect to respond appropriately upon the receipt of an alarm nor for the failure or neglect of any person or
     business registered or issued a permit pursuant to this section in connection with the installation, operation or
     maintenance of the equipment necessary to or incident to the operation of such system.
B.   In the event it is necessary to order an alarm system disconnected based on repeated and uncontrolled false
     alarms, the metro shall inure no liability for such action .

1.15.110 - False alarms and fines.
A.   A fine may be assessed against the owner of a business or residence for the activation of an intrusion, duress,
     panic, or holdup alarm which is determined to be false. The fines shall be assessed as follows:
     1.   No fine shall be charged for the first or second incident of a false alarm within a calendar year;
     2.   A fine of fifty dollars shall be charged for the third incident of a false alarm within a calendar year;
     3.   A fine of one hundred dollars shall be charged for the fourth incident of a false alarm within a calendar
          year, and for each additional false alarm within each calendar year.
B.   The alarm user shall be responsible for false alarms caused by any person having authorized access to the
     premises from the alarm user.

1.15 .120 - Defenses to false alarm violation.
     It shall be an affirmative defense to a false alarm violation under this chapter that:
     A.   The false alarm for which the fine has been assessed did not originate at the premises of the alarm user
          who has been assessed the fine;
     B.   The alarm for which the fine has been assessed was, in fact, not false, but was the result of actual or
          attempted burglary, robbery or other emergency; or
     C.     Local law enforcement agency dispatch was notified by the alarm user or the alarm business that the
            alarm was cancelled prior to the arrival of a peace officer to the subject premises .

1.15.130 - Penalties.
A.   Knowingly providing false information to the alarm coordinator or failing to comply with the requirements of
     this chapter shall constitute a misdemeanor and shall be punishable by law.
B.   All fines assessed under this chapter shall be due and payable within thirty days after written notice is issued.
C.   Any fine not paid within thirty days will be assessed a late fee often percent of the original fine. Such late fee
     will be assessed each thirty-day period that the fine remains unpaid.
D.   If any fine is not paid within ninety days of the due date, lawful means as are available to collect such fines
     may be used, including suspension of the alarm user permit.

1.15 .140 - Appeal procedure.
A.   Any alarm user shall have fourteen calendar days from the date of written notice of a fine assessment under
     this section to request in writing an appeal hearing.
8.   Any period between the filing of a written appeal as specified in this section, and the time when a final
     decision is made, shall not count for the assessment of late fees for that violation.
C.   The county sheriff or designee shall schedule and conduct the appeal hearing within fourteen calendar days of
     the written request and shall render a written decision within seven calendar days after the appeal hearing is
     concluded. Following issuance of the decision, late fees shall accrue until paid, as provided in Section 1.15. l 30
D.   The county sheriff or designee may attempt to mediate and negotiate an agreement with the appellant and is
     authorized to reduce or dismiss fines for good cause shown, such as excusable user error. Fines may also be
     reduced or dismissed if an appellant agrees to attend a class or other training on the use of an alarm system.
E.   If the county sheriff or designee finds that no violation of this chapter occurred, or that a violation occurred but
     one or more of the defenses set forth in this section is applicable, the sheriff or designee shall dismiss the fine
     and release the alarm user from liability.
F.   If the county sheriff or designee finds that a false alarm did occur and no applicable defense exists, the sheriff
     or designee may, in the interest of justice, enter into an agreement for the timely periodic payment of the
     applicable fine and late fees.
G.   If an appellant is dissatisfied with the decision rendered by the county sheriff or designee, an appeal may be
     filed in writing, within fourteen calendar days of the decision with the metro council, and heard consistent with
     the procedures in Sections l.02.140-l.02.l80.

1.15.150 - Authority of the metro council to implement provisions of chapter.
     The metro council shall have the authority to adopt policies implementing the provisions of this chapter and
may establish response priorities to any alarm.

Chapter 1.16- MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS
Sections:


1.16.010 - Definitions.
     For the purposes of this chapter:
     "Massage" means the same as "Practice of massage therapy" as defined in Utah Code Annotated§ 58-47b-l02.
     "Massage apprentice" is as defined in Utah Code Annotated§ 58-47b-l02.
      "Massage establishment" means any place where a massage therapist conducts or carries on the business of the
practice of massage for a fee, gratuity or free demonstration.
     "Massage therapist" is as defined in Utah Code Annotated § 58-4 7b-l 02.

1.16.020 - License-Required.
     It is unlawful for any person to operate , conduct , carry on or maintain a massage establishment in the metro
without first obtaining a business license from the license official.

1.16.030 - License-Application          and issuance restrictions.
     Each individual desiring to operate a massage establishment shall:
     A.   Submit a license application with a certificate from the state signifying the applicant is licensed by the
          state as a massage therapist.
     B.   Submit the location , including the street, building and room number of the place where the applicant
          propo ses to operate a massage establishment.

1.16.040 - License-Display required.
A.   Every massage establishment licensed under this chapter shall display its massage establishment license in a
     conspicuous place on the premises.
B.   Every person while working as a massage therapist or apprentice shall maintain the person's massage therapist
     or apprentice license in the person's possession or immediate presence.

1.16.050 - Investigation of applicant and premises.
A.   All applications for massage establishment licenses shall be referred to:
     l.   The planning and development services division for zoning approval, and for a search of outstanding
          arrest warrants ;
     2.   The local fire agency for inspection to determine compliance with the provisions of the fire code ; and
     3.   The Salt Lake County Health Department for investigation to determine the sanitary condition of the
          premises and compliance with applicable health regulations.
B.   Upon completion of the review by each of the foregoing agencies, the license application for a massage
     establishment shall be submitted to the license official for further review and approval or denial in accordance
     with the provisions of Sections l .02.010 through 1.02.140 of this title.
C.   An applicant for a license massage establishment may appeal the decision of the metro council chair to deny a
     license in accordance with the procedure established under Sections 1.02. 140 through 1.02. I 80 of this title.

1.16.060 - Unlawful conduct and activities.
A.   It is unlawful for any person who is not licensed as a massage therapist or apprentice by the state to:
     1.   Practice or engage in massage therapy, or
     2.   Attempt to practice or engage in massage therapy , or
     3.   Falsely advertise or represent authority to practice or engage in massage therapy.
B.   It is unlawful to serve, store or allow to be served or consumed , any alcoholic beverages on the premises of any
     massage establishment.

I. 16.070 - Exemptions.
    The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to those individuals listed in Section 58-47b-304, Utah Code
Annotated, or any successor statute.

1. 16.080 - License-Revocation          or suspension-Appeals.
A.   It shall be grounds for the revocation or suspension of the license of a massage establishment in accordance
     with procedures established in Sections l .07.020 and 1.07.030 if it is shown that:
     l.   The massage establishment has been operated or maintained contrary to state statute or metro ordinance ;
          or
     2.   Any employee of a massage establishment has performed massage contrary to state statute or metro
          ordinance; or
     3.     The massage establishment has been operated contrary to the public health or the health of the patrons or
            customers of the establishment or without due regard to proper sanitation or hygiene.
     4.     The massage establishment has violated any of the requirements of Section 1.07.020 of this title.
     5.     Any appeal of a decision to suspend or revoke the license of a massage establishment shall be heard in
            accordance with the procedures established in Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

Chapter 1.17 - RESIDENTIAL SOLICITATION
Sections:


1.17.010 - Purpose.
A.   Persons residing in the metro have an inalienable interest in their personal safety, well-being, and privacy in
     their residences, as well as their ability to provide or receive information regarding matters of personal belief,
     political or charitable activities, and goods and services lawfully in commerce.
B.   The metro has a substantial interest in protecting the well-being, tranquility, personal safety, and privacy of its
     citizens, which includes the ability to protect citizens from trespass upon residential property. The metro also
     has a substantial interest in protecting citizens from fraud or otherwise unfair consumer sales practices, and
     from criminal activity .
C.   There must be a balance between the substantial interests of the metro and its citizens and the effect of the
     regulations in this chapter on the rights of those who are regulated, and based on the collective experiences of
     metro officials and the license official derived from regulating business activity, protecting persons and
     property from criminal conduct, responding to the inquiries of citizens regarding door-to-door solicitation, the
     experience of law enforcement officers and those affected by door-to-door canvassing and solicitation, as well
     as judicial decisions outlining the boundaries of constitutional protections afforded persons seeking to engage
     in door-to-door solicitation, the metro adopts this chapter to promote the metro's substantial interests in:
     1.     Respecting citizens' decisions regarding privacy in their residences;
     2.     Discouraging persons from criminal conduct;
     3.     Providing equal opportunity to persons advocating in regard to religious belief, political position, or
            charitable activity; and
     4.     Permitting truthful and nonmisleading door-to-door solicitation regarding lawful goods or services in
            intrastate or interstate commerce.
D.   The metro finds that the procedures, rules and regulations set forth in this chapter are narrowly tailored to
     preserve and protect the interests of the metro's citizens referred to herein while at the same time protecting the
     rights of those regulated.
E.   The provisions of this chapter shal) apply only to activities and persons located within the metro.

1.17.020 - Definitions .
     For the purposes of this chapter, the foUowing definitions shall apply:
      "Advocating" means speech or conduct intended to inform, promote, or support religious belief, political
position, or charitable activities.
     "Appeals officer" means the metro council chair responsible for receiving information from the license official
and appellant regarding the denial or suspension of an identification badge and issuing a decision as required by this
chapter.
     "Appellant" means the person or entity appealing the denial or suspension of an identification badge, either
personally as an applicant or registered solicitor, or on behalf of the applicant or registered solicitor.
      "Applicant" means an individual who is at least sixteen years of age. It shall not mean an entity which applies
for an identification badge permitting door-to-door solicitation.
     "Application form" means a standardized form provided by the license official to an applicant to be completed
and submitted as part of registration.
      "BC! report" means an original or copy, dated no older than one hundred eighty days prior to the date of the
application, of either: (I) a Utah Department of Public Safety Bureau of Criminal Identification verified criminal
history report personal to the applicant; or (2) verification by the Utah Department of Public Safety Bureau of
Criminal Identification that no criminal history rising to the level of a disqualifying status exists for the applicant.
      "Business" means a commercial enterprise licensed by the license official as a person or entity under this, or
other provisions of the Copperton Metro Township Code of Ordinances, having a fixed or temporary physical
location within the metro.
     "Charitable activities" means advocating by persons or entities that either are, or support, a charitable
organization.
     "Charitable organization" means and includes any person, joint venture, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation, association, group, or other entity:
     1.    That is:
           a.   Voluntarily performing a benevolent, educational, health-related, philanthropic, humane, patriotic,
                religious or eleemosynary activity; and/or is involved with social welfare or advocacy group, public
                health project, environmental or conservation activity, or civic organization; or
           b.   For the benefit of a public safety, law enforcement, or firefighter fraternal association; and
           c.   Established for any charitable purpose.
     2.    That is tax exempt under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended, and
           qualified to solicit and receive tax deductible contributions from the public for charitable purposes.
           Current Internal Revenue Code provision for such status is found at 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3).
     3.    "Charitable organization" includes a chapter, branch, area, or office, or similar affiliate or any person
           soliciting contributions within the state of Utah for a charitable organization that has its principal place of
           business outside the state of Utah. "Charitable organization" shall be such entities as defined above, and
           by the Charitable Solicitation Act of the Utah Code.
     "Competent individual" means a person reasonably claiming or appearing to be at least eighteen years of age
and of sufficiently sound mind and body to be able to engage in rational thought, conversation, and conduct.
      "Completed application" means a fully completed application form, a BC! report, two copies of the original
identification relied on by the applicant to establish proof of identity, and the tendering of fees.
      "Criminally convicted" means the final judgment of a conviction, whether by a plea of no contest, a plea of
nolo contendere, a plea of guilty, or entry of a judicial or jury finding of guilt, which has not been set aside on
appeal or pursuant to a writ of habeas corpus. The criminal conviction is that offense of which the applicant or
registered solicitor was convicted, without regard to the reduced status of the charge after completion of conditions
of probation or parole, or charges dismissed under a plea in abeyance or diversion agreement.
      "Disqualifying status" means anything specifically defined in this chapter as requiring the denial or suspension
of an identification badge, and any of the following as relates to the applicant or registered solicitor:
      I.   A criminal conviction for:
           a.   Homicide or manslaughter of any type, class or degree,
           b.   Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor,
           c.   The sale or distribution of controlled substances,
           d.   Sexual assault of any type, class or degree,
           e.   Theft of any type, class or degree,
           f.    Robbery,
           g.   Burglary, or
           h.   Assault of any type, class or degree;
     2.    A criminal conviction ofa felony within the last ten years;
     3.    Confinement or imprisonment in a federal or state prison within the past five years ;
     4.    Criminal conviction of a misdemeanor within the past five years involving a crime of:
           a.   Moral turpitude , or
           b.   Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
     5.    A final civil judgment within the last five years indicating the applicant or registered solicitor had either
           engaged in fraud, or intentional misrepresentation ;
     6.    Parole or probation to any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under house
           arrest or subject to a tracking device;
     7.    An outstanding arrest warrant from any jurisdiction; or
     8.    Any protective order , based on physical or sexual abuse, issued by a court of competent jurisdiction .
      "Door-to-door solicitation" means the practice of engaging in or attempting to engage in conversation with any
person at a residence, regardless of said person's competency, while making or seeking to make or facilitate a home
solicitation sale, or attempting to further the sale of goods and/or services.
     "Entity" means and includes a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other lawful entity,
organization, society or association.
     "Exigent circumstances" means those circumstances requiring immediate action or aid to prevent or alleviate
harm or threats to public health, safety or welfare.
     "Fees" means the cost charged to the applicant or registered solicitor for the issuance of an identification
badge , which shall not exceed the reasonable costs of processing the application and issuing the identification badge.
Fees shall be established and updated on a yearly basis by the metro council, with input from the license official.
      "Final civil judgment" means a civil judgment that would be recognized under state law as a judgment to which
collateral estoppel would apply .
     "Goods" means one or more tangible items, wares, objects of merchandise , perishables of any kind,
subscriptions, or manufactured products offered, provided , or sold.
      "Home solicitation sale" means to make or attempt to make a sale of goods or services by a solicitor at a
residence by means of door-to-door solicitation, regardless of:
     1.    The means of payment or consideration used for the purchase;
     2.    The time of delivery of the goods or services; or
     3.    The previous or present classification of the solicitor as a solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, or
           similar designation.
     "Identification badge" means a document permitting door-to-door solicitation in the metro applied for or issued
pursuant to the terms of this chapter.
      "Moral turpitude" means so extreme a departure from ordinary standards of honesty , good morals, justice, or
ethics as to be shocking to the moral sense of the community.
     "No solicitation sign" means a reasonably visible and legible sign that states "No Soliciting ," "No Solicitors,"
"No Salespersons ," "No Trespassing ," or words of similar import.
      "Political position" means any actually held belief, or information for, against, or in conjunction with any
political, social, environmental, or humanitarian belief or practice.
      "Registered solicitor" or "solicitor" means any person who has been issued a current identification badge by the
license official.
     "Registration" means the process used by the license official to accept a completed application and determine
whether an identification badge will be granted.
      "Religious belief' means any sincerely held belief, or information for, against, or in conjunction with, any
theistic, agnostic, or atheistic assumption, presumption or position, or religious doctrine, dogma, or practice. In
determining the presence of a sincerely held belief, the license official may consider:
     1.    Whether the professor of such belief is part of a recognized religious body or denomination,
     2.    Whether said body is an entity recognized by the Internal Revenue Service as an organization qualified
           under 26 U.S.C. 50l(c)(3),
     3.    Whether the professed belief is part of a larger scheme of beliefs relied upon by the adherents of the
           beliefs as a pattern for their life's activities, and
     4.    The lawfulness of the activities deemed to be part of the adherents' beliefs.
     5.    The number of adherents to a particular belief shall not, by itself, form a basis for determination by the
           license official whether the belief is sincerely held.
      "Residence" means any living unit contained within any building or structure that is occupied by any person as
a dwelling consistent with the zoning laws of the metro, together with the lot or other real property on which the
living unit is located. This does not include the sidewalk, public street or public rights-of-way.
      "Responsible person or entity" means that person or entity responsible to provide the following to an applicant,
registered solicitor, and the competent individual in a residence to whom a sale of goods or services is made or
attempted to be made by means of a home solicitation sale:
     I.    Maintaining a state sales tax number, a special events sales tax number, computing the sales taxes owing
           from any sale of goods or services, paying the sales taxes, and filing any required returns or reports;
     2.    Facilitating and responding to requests from consumers who desire to cancel the sale pursuant to
           applicable contractual rights or law; and
     3.    Refunding any monies paid or reversing credit card charges to those persons who timely rescind any sale
           pursuant to applicable contractual rights or law.
      "Sale of goods or services" means the conduct and agreement of a solicitor and the competent individual in a
residence regarding a particular good(s) or service(s) that entitles the customer to rescind the same within three days
under any applicable federal, state or local law.
      "Services" means those intangible goods or personal benefits offered, provided or sold to a competent
individual of a residence.
     "Soliciting" or "solicit" or "solicitation" means any of the following activities:
     1.    Seeking to obtain sales or orders for the exchange of goods, wares, merchandise or perishables of any
           kind, for any kind ofremuneration or consideration, regardless of whether advance payment is sought;
     2.    Seeking to obtain prospective customers to apply for or to purchase insurance, publications, or
           subscription(s) to publications;
     3.    Seeking to obtain contributions of money or any other thing of value for the benefit of any person or
           entity;
     4.    Seeking to obtain orders or prospective customers for goods or services;
     5.    Other activities falling within the commonly accepted definition of soliciting, such as hawking or
           peddling.
      "Submitted in writing" means the information for an appeal of a denial or suspension of an identification
badge, submitted in any type of written statement to the license official by certified, registered, priority, overnight or
delivery confirmation mail, facsimile, or hand delivery.
     "Substantiated report" means an oral, written, or electronic report:
     1.    That is submitted to and documented by any of the following:
           a.   A competent individual who is willing to provide law enforcement or the license official with
                publicly available identification of their name, address, and any other reliable means of contact,
           b.   A local law enforcement or the license official, or
           c.   Any other regularly established law enforcement agency at any level of government;
     2.    That provides any of the following information regarding a registered solicitor:
           a.    Documented verification of a previously undisclosed disqualifying status of a registered solicitor,
           b.   Probable cause that the registered solicitor has committed a disqualifying event which has not yet
                been determined to result in a disqualifying status,
           c.   Documented , eye-witness accounts that the registered solicitor has engaged in repeated patterns of
                behavior that demonstrate failure by the registered solicitor to adhere to the requirements of this
                chapter, or
           d.   Probable cause that continued licensing of the registered solicitor creates exigent circumstances that
                threaten the health, safety, or welfare of any individual or entity within the metro.
      "Waiver" means the written form provided to an applicant by the license official wherein the applicant agrees
that the license official may obtain a name/date of birth BCI background check on the applicant for licensing
purposes under this chapter, and which contains the applicant's notarized signature.

1.17 .030 - Exemptions from chapter.
     The following are exempt from registration under this chapter:
     A.    Persons specifically invited to a residence by a competent individual prior to the time of the person's
           arrival at the residence;
     B.    Persons whose license, permit, identification badge or registration with the state of Utah permits them to
           engage in door-to-door solicitation to offer goods or services to an occupant of the residence;
     C.    Persons delivering goods to a residence pursuant to a previously made order, or persons providing
           services at a residence pursuant to a previously made request by a competent individual;
     D.    Persons advocating or disseminating information for, against, or in conjunction with, any religious belief,
           or political position regardless of whether goods, services, or any other consideration is offered or given,
           with or without any form of commitment, contribution, donation, pledge, or purchase;
     E.    Persons Representing a Charitable Organization. The charitable exemption shall apply to students
           soliciting contributions to finance extracurricular social, athletic, artistic, scientific or cultural programs,
           provided that the solicitation has been approved in writing by the school administration, and that such
           student solicitors carry current picture student identification from the educational institution for which
           they are soliciting; and
     F.    Those persons exempt from registration are not exempt from the duties and prohibitions outlined in
           Sections 1.17 . 140 through 1.17.160 while advocating or soliciting.

1.17 .040 - Solicitation prohibited.
      Unless otherwise authorized, permitted, or exempted pursuant to the terms and provisions of this chapter, the
practice of being in and upon a private residence within the metro by solicitors, for the purpose of home solicitation
sales or to provide goods or services, is prohibited and is punishable as set forth in this chapter.

1.17 .050 - Registration of solicitors.
     Unless otherwise exempt under this chapter, no person may engage in door-to-door solicitation within the
metro without first submitting a completed application to the license official and obtaining an identification badge.

1.17 .060 - Application form and procedures.
A.   The license official shall provide a standard application form for use for the registration of solicitors.
B.   Upon submission to the license official of all information required by this Section 1.17 .060, and a review of
     said information by the license official in accordance with the requirements of Section 1.02.070 of this title, the
     license official shall approve the application or recommend denial , in accordance with the procedures
     established by Sections 1.02.010 through 1.02. 140 of this title.
C.   Upon request to the license official, or as otherwise provided, any person or entity may obtain in person, by
     mail, or facsimile, a copy of this application form. Each application form shall require disclosure and reporting
     by the applicant of the following information, documentation, and fee:
     1.   Review of Written Disclosures. An affirmation that the applicant has received and reviewed the
          disclosure information required by this chapter.
     2.   Contact Information:
          a.    Applicant's true , correct and legal name, including any former names or aliases used during the last
                ten years ;
          b.    Applicant's then-current telephone number, local address and home address, if different, and local
                mailing address and permanent mailing address, if different;
          c.    If different from the applicant, the permanent name, address, and then-current telephone number of
                the responsible person or entity; and
          d.    The address to which all notices to the applicant required under this chapter are to be sent.
     3.   Proof of Identity . An in-person verification by the license official of the applicant's true identity by use of
          any of the following, which must bear a recent photograph of said applicant:
          a.    A valid driver's license issued by any state .
                1.    Only a valid driver's license issued by a state shall be acceptable proof of identity;
                11.   A "driver's privilege card" or the like shall not be acceptable.
          b.    A valid identification card issued by any state to its residents who are nondrivers and who are also
                lawful citizens of the United States.
          c.    A valid passport issued by the United States.
          d.    A valid identification issued by a branch of the United States Armed Forces.
          e.    If the photograph of the applicant contained within , or as part of, any of the foregoing evidences of
                identity and was taken prior to the immediately preceding twelve months, the applicant shall also
                submit a photograph taken within the immediately preceding twelve months. Upon verification of
                identity, the original identification submitted to establish proof of identity shall be returned to the
                applicant.
     4.   Proof of Registration with Department of Commerce. The applicant shall provide proof that either the
          applicant, or the responsible person or entity, has registered with the Utah State Department of
          Commerce.
     5.   Special Events Sales Tax Number. The applicant shall provide a special events sales tax number for either
          the applicant, or for the responsible person or entity for which the applicant will be soliciting.
     6.    Marketing Information.
           a.   The goods or services offered by the applicant, including any commonly known, registered or
                trademarked names;
         b.   Whether the applicant holds any other licenses, permits, registrations, or other qualifications
              required by federal or state law to promote, provide, or render advice regarding the offered goods or
              services.
    7.   BCI Background Check:
         a.   An original or a copy of a Utah Bureau of Criminal Investigation (BCI) file as defined in the Utah
              Code, as amended, pertaining to the applicant; and
         b.   A signed copy of a waiver whereby the applicant agrees to allow the license official to obtain a
              name/date of birth BCI background check on the applicant, as permitted by the Utah Code, as
              amended, for purposes of enforcement of this chapter.
    8.   Responses to Questions Regarding "Disqualifying Status." The applicant shall be required to answer each
         of the following questions on the application form:
         a.   Has there been a criminal conviction of:
              1.     Homicide or manslaughter of any type, class or degree,
              ii.    Physically abusing, sexually abusing, or exploiting a minor,
              iii.   The sale or distribution of controlled substances, as said offenses are described in Utah law,
              1v.    Sexual assault of any type, class or degree,
              v.     Theft of any type, class or degree,
              v1.    Robbery,
              v11. Burglary, or
              viii. Assault of any type, class or degree.
         b.   Any criminal conviction of a felony within the last ten years.
         c.   Any confinement or imprisonment in a federal or state prison within the past five years;
         d.   Any criminal conviction of a misdemeanor within the past five years involving a crime of:
              i.     Moral turpitude, or
              ii     Violent or aggravated conduct involving persons or property;
         e.   A final civil judgment within the last five years indicating fraud or intentional misrepresentation;
         f.   Parole or probation from any court, penal institution, or governmental entity, including being under
              house arrest or subject to a tracking device;
         g.   An outstanding arrest warrant from any jurisdiction; and
         h.   Any protective order, based on physical or sexual abuse, issued by a court of competent
              jurisdiction?
    9.   Fee. The applicant shall pay such fees as set forth in the consolidated fee schedule approved by the metro
         council and on file with the license official.
    10. Execution of Application. The applicant shall execute the application form, stating upon oath or
        affirmation, under penalty of perjury, that based on the present knowledge and belief of the applicant, the
        information provided is complete, truthful and accurate.

1.17 .070 - Written disclosures.
    The application form shall be accompanied by written disclosures notifying the applicant of the following:
    A.   The applicant's submission of the application authorizes the license official to verify information
         submitted with the completed application including but not limited to:
         I.   The applicant's address;
          2.    The applicant's and/or responsible person or entity's state tax identification and special use tax
                numbers, if any;
          3.    The validity of the applicant's proofof identity.
     B.   The license official may consult any and all data sources for information on the applicant, including but
          not limited to, databases for any outstanding warrants, protective orders, or civil judgments.
     C.   Establishing proof of identity is required before registration is allowed.
     D.   The fee that must be submitted by the applicant with a completed application.
     E.   The applicant must submit a BCI background check report with a completed application.
     F.   To the extent permitted by state and/or federal law, the applicant's BCI background check report shall
          remain a confidential, protected, private record not available for public inspection.
     G.   The license official will maintain copies of the application form, proof of identity, and identification
          badge or card. These copies will become public records available for inspection on demand at the license
          official's office whether an identification badge is denied, granted, or renewed.
     H.   The criteria for disqualifying status, denial, or suspension of an identification badge under the provisions
          of this chapter.
     I.   Unless the license official determines that further investigation is necessary in accordance with Sections
          1.02.090 and 1.02.110 of this title, a request for a temporary identification badge will be granted or
          denied within a reasonable period of time after a completed application is submitted.
1.17 .080 - When registration begins.
A.   The license official shall not begin the registration process until the applicant has submitted a completed
     application.
B.   The original proof of identity shall be returned after the license official verifies the applicant's identity. A copy
     of the proofof identity will be retained by the license official.
C.   The license official shall make and keep a copy of any BCI report submitted by the applicant and return the
     original to the applicant.

1. 17.090 - Form of identification badge or card.
A.   Identification Badge or Card.
     1.   Each registered solicitor shall be issued an identification badge by the license official to be displayed at
          all times while soliciting in the metro, and which is to contain the following:
          a.    The name "Copperton Metro Township;"
          b.    The name address and phone number of the registered solicitor;
          c.    The name, address, and phone number of the responsible person or entity, if any;
          d.    A recent photograph of the registered solicitor; and
          e.    The date on which the identification badge expires.
1.17.100 - Maintenance of registry.
      The license official shall maintain and make available for public inspection a copy or record of every
completed application received and the identification badge or written denial issued by the metro council chair. The
license official may furnish to the head of the local law enforcement agency a listing of all applicants, both those
denied and those issued an identification badge.

1.17.110 - N ontransferability of identification badges.
A.   Identification badges shall be nontransferable.
B.   A registered solicitor shall submit a written change request to the license official if the solicitor:
     I.   Desires to engage in home solicitation sales of different goods or services from those designated in the
          original application, or
     2.   Desires to designate different responsible persons or entities from those designated in the original
          application.
C.   If approved, a new identification badge based on the written change request shall issue for the balance of time
     remaining on the registered solicitor's previous identification badge before the written change request was
     filed.
D.   Before the new identification badge is given to the registered solicitor, the registered solicitor shall obtain a
     revised identification badge or card from the license official, after payment of the fee for the identification
     badge or card.

1.17 .120 - Denial, suspension or revocation of an identification badge-Appeals.
A.   In addition to the grounds for suspension or revocation set forth in Chapter 1.07, every identification badge
     may be revoked or suspended for the following reasons:
     I.   The application form is not complete or correct;
     2.   The applicant fails to:
          a.    Establish proofof identity,
          b.    Provide a BCI report, or
          c.    Pay the fees.
     3.   The completed application or BCI report indicates that the applicant has a disqualifying status.
     4.   An identification badge was previously denied or revoked by the metro on grounds that still constitute a
          disqualifying status under this chapter.
     1.   Since the submission of the completed application:
          a.    The applicant has become subject to a previously undisclosed or unknown disqualifying status.
          b.    The metro has received a substantiated report regarding the past or present conduct of the applicant
                that discloses a disqualifying status.
          c.    The metro or another governmental entity has either criminally convicted or obtained a civil
                injunction against the applicant for violating this chapter or similar federal, state, or municipal laws
                or ordinances in a manner rising to the level of a disqualifying status.
          d.    A final civil judgment has been entered against the applicant indicating the applicant engaged in
                fraud or intentional misrepresentation.
B.   Suspension or Revocation.
     1.   An identification badge shall be suspended or revoked when any of the reasons warranting the denial of
          an identification badge occurs.
C.   Decisions to revoke or suspend an identification badge shall be made by the license official in accordance with
     the procedures established by Sections 1.07.020 and 1.07.030 of this title.
D.   Any appeal of a decision to deny, suspend or revoke an identification badge shall be heard by the metro
     council in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.17.130 - Deceptive soliciting practices prohibited.
A.   No solicitor shall intentionally make any materially false or fraudulent statement in the course of soliciting.
8.   A solicitor shall immediately disclose to the consumer during face-to-face solicitation:
     I.   The name of the solicitor;
     2.   The name and address ofthe entity with whom the solicitor is associated, if any; and
     3.    The purpose of the solicitor's contact with the consumer and/or competent individual. This requirement
           may be satisfied through the use of the identification badge or card and an informational flyer.
C.   Solicitors shall not use a fictitious name, an alias or any name other than the solicitor's true and correct name.
D.   No solicitor shall represent directly or by implication that the granting of an identification badge implies an
     endorsement by the metro of the solicitor's goods or services or of the individual solicitor.
1. 17.140 - "No solicitation" notice.
A.   Any occupant of a residence may give notice of a desire to refuse solicitors by displaying a "No Solicitation
     Sign" which shall be posted on or near the main entrance door or on or near the property line adjacent to the
     sidewalk leading to the residence.
B.   The display of such sign or placard shall be deemed to constitute notice to any solicitor that the inhabitant of
     the residence does not desire to receive and/or does not invite solicitors.
C.   It shall be the responsibility of the solicitor to check each residence for the presence of any such notice.
1.17 .150 - Duties of solicitors.
A.   Every registered solicitor shall check each residence for a "No Solicitation Sign."
B.   A registered solicitor shall:
     1.    Not knock on the door, nor ring the doorbell, nor make any other attempt to attract the attention of an
           occupant of a residence that bears a "No Solicitation Sign" for the purpose engaging in a home
           solicitation sale, door-to-door soliciting, or soliciting.
     2.    Immediately and peacefully depart when asked by an occupant of a residence or dwelling to do so.
     3.    A void any unreasonable physical contact or touching of another person without the person's consent.
     4.    Not follow a person into a residence without the person's explicit consent.
     5.    Not continue repeated soliciting after a person has communicated a lack of interest in the subject, goods
           or services of the solicitor.
     6     Not use obscene language or gestures or "fighting words" within the presence of any person to whom the
           solicitor is attempting to sell goods or services.
     7.    Not use ruse, deception, or fraudulent concealments of purpose to solicit or to take action calculated to
           secure an audience with an occupant at a residence.
C.   It is a violation of this chapter for a registered solicitor to take or fail to take any action prohibited or required
     under subparagraph (8) of this section. Possession of an identification badge does not relieve a solicitor of this
     duty.
1.17 .160 - Time of day restrictions.
      It is unlawful for any solicitor, to solicit at a residence before nine a.m. or after nine p.m. local time, unless the
solicitor has express prior permission from the resident to do so.
1.17 .170 - Buyer's right to cancel.
      In any home solicitation sale, unless the buyer requests the solicitor to provide goods or services without delay
in an emergency, the seller or solicitor shall present to the buyer and obtain the buyer's signature to a written
statement which informs the buyer of the right to cancel if said right is exercised within three business days after
signing an agreement to purchase. Such notice of "Buyer's right to cancel" shall be in the form required by the Utah
Uniform Commercial Code as contained in the Utah Code or a current version thereof, or any state or federal law
modifying or amending such provision.

1.17 .180 - No other metro license or approval required.
A.   Registered solicitors and persons exempt from registration need not apply for, nor obtain, any other license,
     permit or registration from the metro to engage in door-to-door solicitation.
B.   Any business licensed by the license official under another metro ordinance that uses employees, independent
     contractors, or agents for door-to-door solicitation in an effort to provide any tangible or intangible benefit to
     the business, shall be required to have such solicitors obtain an identification badge, unless otherwise exempt
     from registration.
C.   Those responsible persons or entities associated with registered solicitors need not apply for, nor obtain, any
     other license, permit, or registration from the license official, provided they do not establish a temporary or
     fixed place of business in the metro.
D.   Nothing herein is intended to interfere with or supplant any other requirement of federal, state, or other local
     government law or ordinance regarding any license, permit or certificate that a registered solicitor is otherwise
     required to have or maintain.

1.17.190 - Penalties.
A.   Any person who violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor for
     each violation and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed one thousand dollars and/or a jail sentence not to
     exceed six months for each violation.
B.   Any entity which violates any term or provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a Class B misdemeanor for
     each violation and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed five thousand dollars for each violation.
1.17.200 - Savings clause.
      If any portion of this chapter should be declared void, illegal, unconstitutional or ultra vires by the final
decision of a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining portions of this chapter shall remain in full force and
effect, and enforceable.

Chapter 1.18 - TAXICABS
Sections:


1.18.010 - Taxicab defined.
      "Taxicab," when used in this chapter, means any motor vehicle with a seating capacity of five passengers or
less, not including the driver, or a van with a passenger seating capacity of six to twelve, not including the driver,
used in the on demand, for hire transportation of passengers or baggage over the public streets and not operated over
a fixed route or upon a fixed schedule, but which is subject for contract hire by persons desiring special trips from
one point to another. A taxicab under this chapter does not include a transportation network company, a
transportation network driver, or transportation network services as defined by the Transportation Network
Company Registration Act, U.C.A. § 13-51-101 et seq., or its successor.
1.18.020 - Business License-Required.
A.   It is unlawful for any person, firm or corporation (hereinafter referred to as "owner") to engage in the business
     of operating a taxicab within the metro without first obtaining a business license.
B.   If the owner has obtained a current business license from elsewhere within the state, the metro will honor that
     license.
C.   If the owner has a business office within the metro, the owner shall obtain a business license in accordance
     with the procedures established in Chapter 1.02 of this title.
D.   Any appeal of a decision regarding the grant or denial of a taxicab business license shall be heard in
     accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.
E.   Owners shall not be required to obtain taxicab licenses for vehicles in their fleet.

1.18.030 - License-Insurance          or bond requirements.
A.   After approval of the application and prior to the issuance of a business license, the applicant shall submit to
     the license official a policy of insurance in such amounts as the Director shall from time to time determine
     appropriate, executed by an insurance company qualified to do business in the state, and approved by the
     Director, insuring any person against loss or damage to person or property resulting from the negligent
     operation of any taxicab operated by or on behalf of the owner thereof
B.   In lieu of a policy of insurance, taxicab owners may file surety bonds with the license official in such amounts
     as the Director shall from time to time determine appropriate, keeping the same in full force and effect during
     the entire period for which such taxicab is covered by the license issued hereunder. Bonds shall be in such
     form as the Director may deem proper, executed by a responsible and solvent surety company authorized to do
     business under the laws of the state, and so conditioned that the taxicab owner will pay all final judgments
     rendered against him for damages.

1.18.040 - License-Financial         responsibility-Salt       Lake City taxicabs.
      In the event the taxicab is licensed as such by Salt Lake City, there may be submitted, in lieu of the actual
policies and/or bonds, an affidavit that policies and bonds are in effect in the amounts prescribed and are on file in
Salt Lake City and, in such case, the applicant shall keep the same in full force and effect during the whole period
for which such taxicab is covered by a license issued hereunder.

1.18.050 - Driver's license-Requirements.
A.   An owner may not obtain a business license until the owner provides a list of all drivers of the owner's
     taxicabs, together with evidence that each driver has a current motor vehicle chauffeur's permit issued by the
     state, authorizing the transportation of passengers.
B.   Additionally, prior to issuing a business license, the license official shall verify that no driver of the owner's
     taxicabs has any outstanding arrest warrants.
C.   After a business license has been issued, the owner shall ensure that all drivers of owner's taxicabs are free of
     arrest warrants and have current motor vehicle chauffer's permits.

1.18.060 - Business licenses-Suspension             or revocation conditions.
A.   In addition to the grounds for suspension or revocation of business licenses provided in Copperton Metro
     Township Code Section 1.07.020, an owner's business license may be suspended or revoked for failure to
     comply with the requirements of this chapter. The procedure for doing so shall be as prescribed in Copperton
     Metro Township Code Section 1.07.030 et seq.
B.   Appeals of decisions to suspend or revoke a license under this section shall be heard as provided in Sections
     1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.18.070 - Rate schedule-Filing-Compliance.
A.   It shall be the duty of every owner to file with the license official a schedule of the rates to be charged in the
     operation of taxicabs, and the method upon which such rates shall be computed. Prior to any change in either
     the rates of fare or the method of computing the same, such owner must file the same with the license official
B.   No owner shall charge or attempt to charge any passenger a rate of fare other or different than that which has
     been heretofore filed with the license official in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
1.18.080 - Rate schedule-Posting           in taxicab.
     The driver of each taxicab shall display in a conspicuous place in the inside of the vehicle being operated,
where the same may be easily read by every person riding therein, a schedule of the rates or, if the rates are based on
zones, the zone map explaining the charges to be assessed .

1.18.090 - Taximeters.
      If the rates to be charged are to be computed by taximeters, it shall be the duty of every owner to keep the
taximeter thereon in good and workable condition, and at the beginning of every employment to set such taximeter
in the usual way so that it will register and compute on a mileage basis while said taxicab is running, and on a time
basis while waiting; and such taximeter shall be so placed that the face thereof where the fare is registered will be
plainly visible to passengers within the taxicab.

1.18.100 - Operation-Most          direct route required.
      Any driver employed carrying passengers to a definite point shall take the most direct route possible that will
carry the passenger safely and expeditiously to the desired destination.
1.18.110 - Duty to transport passengers.
     It is unlawful for any taxicab driver, while engaged in operating a taxicab, except as permitted herein, to refuse
to convey any person for any lawful purpose, with or without baggage, upon demand and tender of the lawful fare,
or, having undertaken to convey such person, to thereafter willfully to refuse or neglect so to do; provided, there
shall be no duty hereunder for any taxicab driver to transport any person who the taxicab driver reasonably believes
to be engaging in illegal conduct, or who is acting in a loud, boisterous or unruly manner.
1.18.120 - Additional passengers-Restrictions.
      Whenever a taxicab driver is transporting a passenger or passengers, such passenger or passengers shall have
the exclusive right to full and free use of the passenger compartment, and it is unlawful for the taxicab driver to
solicit or carry an additional passenger or passengers therein, except with the consent of the passenger or passengers
then being transported.

1.18.130 - Right to demand fare in advance.
     The owner or driver of any licensed taxicab shall have the right to demand in advance the minimum fare of any
person employing the owner or driver, and may refuse to convey any person who shall not comply with such
demand.
1.18.140 - Refusal to pay fare prohibited.
A.   It is unlawful for any person, having hired any licensed taxicab and having ridden therein, to refuse to pay the
     fare, not exceeding the rates prescribed in the schedule or zone maps permitted under this chapter.
B.   It is unlawful for any taxicab driver to charge rates different from those prescribed.

1.18.150 - Driver's duty to disclose information.
      It is unlawful for the owner of any particular taxicab or for any taxicab driver, upon being requested so to do
by a passenger or law enforcement officer, to refuse to give the name of the taxicab driver.
1.18.160 - Operation-Driver           to remain near vehicle.
      It is unlawful for any person, while engaged as taxicab driver, to leave the vehicle for a distance of more than
ten feet, except for the purpose of securing, when requested, the baggage of patrons.
1.18.170 - Alcoholic beverages prohibited.
     It is unlawful for any person, while engaged in operating a taxicab, to drink intoxicating liquors or alcoholic
beverages of any kind, including beer, regardless of the limit of its alcoholic content.
1.18.180 - Fraud and misrepresentation prohibited.
     It is unlawful for the driver of any taxicab, or for any person soliciting patronage for any taxicab, to practice
any deceit, fraud or misrepresentation in any manner whatever relative to matters pertaining to the business.
Chapter 1.19 - SHORT-TERM RENTALS
Sections:


1.19.010 - Short-term rental defined.
     "Short-term rental" means any dwelling or condominium or portion thereof that is available for use or is
actually used for accommodations or lodging of guests for a period of less than thirty consecutive days, wherein
guests pay a fee or other compensation for said use.
1.19.020 - License-Required.
     It is unlawful to conduct or operate a short-term rental without having obtained a license therefor.

1.19.030 - License-Application-Contents.
A.   Applications shall contain the following information:
     I.     The location of the short-term rental,
     2.     The number of rooms therein contained,
     3.     The number of persons the short-term rental will accommodate,
     4.     The name of a property manager,
     5.     A sales tax collection and accounting number,
     6.   The name, address and telephone number of a local responsible party who is available by telephone
          twenty-four hours per day, and
     7.   Such other information as the license official shall from time to time require .
B.   The application shall include a statement by the applicant affirming that the applicant is currently in
     compliance with all legal requirements and has paid all applicable taxes, fees and other charges, including but
     not limited to the transient room tax.

1. 19.040 - License-Application-Investigation              .
A.   Applications shall be referred by the license official to the local fire agency and Salt Lake County Health
     Department or such other agency as the license official may deem appropriate to make or cause to be made an
     investigation of the short-term rental premises , the applicant and other relevant matters. Agency
     recommendation as to the issuance or denial of the license, based on the above inspections, shall then be
     referred to the license official for approval or denial in accordance with the provisions of Sections 1.02.010
     through 1.02.140 of this title.
B.   A license that has been granted may be suspended or revoked for any violation of the provisions of this
     chapter, or for any of the reasons as contained in Section 1.07.020 of this title.
C.   Any appeal of a decision to deny, suspend or revoke a license shall be heard in accordance with those
     procedures established by Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title .
1.19.050 - License-Fee.
     The annual fee for a license under this chapter shall be the same as the general business license fee, as defined
in Section 1.08.040 of this title. A license with applicable fee is required for each separate short-term rental
property.

1.19.060 - Inspections for compliance.
     After a license has been granted, the license official may make periodic inspections of a short-term rental to
ensure compliance with this chapter and all other applicable law.
1.19.070 - Maintenance-Structures            and grounds-Other requirements and limitations.
A.   A short-term rental shall be maintained to the following minimum standards:
     1.    Periodic housekeeping service shall be provided by the owner, including removal of trash to the nearest
           collection point, on at least a weekly basis.
     2.    Short-term rentals may not be used for any of the following:
           a.   Commercial purposes not otherwise permitted in the zone;
           b.   Distribution of retail products or personal services to invitees for marketing or similar purposes; or
           c.   The outdoor display of goods and merchandise for sale.
B.   The access to the short-term rental unit and the layout of the short-term rental shall be designed so that noise
     and physical trespass from the short-term rental unit is not likely to be a substantial intrusion on adjoining
     properties. If the short-term rental unit is a single family home, duplex, condominium or other dwelling place
     and shares an access, hallway, common wall, or driveway with another dwelling, written consent of the owner
     of the other dwelling is required.
C.   Responsible Party.
     1.    The licensee must designate a responsible party who is an individual or property management company
           residing or maintaining an office in Salt Lake County.
     2.    The responsible party is personally liable for failure to properly manage the short-term rental.
     3.    The responsible party must be available by telephone, or otherwise, twenty-four hours per day and must
           be able to respond to inquiries within twenty minutes ofreceipt of an inquiry.
D.   The licensee must have a sales tax collection and sales tax accounting number for the rental operation and the
     sales tax number must be included on the short-term rental application. All applicable taxes, charges and fees,
     including the transient room tax, must be paid in full during the period oflicensure.

1.19.080 - Nameplate sign.
A.   One nameplate sign shall be permanently attached to the building in a conspicuous location near the front
     entrance of the short-term rental. The nameplate sign shall:
     I.     Provide the name and telephone number of at least one responsible individual located within Salt Lake
            County that can be contacted twenty-four hours a day,
     2.     Contain the occupant load of the building as allowed by the International Building Code,
     3.     Be made of durable, weather resistant material,
     4.     Not exceed three inches by five inches in dimension, and
     5.     Contain no advertising.

1.19.090 - Separate violations.
      For purposes of prosecution of violations of this chapter, each day that any violation occurs, or that applicable
taxes and fees are unpaid, is deemed to constitute a separate violation.

Chapter 1.20 - SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES AND EMPLOYEE LICENSING
Sections:


1.20.010 - Title for citation.
     The ordinance codified in this chapter shall be titled the "Sexually Oriented Businesses and Employee
Licensing Ordinance."

1.20.020 - Purposes of provisions and findings.
A.   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to:
     1.     Establish reasonable and uniform regulations governing the time, place and manner of operation of
            sexually oriented businesses and their employees in the metro;
     2.     Reduce the adverse secondary effect that such businesses have upon communities, including the metro;
            and
     3.     Protect the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the metro.
B.   This chapter shall be construed to protect the governmental interests recognized by this chapter consistent with
     protections provided by the constitutions of the United States and the state of Utah. It is not the intent nor
     effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually oriented materials protected by the first
     amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their
     intended market.
C.   Findings: Based on findings incorporated in the cases of Pap's A.M. v. City of Erie, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); City
     of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Young v. American Mini Theatres, 426 U.S. 50
     (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560 (1991); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972);
     O'Connor v. City and County of Denver, 894 F.2d 1210 (10th Cir. 1990); Z.J. Gifts D-2, L.L.C. v. City of
     Aurora, 136 F.3d 683 (10th Cir. 1998); Dodger's Bar & Grill Inc. v. Johnson County, 98 F.3d 1262 (10th Cir.
     1996); Connection Distrib. Co. v. Reno, 154 F.3d 281 (6th Cir. 1998); Sundance Assocs. v. Reno, 139 F.3d
     804 (10th Cir. 1998); American Library Association v. Reno, 33 F.3d 78 (D.C. Cir. 1994); Dodger's Bar &
     Grill, Inc. v. Johnson County, 32 F.3d 1436 (10th Cir. 1994); American Target Advertising, Inc. v. Giani, 199
     F.3d 1241; MS News Co. v. Casado, 721 F.2d 1281 (10th Cir. 1983); Cortese v. Black, No. 95-1429, 1996
     U.S. App. LEXIS 15311 (10th Cir., June 25, 1996); Salt Lake City v. Wood, 1999 Utah App. 323, 991 P.2d
     595 (Utah Ct. App. 1999); United States v. Freedberg, 724 F.Supp. 851 (D. Utah 1989); and other cases; and
     on testimony to Congress in 136 Cong. Rec. S 8987; 135 Cong. Rec. S. 14519; 135 Cong. Rec. S 5636; 134
     Cong. Rec. E 3750; and reports of secondary effects occurring in and around sexually oriented businesses,
including, but not limited to, Phoenix, Arizona - 1984: Minneapolis, Minnesota - 1980; Houston, Texas - 1997;
Utahpolis, Utah; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Los Angeles, California - 1977; Whittier,
California - 1978: Austin, Texas - 1986; Seattle, Washington - 1989; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986;
Cleveland, Ohio; and Dallas, Texas - 1997; St. Croix County, Wisconsin - 1993; Bellevue, Washington, -
 1998; Newport News, Virginia - 1996; New York Times Square study - 1994; Phoenix, Arizona - 1995-98;
and also on findings from the paper entitled strip clubs according to strippers: exposing workplace sexual
violence by Kelly Holsopple, program director, freedom and justice center for prostitution resources,
Minneapolis, Minnesota, and from sexually oriented businesses: an insider's view by David Sherman,
presented to the Michigan house committee on ethics and constitutional law, Jan. 12, 2000, and the report of
the attorney general's working group on the regulation of sexually oriented businesses (June 6, 1989, state of
Minnesota), the metro council finds:
1.   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful and unhealthy activities that are
     presently uncontrolled by the unlicensed operators of the establishments. Further, there is presently no
     mechanism in this metro to make the owners and operators of these establishments responsible for the
     activities that occur on their premises.
2.   Certain employees of unregulated "sexually oriented businesses" defined in this chapter engage in higher
     incidence of certain types of illicit sexual behavior than employees of other establishments.
3.   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur at unregulated sexually oriented
     businesses, especially those which provide private or semiprivate booths or cubicles for viewing films,
     videos or live sex shows.
4.   Offering and providing such unregulated space encourages such activities, which creates unhealthy
     conditions.
5.   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades and other sexually oriented businesses for the
     purpose of engaging in sex within the premises of such sexually oriented businesses, or for the purpose of
     purchasing or selling illicit drugs.
6.   Numerous communicable diseases may be spread by activities occurring in sexually oriented businesses,
     including, but not limited to, syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS),
     genital herpes, hepatitis, salmonella, campylobacter and shigella infections, chlamydia, mycoplasmal and
     ureoplasmal infections, trichomoniasis and chancroid.
7.   According to research from the Kaiser family foundation, an estimated six hundred fifty thousand to nine
     hundred thousand Americans are infected with HIV. The number of new HIV infections occurring each
     year is now about forty-one thousand. Men and women of all races are most likely to be infected by
     sexual contact.
8.   Relevant statistics revealed that a total of one thousand six hundred seventy-two AIDS cases had been
     reported in Utah as of January 1, 1999. Utah has required HIV case reporting since 1989, and shows one
     thousand five hundred fifty people currently living with HIV (seven hundred sixty-two) or AIDS (seven
     hundred eighty-eight) in the state.
9.   The centers for disease control and prevention estimates that as many as one in three people with HIV do
     not know they are infected.
10. The number of cases of early (less than one year) syphilis in the United States reported annually has risen,
    with thirty-three thousand six hundred thirteen cases reported in 1982 and forty-five thousand two
    hundred through November of 1990.
11. The number of cases of gonorrhea in the United States reported annually remains at a high level, with
    over five hundred thousand cases being reported in 1990.
12. The surgeon general of the United States in his report of October 22, 1986, has advised the American
    public that AIDS and HIV infection may be transmitted through sexual contact, intravenous drug abuse,
    exposure to infected blood and blood components, and from an infected mother to her newborn.
     13. According to the best scientific evidence, AIDS and HIV infection, as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are
         principally transmitted by sexual acts. See, e.g., findings of U.S. department of health and human
         services.
     14. Sanitary conditions in some sexually oriented businesses are unhealthy, in part, because the activities
         conducted there are unhealthy, and, in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the
         failure of the owners and the operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities and maintain those
         facilities.
     15. Numerous studies and reports have determined that semen is found in the areas of sexually oriented
         businesses where persons view "adult" oriented films.
     16. The findings noted in subsections 8.1 through 8.15 of this section raise substantial governmental
         concerns.
     17. Sexually oriented businesses have operational characteristics that should be reasonably regulated in order
         to protect those substantial governmental concerns.
     18. A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to place the burden of that reasonable
         regulation on the owners and the operators of the sexually oriented businesses. Further, such a licensing
         procedure will place a heretofore nonexistent incentive on the operators to see that the sexually oriented
         business is run in a manner consistent with the health, safety and welfare of its patrons and employees, as
         well as the citizens of the metro. It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the
         actual operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and control of the premises and
         activities occurring therein.
     19. Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting on premises with adult booths
         advances a substantial governmental interest in curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity
         occurring in adult theaters.
     20.   Requiring licensees of sexually oriented businesses to keep information regarding current employees and
           certain past employees will help reduce the incidence of certain types of criminal behavior by facilitating
           the identification of potential witnesses or suspects and by preventing minors from working in such
           establishments.
     21.   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately responsible for the day to day operation
           and maintenance of the sexually oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
           significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in preventing the spread of
           sexually transmitted diseases and will prevent the further secondary effects of dissemination of illegal
           obscenity, child pornography, and to minors, materials harmful to them.
     22.   It is desirable in the prevention of the spread of communicable diseases to obtain a limited amount of
           information regarding certain employees who may engage in the conduct which this chapter is designed
           to prevent or who are likely to be witnesses to such activity.
     23.   The fact that an applicant for an adult use has been convicted of a sexually related crime leads to the
           rational assumption that the applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention of this chapter.
     24.   The barring of such individuals from employment in sexually oriented businesses for a specified period of
           years serves to prevent distribution of illegal material, to prevent conduct which leads to the transmission
           of sexually transmitted diseases, and to preclude the establishment of criminal enterprises within the
           metro.
     25.   The general welfare, health, morals and safety of the citizens of the metro will be promoted by the
           enactment of this chapter.

1.20.030 - Application of provisions.
      This chapter imposes regulatory standards and license requirements on sexually oriented businesses, and
certain employees of those businesses. Except where the context or specific provisions require, this chapter does not
supersede or nullify any other related ordinances, including but not limited to those codified in Chapter 1.02, Title
I 0, and Title 19 of this code.
1.20.040 - Definitions.
     For the purpose of this chapter, the following terms shall have the following meanings:
      "Adult bookstore" or "adult video store" means a commercial establishment which offers adult material for
sale, rent or any other form of consideration unless:
     1.   The individual items of adult material comprise less than ten percent of the individual items as stock in
          trade and less than ten percent of gross sales,
     2.   Are not publicly displayed, and
     3.   Are not accessible to minors at the establishment.
      "Adult business" means an adult theater, adult motion picture theater, adult bookstore, adult video store or any
other business which has as one of its principal purposes the offering of a product or service which is intended to
provide sexual stimulation or sexual gratification to patrons and is characterized by an emphasis on nudity or
seminudity. This definition shall not apply to social clubs or on-premise beer taverns which are not required to have
a seminude dancing bar license.
     "Adult material" means any one or more of the following:
     1.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, photographs, films, motion pictures, video
          cassettes, slides or other visual representations, recordings or audio matter, the central theme of which
          depicts or describes specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
     2.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia which are designed for use in connection with specified sexual
          activities, except for legitimate, medically recognized contraception.
      "Adult motion picture theater" means a commercial establishment which regularly features films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or similar photographic reproductions which are characterized by the depiction or
description of "specified sexual activities" or specified anatomical areas. "Adult arcades" and "adult booths" are
included within this definition.
      "Adult theater" means a theater, concert hall, auditorium or portion thereof or similar commercial
establishment which regularly features persons who appear in a state of nudity or live performances which are
characterized by the exposure of specified anatomical areas.
     "Business license authority" means the license official or designee.
     "Employ" means hiring an individual to work for pecuniary compensation, whether such person is hired on the
payroll of the employer, as an independent contractor, as an agent or in any other form of relationship for pecuniary
compensation.
      "Escort" means any person who, for pecuniary compensation, dates, socializes, visits, consorts with or
accompanies or offers to date, consort, socialize, visit or accompany another or others to or about social affairs,
entertainment or places of amusement or within any place of public or private resort or any business or commercial
establishment or any private quarters. "Escort" shall not be construed to include persons who provide business or
personal services such as licensed private nurses, aides for the elderly or handicapped, social secretaries or similar
service personnel whose relationship with their patron is characterized by a bona fide contractual relationship having
a duration of more than twelve hours and who provide a service not principally characterized as dating or
socializing.
      "Escort service" means an individual or entity who, for pecuniary compensation, furnishes or offers to furnish
escorts or provides or offers to introduce patrons to escorts.
      "Escort service runner" means any third person, not an escort, who, regardless of pecuniary compensation, acts
in the capacity of an agent or broker for an escort service, escort or patron by contacting or meeting with escort
services, escorts or patrons at any location within the metro, whether or not such third person is employed by such
escort service, escort or patron, or by another business or is an independent contractor or self-employed.
      "Nude and seminude dancing agency" means any person, agency, firm, corporation, partnership or any other
entity or individual which furnishes, books or otherwise engages or offers to furnish, book or otherwise engage the
service of a model, dancer or similar person licensed pursuant to this chapter for performance or appearance at a
nude entertainment business or seminude dancing bars.
     "Nude entertainment business" means a business, including an adult theater, where employees perform or
appear in the presence of patrons of the business in a state of nudity or seminudity. A business shall also be
presumed to be a nude entertainment business if the business holds itself out as such a business.
     "Nudity" or "state of nudity" means a state of dress in which the nipple and areola of the female breast or male
or female genitals, pubic region, buttocks or anus are covered by less than the covering required in the definition of
seminude, or the displaying of any "specified anatomical area."
      "Outcall services" means escorts and businesses which provide, as any portion of their business, nude or
seminude services outside of the premises in any place of private resort or private quarters by models, dancers or
other similar employees.
      "Patron" means any person who contracts with or employs any outcall services or the customer of any business
licensed pursuant to this chapter.
     "Pecuniary compensation" means to be paid any commission, fee, salary, tip, gratuity, hire, profit, reward or
any other form of consideration.
     "Person" means any person, unincorporated association, corporation, partnership or other legal entity.
     "Seminude" means a state of dress in which opaque clothing covers no more than the genitals, pubic region,
anus and the nipple and areola of the female breast. In accordance with the above, at a minimum, the genitals, pubic
region and anus shall be fully covered by an opaque covering no narrower than four inches wide in the front and five
inches wide in the back which shall not taper to less than one inch wide at the narrowest point.
      "Seminude dancing bar" means any business which holds a social club liquor license or on-premise beer tavern
license and offers its customers live entertainment involving seminudity, or live entertainment which is
distinguished by an emphasis on the displaying of any portion of human buttocks or the female breast with less than
a fully opaque covering.
     "Sexually oriented business" means nude entertainment businesses, outcall services , adult businesses,
seminude dancing bars and nude and seminude dancing agencies as defined by this chapter .
     "Sexually oriented business employees" means:
     1.    Those employees who work on the premises of the sexually oriented business in activities related to the
           sexually oriented portion of the business. This includes all managing employees, dancers, escorts,
           models, and other similar employees whether or not hired as employees, agents or independent
           contractors.
     2.    All persons employed by an outcall service making outcall meetings under this chapter, including
           dancers, escorts, models, guards, escort runners, drivers and other similar employees, regardless of the
           employee's state of dress, shall be considered sexually oriented business employees.
     3.    "Sexually oriented business employees" shall not include individuals whose work is unrelated to the
           sexually oriented portion of the business, such as janitors, bookkeepers, cooks, serving persons,
           bartenders and similar employees except where they may be managers or supervisors of the business.
     "Specified anatomical areas" means:
     1.    Human male and female genitals, pubic area or anus,
     2.    The human female breast from the beginning of the areola, papilla or nipple to the end thereof,
     3.    The cleavage of the human buttocks, or
     4.    Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
     "Specified sexual activities" means:
     1.    Acts or simulated acts, while in a state of nudity or seminudity, of:
           a.   Masturbation,
           b.   Human sexual intercourse,
           c.   Sexual copulation between a person and a beast,
           d.   Fellatio,
           e.   Cunnilingus ,
           f.   Bestiality,
           g.   Pederasty,
           h.   Buggery, or
           1.   Any anal copulation between a human male and another human male, human female or beast.
     2.   Manipulating, caressing or fondling by any person of the human genitals, pubic area, anus, buttocks or
          the female breast for the purpose of arousing or gratifying the sexual desire of a person.
     3.    Flageliation or torture by or upon a person in a state of nudity or seminudity or the condition of being
           fettered, bound or otherwise physically restrained while in such a state.

1.20.050 - Obscenity-Statutory          provisions.
      Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to permit the showing or display of any matter which is contrary to the
provisions of Chapter 10.28 of this code or other applicable federal or state statutes prohibiting obscenity.

1.20.060 - Location and zoning restrictions.
      It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business at any location within the metro not zoned for
such business. Sexually oriented businesses shall only be allowed in areas zoned for their use pursuant to Title 19 of
this Code. Every sexually oriented business requiring conditional use approval shall be required to obtain such
approval before a sexually oriented business license application will be accepted or processed by the business
licensing authority.

1.20.070 - Business license required.
      It is unlawful for any person to operate a sexually oriented business, as defined herein, in the metro without
first obtaining a sexually oriented business regulatory license. The license shall specify the type of business for
which it is obtained. The license shall be obtained pursuant to the general business license procedures outlined in
Chapter 1.02.

1.20.080 - Exemptions from business license requirements.
      The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any sex therapist or similar individual licensed by the state to
provide bona fide sexual therapy or counseling, nor shall it apply to any licensed medical practitioner, licensed
nurse, psychiatrist or psychologist, nor any educator licensed by the state for activities in the classroom.

1.20.090 - Legitimate artistic modeling.
A.   The metro does not intend to prohibit legitimate modeling which may occur in a state of nudity for purposes
     protected by the First Amendment or similar state protections. The metro does intend to prohibit prostitution
     and related offenses occurring under the guise of nude modeling.
8.   Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection K of Section 1.20.210, a licensed outcall employee may appear
     in a state of nudity before a customer or patron providing that a written contract for such appearance was
     entered into between the customer or patron and the employee at least twenty-four hours before the nude
     appearance in accordance with the provisions of Section l.20.220. All of the other applicable provisions of this
     chapter shall still apply to such nude appearance.

1.20.100 - Business categories-Number              of licenses.
A.   The categories of sexually oriented business are:
     I.    Outcall services;
     2.    Adult businesses;
     3.   Nude entertainment businesses;
     4.   Seminude dancing bars;
     5.   Nude and seminude dancing agencies.
B.   It is unlawful for any business premises to operate or be licensed for more than one category of sexually
     oriented business, except that a nude and seminude dance agency may be located on the same premises of a
     seminude dancing bar or the same premises ofan outcall services business.
1.20.110 - Employee licenses.
A.   It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to employ any individual in the capacity of a sexually oriented
     business employee in the metro unless that employee first obtains a sexually oriented business employee
     license from the local law enforcement agency, acting on behalf of the metro.
B.   It is unlawful for any person performing outcall services or any person performing in a state of nudity or
     seminudity to work or perform in the metro unless such person is employed by an outcall service business,
     nude or seminude dancing agency licensed by the license official or said person is licensed by the local law
     enforcement agency on behalf of the metro as an employee of an outcall service business or a nude or
     seminude dancing agency.
1.20.120 - Employee license-Application-Disclosures                    required.
      Before any applicant may be licensed as a sexually oriented business employee pursuant to this chapter, the
applicant shall submit in writing, on a form to be supplied by the local law enforcement agency, on behalf of the
metro, the following:
     A.   Basic Information.
          I.   The correct legal name of each applicant, including any other names or aliases used by the
               individual,
          2.   The age, date and place of birth,
          3.    Height,
          4.    Weight,
          5.    Color of hair,
          6.    Color of eyes,
          7.    Present business address and telephone number,
          8.    Present residence and telephone number,
          9.    Utah driver's license or identification number (together with production of the license or
                identification), and
          10. Social security number.
     B.   Attached to the form as provided above, a color photograph of the applicant clearly showing the
          individual's face, and the individual's fingerprints on a form provided by the local law enforcement
          agency;
     C.   A statement of the business, occupation or employment history of the applicant for three years
          immediately preceding the date of the filing of the application;
     D.   A statement as to whether or not the applicant or individual has ever had any professional or vocational
          license or permit denied, revoked or suspended. In the event of any such denial, revocation or suspension,
          state the date, the name of the acting jurisdiction, and state in full the reasons for the denial, revocation or
          suspension. A copy of any order of denial, revocation or suspension shall be attached to the application;
     E.   A current copy of a criminal background check of the applicant performed by BCI.
     F.   For any individual applicant required to obtain a sexually oriented business employee license for outcall
          services as a model, dancer or other similar employee or escort, or as a nude or seminude entertainer
          employed by any other sexually oriented business, a certificate from the Salt Lake County Health
          Department, stating that the individual has, within thirty days immediately preceding the date of the
          application, been examined and found to be free of the following contagious diseases: gonorrhea,
          syphilis, and chlamydia, and is negative for the AIDS antibody. Said certificate shall be updated
          quarterly during the license term by the applicant and submitted to the license official. Said certificate
          shall also be required for the renewal of such license.

1.20.130 - Business license-Fees.
      Each applicant for a sexually oriented business license shall be required to pay regulatory license fees to the
local law enforcement agency in accordance with the consolidated fee schedule, which shall be approved by the
metro council and shall be on file with the license official.

1.20.140 - Business license-Premises                location and name.
A.   It is unlawful to conduct business under a license issued pursuant to this chapter at any location other than the
     licensed premises. Any premises to which telephone calls are automatically forwarded by such business shall
     require a separate license.
8.   It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to do business in the metro under any name other than the
     business name specified in the application.

1.20.150 - Employee license-Denial                 conditions-Appeals.
A.   The local law enforcement agency may deny, on the metro's behalf, an employee license for one or more of the
     following:
     1.   The applicant is under eighteen years of age or any higher age if the license sought requires a higher age;
     2.   The applicant has provided materially false information in the application;
     3.   The applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of this chapter within two years
          immediately preceding the date the application is submitted to the local law enforcement agency (the fact
          that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect on the disqualification pursuant to this section);
     4.   An applicant is in violation of any provision of this chapter;
     5.   An applicant has been convicted of or pied nolo contendere or no contest to:
          a.    A felony under the laws of the state of Utah;
          b.    Any crime involving moral turpitude;
           c.   Any of the following listed crimes, whether or not constituting a felony or a crime of moral
                turpitude:
                1.     Prostitution;
                11.    Exploitation of prostitution;
                iii.   Aggravated promotion of prostitution;
                1v.    Aggravated exploitation of prostitution;
                v.     Solicitation of sex acts;
                v1.    Sex acts for hire;
                vii. Compelling prostitution;
                viii. Aiding prostitution;
                1x.    Sale, distribution or display of material harmful to minors;
                x.     Sexual performance by minors;
                x1.    Possession of child pornography;
                xn.    Public lewdness;
                xiii. Indecent exposure;
                xiv. Any crime involving sexual abuse or exploitation of a child;
                xv.   Sexual assault or aggravated sexual assault;
                xv1. Rape;
                xvii. Forcible sodomy;
                xviii. Forcible sexual abuse;
                xix. Incest;
                xx.   Harboring a runaway child;
                xx1. Criminal attempt, conspiracy or solicitation to commit and of the foregoing offenses or
                xxii. Offenses involving similar elements from any jurisdiction regardless of the exact title of the
                      offense for which:
                      (I)   Less than two years have elapsed from the date of conviction if the conviction is of a
                            misdemeanor offense or less than five years if the convictions are of two or more
                            misdemeanors within the five years , or
                      (2)   Less than five years have elapsed from the date of conviction, if the offense is of a
                            felony;
           d.   Appeal of a conviction shall have no effect on the disqualification pursuant to this section.
     6.    An applicant has an outstanding warrant for his or her arrest.
B.   Any person who is denied an employee license may appeal within fifteen days from the date of denial to the
     metro council for a hearing regarding issuance of the employee license. The council shall then schedule a
     hearing in conformance with general business license denial proceedings, as set forth in this title, as amended.
1.20.160 - License-Term.
      Sexually oriented business and employee licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall be valid from the date of
issuance through the final day of the same month of the next calendar year.

1.20.170 - License-Notice          of change of information.
      Any change in the information required to be submitted under this chapter for either a sexually oriented
business license or sexually oriented business employee license shall be given, in writing, to the license official and
the local law enforcement agency within fourteen calendar days after such change.
1.20.180 - License-Transfer          limitations.
A.   Sexually oriented business licenses granted under this chapter shall not be transferable to a new location or to a
     new owner .
     1.   It is unlawful for a corporation, partnership or other noncorporate business entity holding a sexually
          oriented business regulatory license to transfer any part of its business interest or ownership in excess of
          ten percent thereof without filing a new license application and obtaining a new sexually oriented
          business regulatory license from the license official.
     2.    If any transfer of the controlling interest in a business licensee occurs, the license is immediately null and
           void and the business shall not operate until a separate new license application has been submitted with
           all applicable fees and a new regulatory license has been issued by the license official as provided in this
           chapter.
B.   It is unlawful for a sexually oriented business employee to transfer the employee's license to another. Any such
     transfer or attempted transfer shall render the license null and void .
C.   Outcall services employees and nude and seminude dancers may transfer their employee license from one
     outcall service business or from a nude or seminude dancing agency to another upon submitting a letter of
     employment from the new business or agency and upon payment of a twenty-five dollar transfer fee.
D.   It is unlawful for the holder of a sexually oriented business license to sell, transfer the business ownership or
     location, or otherwise cease operating the business without notifying the license official and surrendering the
     licensee's sexually oriented business license.

1.20.190 - License-Display.
A.   It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business to fail to display the license granted pursuant to this chapter in
     a prominent location within the business premises.
8.   It is unlawful for any individual licensed pursuant to this chapter to fail to carry their employee license on their
     person, at all times while engaged in licensed activities. If the individual is nude, such license shall be visibly
     displayed within the same room in which the employee is performing.
C.   It is unlawful to fail to carry or show the appropriate licenses while engaged in licensed activities upon request
     of the local law enforcement agency, license official or other enforcement agency.

1.20.200 - License-Statement           in advertisements.
    It is unlawful for any advertisement by the sexually oriented business or employee to fail to include the license
number.

1.20.210 - Regulations and unlawful activities.
     It is unlawful for any sexually oriented business or sexually oriented business employee to:
     A.   Allow persons under the age of eighteen years, or the age of twenty-one years if required by applicable
          liquor ordinance, on the licensed premises, except that in adult businesses which exclude minors from
          less than all of the business premises, minors shall not be permitted in excluded areas;
     B.   Allow, offer or agree to conduct any outcall business with persons under the age of eighteen years;
     C.   Except for seminude dancing bars, to allow, offer or agree to allow any alcoholic beverages being stored,
          used or consumed on or in the licensed premises;
     D.   Allow the outside door to the premises to be locked while any customer is in the premises;
     E.   Allow , offer or agree to gambling on the licensed premises;
     F.   Except as provided in (F)(l) below, to allow, offer or agree to any touching between a sexually oriented
          business employee and any patron or customer during a performance, or to specified sexual activities
          between patrons and employees;
           I.   Employees of outcall services and patrons may touch provided that such touching does not violate
                the provisions of Section l.20.220(O) ofthis chapter;
     G.   Allow, offer or agree to or engage in the illegal possession, use, sale or distribution of controlled
          substances on the licensed premises;
     H.   Allow sexually oriented business employees to possess, use, sell or distribute controlled substances while
          engaged in the activities of the business;
     I.   Allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of prostitution, solicitation of a minor or
          committing activities harmful to a minor to occur on the licensed premises or, in the event of an outcall
          employee or business, the outcall employee committing, offering or agreeing to commit prostitution,
          attempting to commit prostitution, soliciting prostitution, soliciting a minor or committing activities
          harmful to a minor;
     J.   Allow, offer, commit or agree to any specified sexual activity or sex act as validly defined by metro
          ordinances or state statute;
     K.   Allow, offer or agree to any outcall services employee appearing before any customer or patron in a state
          ofnudity without first complying with the provision of Section 1.20.090.

1.20.220 - Outcall services-Operation            requirements.
    It is unlawful for any business or employee providing outcall services contracted for in the metro to fail to
comply with the following requirements:
     A.   All businesses licensed to provide outcall services pursuant to this chapter shall provide to each patron a
          written contract in receipt of pecuniary compensation for services.
          1.   The contract shall clearly state the address where the services are to be performed, the type of
               services to be performed, the length of time such services shall be performed, the total amount such
               services shall cost the patron, and any special terms or conditions relating to the services to be
               performed.
          2.   The business licensee shall keep and maintain a copy of each written contract entered into pursuant
               to this section for a period not less than one year from the date of provision of services thereunder.
               The contracts shall be numbered and entered into a register, which shall also be kept for one year,
               listing the contract number, date, names of all employees involved in the contract, and pecuniary
               compensation paid. The register shall be made available to the local law enforcement agency and
               Salt Lake County Health Department for inspection during normal operating hours.
     B.   All outcall businesses licensed pursuant to this chapter shall maintain an open office at which the licensee
          or licensee's designated agent may be personally contacted during all hours outcall employees are
          working . The address and phone number of the license location shall appear and be included in all patron
          contracts and published advertisements . Outcall businesses with premises licensed and located within the
          metro shall not provide or allow private rooms or booths where the patrons may meet with outcall
          employees either at the licensed premises or at any other location, nor shall patrons meet outcall
          employees at the business premises.
     C.   Outcall services shall not advertise in such a manner that would lead a reasonably prudent person to
          conclude that specified sexual activities would be performed by the outcall employee .
     D.   During an outcall appearance, it is unlawful:
          1.   To appear nude or seminude in the presence of persons under the age of eighteen;
          2.   To allow , offer or agree to any touching of the outcall employee appearing nude or seminude by the
               patron or other persons present to view said performance;
          3.   To allow, offer or agree to commit prostitution, solicitation of prostitution, solicitation ofa minor or
               committing activities harmful to a minor;
          4.   To allow , offer, commit, permit or agree to any specified sexual activity or any other sex act as
               validly defined by metro ordinances or state statute or to remain in the presence of or continue an
               outcall performance if a patron or other person engages in any specified sexual activity or sex act;
          5.    For an outcall employee to be within five feet of any other person while nude or seminude.

1.20.230 - Adult business-Design           of premises.
A.   In addition to the general requirements of disclosure for a sexually oriented business, any applicant for a
     license as an adult business shall also submit a diagram, drawn to scale, of the premises on or for which the
     license is to be granted. The design and construction, prior to granting a license or opening for business, shall
     comply with all applicable building code requirements including the obtaining of applicable building permit
     and shall conform to the following:
     I.   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed view from
          a manager's station of every area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose,
          excluding restrooms.
     2.   Restrooms may not contain any video reproduction equipment or any of the business merchandise. Signs
          shall be posted requiring only one person being allowed in the restroom per stall and only one person in
          any stall at a time and requiring that patrons shall not be allowed access to manager's station areas.
     3.   For businesses which exclude minors from the entire premises, all windows, doors and other apertures to
          the premises shall be darkened or otherwise constructed to prevent anyone outside the premises from
          seeing the inside of the premises. Businesses which exclude minors from less than all of the premises
          shall be designed and constructed so that minors may not see into the area from which they are excluded.
     4.   The diagram required shall not necessarily be a professional engineer's or architect's blueprint; however,
          the diagram must show marked internal dimensions, all overhead lighting fixtures, and ratings for
          illumination capacity.
B.   To ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been designated as an area
     in which patrons will not be permitted, it shall be the duty of the licensee and the licensee's employees to
     ensure that the manager's station is manned during all operating hours and that the views from the manager's
     station remain unobstructed by any doors, walls, merchandise, display racks or any other materials, at all times
     that any patron is present in the premises.
C.   The premises shall at all times be equipped and operated with overhead lighting fixtures of sufficient intensity
     to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted access at an illumination of not less than one foot-
     candle, measured at floor level. It shall be the duty of the licensee and the licensee's employees present on the
     premises to ensure that the illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is present in
     the premises.

1.20.240 - Nude entertainment business-Design               of premises.
A.   It is unlawful for a business premises licensed for nude entertainment to:
     1.   Permit a bed, sofa, mattress or similar item in any room on the premises, except that:
          a.    A sofa may be placed in a reception room open to the public or in any office to which patrons are
                not admitted, and
          b.    In an adult theater such items may be on the stage as part of a performance.
     2.   Allow any door on any room used for the business to be lockable from the inside, except for:
          a.    The door to an office to which patrons shall not be admitted,
          b.    Outside doors, and
          c.    Restroom doors.
     3.   Provide any room in which the employee(s) and the patron(s) are alone together without a separation by a
          solid physical barrier at least three feet high and eighteen inches wide. The patron(s) shall remain on one
          side of the barrier and the employee(s) shall remain on the other side of the barrier.
B.   Adult theaters shall also require that the performance area shall be separated from the patrons by a minimum of
     five feet, which separation shall be delineated by a physical barrier at least three feet high.

1.20.250 - Nude entertainment business-Location               restriction.
     It is unlawful for any business licensed for nude entertainment to be located within three hundred thirty feet of
a business licensed for the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages.

1.20.260 - Seminude dancing bar-Operation               prerequisites.
A.   It is unlawful for any business licensed for the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages pursuant to metro
     ordinances to:
     1.   Allow any person on the premises to dance, model or be or perform in a state of seminudity without first
          obtaining a license pursuant to this chapter;
     2.   Allow any person on the premises to dance, model or be or perform in a state of nudity.
B.   In establishments licensed to sell, store or consume alcoholic beverages, seminude dancing shall be allowed
     only in social clubs and on-premise beer taverns.

1.20.270 - Seminude dancing bar-Performer               restrictions.
     It is unlawful for any person to perform or appear in a state of seminudity as a dancer, model, performer or
otherwise on the premises of a business licensed as a seminude dancing bar, either gratuitously or for compensation,
unless that person is licensed as a sexually oriented business employee.

1.20.280 - Nude and seminude dancing agencies.
A.   It is unlawful for any person to furnish, book or otherwise engage the services of a dancer, model or performer
     to appear in a state of seminudity or nudity for pecuniary compensation in, or for, any nude entertainment
     business, adult theater or seminude dancing bar licensed pursuant to this chapter unless such person is licensed
     as a nude and seminude dancing agency pursuant to this chapter.
B.   It is unlawful for any individual or entity to furnish, book or otherwise engage or permit any person to perform
     as a professional dancer, model or performer in a state of seminudity or nudity, either gratuitously or for
     compensation, in or for any business licensed or required to be licensed pursuant to this chapter unless such
     person is licensed pursuant to this chapter.

1.20.290 - Performers-Prohibited           activities.
      It is unlawful for any dancer, model or performer during a performance m any establishment requiring a
license as a seminude dancing bar pursuant to this chapter:
     A.    To touch in any manner any other person;
     B.    To throw any object or clothing off the stage area;
     C.    To accept any money, drink or any other object directly from any person;
     D.    To allow another person to touch such performer or to place any money or object on the performer or
           within the costume or person of the performer;
     E.    For the performer to place anything within the costume or adjust or move the costume while performing
           so as to render the performer in a state of nudity; or
     F.    To engage in any specified sexual activity.
1.20.300 - Performers-Costume            requirements.
      It is unlawful for performers in seminude dancing bars to fail to comply with the following costume
requirements:
     A.    Performers shall at all times be costumed during performances in a manner not to violate any metro
           ordinance concerning disorderly or obscene conduct, and such performers shall not perform or conduct
           themselves in such a manner as to violate the provision of any metro ordinance.
     B.    No performer shall appear in any business required to be licensed as a seminude dancing bar during a
           performance or appearance in a state of nudity and, in the case of a female performer, the areola and
           nipple of such performer shall be completely covered with opaque clothing in a shape and color other
           than the natural shape and color of the nipple and areola.
     C.    While on the portion of a business licensed as a seminude dancing bar used by patrons, performers shall
           be dressed in opaque clothing covering the performer's buttocks and pubic area and, in the case of a
           female, the breast and nipples.

1.20.310 - Stage requirements.
      It is unlawful for any performer in a business licensed as a seminude dancing bar to appear in costume other
than on a stage which shall be at least three feet from the portion of the premises on which patrons are allowed and
which shall be separated from the patrons by a solid barrier or railing the top of which shall be at least two and one-
half feet from the floor.

1.20.320 - Patrons-Prohibited          activities.
      It is unlawful for any person or any patron of any seminude dancing bar or nude entertainment business during
a performance to touch in any manner a model, dancer or performer; to place any money or object on or within the
costume or person of any performer; or to give or offer to give to any such performer any drinks, money or object,
except that money may be placed on the barrier which shall not be picked up by the performer except by hand after
the performance.

1.20.330 - Nudity-Defenses           to prosecution.
      It is a defense to prosecution or violation under this chapter that a person appearing in a state of nudity did so
in a modeling class operated:
     A.   By a proprietary school licensed by the state or a college, junior college or university supported entirely
          or partly by taxation;
     B.   By a private college or university which maintains and operates educational programs in which credits are
          transferable to a college, junior college or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.

1.20.340 - Hours of operation.
A.   It is unlawful for the premises of an adult business, nude entertainment business, outcall services or nude and
     seminude dancing agency to remain open to make a sale, or to solicit a sale, a performance, or a service, or
     where otherwise allowed, permit patrons on the premises, between the hours of one a.m. and eight a.m. of any
     day. The operating hours for seminude dancing bars shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 6.10 of this
     code.
B.   It is unlawful for any employee of a nude entertainment business, adult theater, seminude dancing bar or nude
     and seminude dancing agency to engage in a performance between the hours of one a.m. and ten a.m. of any
     day.

1.20.350 - Violation-Injunction         when.
      An entity or individual who operates or causes to be operated a sexually oriented business without a valid
license, or operates such business or employs or is employed in such business in violation of the provisions of this
chapter, is subject to a suit for injunction in addition to any civil and criminal violations provided herein and any
other remedy available at law or in equity.

1.20.360 - Violation-License         suspension or revocation-Appeals.
A.   In addition to the grounds for suspension or revocation set forth in Chapter 1.02, every sexually oriented
     business license or sexually oriented business employee license may be revoked or suspended for any violation
     of this chapter.
B.   Decisions to revoke or suspend a sexually oriented business license, or of a sexually oriented business
     employee license, shall be made in accordance with the procedures established in Sections 1.07.020 and
     1.07.030 of this title.
C.   Any appeal of the suspension or revocation of a sexually oriented business license, or of a sexually oriented
     business employee license, shall be heard by the metro council in accordance with the procedures established
     in Sections 1.02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.20.370 - Effect of license suspension and revocation.
A.   If a sexually oriented business license issued pursuant to this chapter is suspended, all operations within the
     licensed establishment shall cease for the period of the suspension, and no other person shall be allowed to
     operate at that location during the suspension period.
B.   When a license issued pursuant to this chapter is revoked, the revocation shall continue for one year from its
     effective date, and the licensee shall not be issued a sexually oriented business or employee license for one
     year from the date of such revocation.
C.   The premises may be re-licensed for a business activity during the one-year revocation, but no other sexually
     oriented business license shall be issued for the premises during the period of revocation.

1.20.380 - Violation-Penalty.
A.   In addition to revocation or suspension of a license as provided in this chapter, each violation of this chapter
     shall, upon citation by the license official, require the sexually oriented business licensee or sexually oriented
     business employee, as applicable, to pay a civil penalty in the amount of five hundred dollars, which shall be in
     addition to any other administrative sanctions or criminal penalties.
B.   In addition to the civil fines provided in this chapter, the violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a
     Class B misdemeanor.
C.   Each day of a violation shall be considered a separate offense.

1.20.390 - Severability.
      If any provision or clause of this chapter or the application thereof to any person or circumstances is held to be
unconstitutional or otherwise invalid by any court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity shall not affect other
sections, provisions, clauses or applications hereof which can be implemented without the invalid provision, clause
or application hereof. To this end, the provisions and clauses of this chapter are declared to be severable.


Chapter 1.21 - TOBACCO SPECIAL TY BUSINESSES
Sections:

1.21.010 - Definitions .
     For the purposes of this chapter,
A.   "Tobacco specialty business" means a commercial retail establishment that demonstrates through signage,
     floor space allocation, or sales revenue that it is substantially engaged in the offer and sale of tobacco products.
     Any one or more of the following factors indicate the operation of a tobacco specialty business:
      I.    The sale of tobacco products accounts for more than thirty-five percent (35%) of the establishment's total
            gross receipts for two (2) successive calendar quarters;
            a.   To facilitate Copperton's implementation of this factor, a licensee operating a retail sales business
                 that sells tobacco products shall send to Copperton's business license official quarterly gross sales
                 infonnation within fifteen (15) business days of the end of each calendar quarter; and
            b.   This quarterly data provision requirement does not apply to a business already licensed as a tobacco
                 specialty business, or to business locations within which an area is licensed by the state of Utah as a
                 pharmacy;
     2.     The name of the business evidences that it holds itself out as a tobacco specialty business by containing
            the word(s) smoke, smoke shop, smoker, cigar, vape, vapor, huka, or other words typically used to
            describe tobacco prodcuts; or
     3.     The allocation of floor and shelf space inside the business shows a focus on tobacco products. Thirty-
            percent (30%) or more is devoted to the offer, display, and/or storage of tobacco products.
B. "Tobacco product" means any substance or product as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 10-8-41.6( 1)(c).

1.21.020 - License required.
      It is unlawful for any person to operate, conduct, carry on or maintain a tobacco specialty business without first
obtaining from the license official a license to operate a tobacco specialty business.

1.21.030 - License-Fees.
     The annual fee for a tobacco specialty business shall be as set forth in Section 1.08.040 of this code.

1.21.040 - Application and issuance restrictions.
     Each individual applying for a tobacco specialty business license shall:
     A.     Identify the location, including the street, building and room number of the place where the applicant
            proposes to operate a tobacco specialty business.
     B.     Submit with the license application an affidavit ensuring that the tobacco specialty business complies
            with the proximity requirements of Utah law as of the date of the application .
     C.     The license official shall review the application to determine compliance with metro zoning ordinances
            and the proximity requirements set forth in Utah Code Annotated § 10-8-41.6(5).
     D.      In accordance with the procedures described in Sections 1.02.010 through 1.02. I40 of this title, the
             license official shall then approve or deny the application .
     E.     The license official shall not approve a business license or tobacco specialty business license to any
            applicant who does not meet the proximity requirements.
     F.     Any appeal of a licensing decision by the license official shall be heard in accordance with the provisions
            of Sections 1.02. 140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

1.21.050 - License-Display           required.
      Every tobacco specialty business licensed under this chapter shall display its tobacco specialty business license
in a conspicuous place on the premises.

1.21.060 - Unlawful conduct and activities.
A.   In addition to the restrictions and limitations contained in this chapter , and as set forth under state law, a
     licensee under this chapter may not:
     l.     Engage in a pattern of unlawful activity as set forth under Utah state law;
     2.     Violate the regulations restricting the sale and distribution of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco to protect
            children and adolescents issued by the United States Food and Drug Administration, 21 C.F.R. Part 1140;
            or
     3.     Engage in any act prohibited by the provisions of the Utah Controlled Substances Act, the Imitation
            Controlled Substances Act, the Utah Controlled Substance Precursor Act, the Clandestine Drug Lab Act,
            or any other provision of law, whether federal , state or local, providing for the prohibition or regulation of
            activities related to the sale or consumption of controlled substances or imitation controlled substances.
B.   The license official shall work with the metro council chair and local law enforcement to enforce the
     provisions of this section.

1.21.070 - Revocation and suspension decisions-Appeals.
A.   In addition to the grounds for suspension or revocation set forth in Chapter 1.07, every tobacco specialty
     business license issued by the license official may be revoked or suspended for any violation of this chapter.
B.   Issues regarding revocation or suspension of a tobacco specialty license shall be heard and decided in
     accordance with the procedures established in Section I .07 .020 through 1.07 .030 of this title.
C.   Appeals of decisions to revoke or suspend a tobacco specialty license shall be heard by the metro council in
     accordance with procedures established in Sections I .02.140 through 1.02.180 of this title.

Chapter 1.22 - MOBILE FOOD BUSINESSES
Sections:


1.22.010 - Purpose and intent.
      It is the purpose and intent of this chapter to provide companies and individuals who engage in the operation of
mobile food businesses with clear and concise regulations to prevent safety, traffic and health hazards, as well as to
preserve the peace, safety and welfare of the community .

1.22.020 - Definitions.
    "Mobile food business" means a self-contained food service operation, located in a vehicle, trailer, or a
movable stand, used to store, prepare, display or serve food intended for individual portion service. The term
"mobile food business" shall not include vending carts or mobile ice cream vendors.
      "Mobile food trailer" means a mobile food business that serves food or beverages from a nonmotorized vehicle
that is normally pulled behind a motorized vehicle. The term "mobile food trailer" shall not include vending carts,
mobile food trucks or mobile ice cream vendors.
      "Mobile food truck" means a mobile food business that serves food or beverages from an enclosed self-
contained motorized vehicle . The term "mobile food truck" shall not include vending carts , mobile food trailers or
mobile ice cream vendors.

(Ord. No. 1796, § II, 5-24-2016)

1.22.030 - Mobile food business allowed.
A.   No person shall operate a mobile food business, without first having obtained a business license from the
     license official in accordance with chapter 1.02 of this title, or its successor.
B.   Mobile businesses are allowed to operate in any zone that allows a restaurant to operate, so long as they
     operate in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
C.   This chapter shall not apply to mobile ice cream vendors, seasonal farm stands and other temporary merchants
     or uses that are specifically authorized by this title or other metro ordinances.

1.22.040 - Application for a business license.
      Application for all mobile food businesses shall be made prior to the commencement             of operation. The
applicant shall submit the following information:
     A.   Name and address of applicant.
     B.   Name and address of the approved commercial supply source and primary licensed food establishment, if
          applicable.
     C.   Verification ofa completed background check on owner/driver(s).
     D.   License plate number.
     E.   A description of the preparation methods and food product offered for sale, including the intended menu,
          display, and distribution containers.
     F.   A description of the vehicle to be used in conducting business, and a description of any method to display
          food or products to be offered for sale.
     G.   The anticipated volume of food to be stored, prepared, and sold.
     H.   A valid copy of all necessary licenses or permits required by state or local health and transportation
          authorities.
     I.   A certificate of insurance produced by an insurance company or association authorized to sell insurance
          in Utah, on standard ACORD forms or forms approved as to form by the District Attorney and metro's
          attorney, evidencing that the applicant has active insurance policies as required herein in full force and
          effect at the time of the application. Applicants shall purchase and maintain commercial auto insurance
          and commercial general liability insurance, or a business owners policy (BOP) that includes auto liability,
          with coverage limits not less than the amounts required by Utah law. Such policy(s) shall include
          coverage of all motor vehicles used in connection with applicant's business. A current certificate of
          insurance shall be kept on file with the license official at all times that applicant is licensed in the metro,
          verifying such continuing coverage and naming the county and metro as an additional insured. The
          certificate shall contain a statement that the license official and metro will be given written notification at
          least thirty (30) days prior to cancellation or material change in the coverage, without reservation of non-
          liability for failure to so notify the license official and metro. Cancellation shall constitute grounds for
          revocation of the license issued hereunder unless another insurance policy complying herewith is
          provided and is in effect at the time of cancellation /termination.
     J.   A signed statement that the licensee shall hold the county and metro and their officers and employees
          harmless from any and all liability and shall indemnify the county and metro and their officers and
          employees for any claims for damage to property or injury to persons arising from any activity carried on
          under the business license or health or transportation permit.
     K.   The written consent of the property or business owner to operate at the proposed location.

1.22.050 - Separate applications.
     Separate business license applications are required for each mobile food business, including each separate
mobile food business vehicle operating under a shared business name.

1.22.060 - Fees; annual operation.
      No license shall be issued or renewed unless the holder thereof has paid an annual business regulatory fee as
set forth in Section 1.08.040 of this title, or its successor section, for each mobile food business.
1.22.070 - Business activity to be temporary.
      All business activity related to mobile food businesses shall be of a temporary nature, the duration of which
shall not extend for more than twelve hours within a twenty-four-hour period at any one premises or location.

1.22.080 - Design and operation guidelines.
     Mobile food businesses shall comply with the following design requirements:
     A.   Mobile food businesses shall be designed to meet all applicable Salt Lake County Health Department
          requirements relating to the handling and distribution of food.
     B.   The mobile food business shall not have a drive-through.
     C.   Mobile food businesses shall be kept in good operating condition; no peeling paint or rust shall be visible.
     D.   No mobile food business shall operate in the public right-of-way except by special event permit issued by
          the license official under Section 14.56.060 of the metro code, as set forth in Section 1.22.120.
     E.   No mobile food business shall operate within two hundred feet of a door to a restaurant, other mobile
          food business, or license official-authorized special event selling food, except:
           I.   The above requirement may be waived if the application is submitted with the written consent of the
                proprietor of such restaurant or vendor. The consent shall be on forms deemed appropriate by the
                license official. Such waiver shall not exempt the applicant from compliance with the other location
                and distance restrictions of this chapter; or,
          2.    Mobile food businesses that are operating under an approved "mobile food court" or an approved
                special event permit are exempt from the spacing requirement.
     F.   All grounds utilized by a mobile food business shall at all times be maintained in a clean and attractive
          condition.
     G.   Trash and recycling containers shall be provided for use of the business patrons.
     H.   Mobile food businesses are encouraged to source local products when available .
     I.   Any enclosures or canopy extensions must be integrated into the design of the mobile food business
          vehicle and must not project onto the public sidewalk or any other part of the public right-of-way not
          authorized by the county transportation engineering manager.
1.22.090 - Signs.
     No signs shall be used to advertise the conduct of the mobile business at the premises other than that which is
physically attached to the vehicle.
1.22.100 - Professional and personal services prohibited.
     The performance of professional or personal services shall not be sold from a mobile food truck.
1.22.110 - Compliance responsibility.
     The licensee shall not be relieved of any responsibility for compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
whether the licensee pays salary, wages or any other form of compensation to drivers.

1.22.120 - Special events.
      The restrictions of this chapter notwithstanding, nothing herein shall prohibit the license official from
authorizing mobile food businesses other than those licensed under this chapter to conduct vending operations
within the public right-of-way, or such other areas as the license official may deem appropriate, during special
events ("special event vendors"). The special event vendors shall not be governed by this chapter, but shall be
governed by such other ordinance, metro policy, or executive order as may be applicable. However, as long as the
public right-of-way remains open to the general public, such authorization of special event vendors shall not prohibit
a licensee under this chapter from operating within his/her designated permit operating location or a mutually
acceptable adjacent alternative location during such special event, unless otherwise provided under the metro's
ordinances. If the county is closing a public right-of-way to general access, either partially or fully, in order to
accommodate a special event, the mobile food business may not access that right-of-way unless specifically
authorized by the county.
