RESOLUTION NO. R2026-05 March 18, 2026

A RESOLUTION OF THE TOWN OF COPPERTON COUNCIL ADOPTING A

PERSONNEL POLICY
RECITALS

WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-717(1)(c) authorizes the Town of Copperton
Council (the “Council’”’) to adopt personnel policies and guidelines by resolution;

WHEREAS, the Council desires to adopt a personnel policy pursuant to Utah Code Ann.
§ 10-3-717(1)(c) and consistent with Part 11 of Title 10 of the Utah Code; and

WHEREAS, the Council has determined that the personnel policy attached to this
Resolution will serve the best interests of the Town of Copperton and the public.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Council that the personnel
policy attached to this Resolution, is hereby approved effective immediately.

APPROVED and ADOPTED this 18" day of March, 2026

TOWN OF COPPERTON
By:
Sean to r

ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM
Diana Baun, 1a F- <2 ATTORNEY
Voting:

Mayor Clayton voting Ce,

Council Member Stitzer voting (j A z

Council Member Bailey voting ABCENT

Council Member Pratt voting Haye

Council Member McCalmon voting uy

|

TOWN OF COPPERTON
PERSONNEL POLICY
Adopted , 2026
ARTICLE I - GENERAL

Section 1 — Name: This will be known as the Town of Copperton Personnel Policy (the
“Policy”.

Section 2 — Purpose and Implementation: The Policy has been adopted for the purpose of
guiding the Town’s efforts for quality performance, equity in employment, and career
development of its employees. This Policy will he applied in conformance with all applicable
federal and state laws and regulations, including but not limited to Title 10, Chapter 3, Part 11 of
the Utah Code. This Policy does not create any contractual rights for employees.

Section 3 — Definitions: The following definitions will apply for the purposes of this Policy:

1. “Council” means the Town of Copperton Council.

2. “Council Member” means a one of the members of the Council

3. “Contractor” or “Independent Contractor” means, consistent with Utah Code Ann. §

34A-2-103(2)(b)(i) or applicable successor statute, any person engaged in the performance of
any work for the Town who, while so engaged, is:
a. Engaged only in the performance of a definite job or piece of work on behalf of the
Town;
b. Independent of the Town in all that pertains to the execution of their job or piece
of work;
c. Not subject to the routine rule or control of the Town; or
d. Subordinate to the Town only in effecting a result according to Town’s design.

4. “Employee(s)” or “Staff’ means a person or persons employed for wages or salary by

the Town.

5. “Ethics Act” means the Utah Public Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act, Utah Code

Ann.§§ 67-16-1 et seg., or applicable successor statute.
6. “Family and Medical Leave” means unpaid, job-protected leave for specified family
and medical reasons under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, as amended, 29 USC
§ 2601 et seq.
2

7. “FLSA” means the Fair Labor Standards Act, 19 U.S.C. §§ 201 to 219.

8. “Full-time Employee” means an employee hired to work more than 30 hours per week
on a regular basis in an established job.

9. “GAAP” means Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.

10. “Mayor” means the Mayor of the Town of Copperton.

11. “Part-time Employee” means employment in an established job requiring not more than
30 hours per week.

12. “Policy” means this Personnel Policy.

13. “Public Officer” means a member of the Council consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 76-
1-601(13) or applicable successor statute.

14. “Public Property” means, consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 76-8-101(5)(a) or
applicable successor statute, real or personal property that is owned, held, or managed by the
Town, including real or personal property that is transferred by the Town to an independent
contractor which remains public property while in the possession of an independent contractor
of the Town for the purpose of providing a program or service for, or on behalf of the Town.

15. “Public Servant” means, consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 76-1-101.5 or applicable
successor statute, the following, who become public servants upon their election, appointment,
contracting, or other selection, regardless of whether the person has begun to officially occupy
the position of a public servant:

a. A public officer;

b. An appointed official, employee, consultant, or independent contractor of the
Town; or

c. A person hired or paid by the Town to perform a government function.

16. “Temporary Employee” means employment in a job established for a specific period
of time or for the duration of a specific project or group of assignments. A temporary employee
may work full-time or part-time with the understanding that the employment will be terminated
at the conclusion of a specific time or at the completion of a specific project.

17. “Town” means Town of Copperton.

Section 4 — Discrimination Prohibited: One of the reasons for the Policy is to ensure that
no employee or applicant for employment will be discriminated against in any personnel action by
reason of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation, age or disability and to
safeguard their privacy, statutory rights, and constitutional rights as citizens.

3

Section 5 — Fair Employment Practices: It is the intent and purpose of the Council to
assure equality and quality in all phases of the employment process. In so doing, the Council
intends to comply with all applicable State and Federal requirements pertaining to fair
employment practices. ‘

Section 6 — Professionalism: All employees are expected to accept and adhere to high
standards of personal and professional conduct. This not only involves sincere respect for the
rights and feelings of others but also demands that employees refrain from behavior that might
be harmful to themselves, their co-workers and/or the Town, or negatively impact those persons
and organizations served by the Town or the perception of the Town by the public at large. An
employee whose performance, work habits, overall attitude or demeanor becomes unsatisfactory
or who fails to perform assigned duties and responsibilities at prescribed levels may be subject to
disciplinary action, including termination.

Section 7 — Council Review: The Council will periodically review the personnel policies
to ensure that they conform to the requirements of state and federal law.

ARTICLE I - HIRING & TERMINATION

Section 1 — Job Description: Before an applicant may be hired or an existing employee may
be promoted to a new or revised position, a job description must be prepared and the position must
be evaluated, approved by the Council, and a salary or pay level determined in accordance with
the applicant’s skills and qualifications. A job description is a description of the general duties,
responsibilities, skills, degrees required, and other qualifications necessary to adequately perform
a particular job.

Section 2 — At Will: Except as otherwise required by Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1105 or
another applicable provision of law, all Town employees, both full-time and part-time, will be “at
will;” and will acknowledge in writing that: (1) the employee’s employment status is either
appointed or at-will, as the case may be; and (2) the employee has voluntarily waived the
procedures required in Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1106. An At-Will Employment Acknowledgement
and Waiver is included at the end of this policy. The Town will not take any action to promise or
otherwise imply guaranteed employment to any employee on any other basis.

Section 3 — Job Advertising: All announcements and employment advertisements will
comply with equal employment opportunity requirements. All such notices must specify the person
for whom applications are to be obtained, the person to whom completed applications are to be
returned, and the deadline for filing an application. Such notices should contain a statement
indicating that the Town is an equal opportunity employer. Generally, the Town may post job
announcements with the Department of Workforce Services and/or may be advertised in a
newspaper published and/or distributed in Utah or on a related industry website or other job search
website.

Section 4 —- Employment Agencies and Search Consultants: The Town may use private
employment agencies and search consultants if the Council has reason to believe that a qualified
candidate will not be attracted as a result of the procedures of this Chapter, or if the Council has

4

reason to believe that the engagement of such agencies or consultants will result in additional
qualified candidates applying for the position.

Section 5 — Hiring: All job applicants will complete such application forms and evaluations
as required by the Council. In conducting any ability tests the Council may require, reasonable
accommodations will be made for disabled applicants upon request.

Section 6 — Interviews: The Council will select an interview pool from those applicants
who have passed the preliminary job application form screening and any ability tests that have
been administered. During the interview, each applicant will be asked only questions pertaining to
the applicant’s professional background, experience, training, education, and qualifications for the
job. Applicants may not be asked about their marital or family status or pregnancy, religion, age,
gender or sex, race, ethnicity or color, or disability. If references are contacted, to the extent
practical, an equal number of references will be contacted for each applicant giving permission for
the contact.

Section 7 — Notification Procedures: Before a person is offered a position, the offer must
be evaluated and approved by the Council and any applicable direct-line supervisor. The job offer
must include the basic conditions of employment. If the offer is extended verbally, a follow-up
written offer must be delivered to the applicant within a reasonable time after the verbal offer has
been extended. The written offer must be signed by the applicant before the applicant may assume
duties as a Town employee. If the position in question qualifies as an “at will’ position, the written
job offer must clearly state the job description, salary, conditions of employment, that the position
is “at will,” and that the offer is not final until the candidate signs and returns the written offer
letter. The offer letter should also include the job title; the name of the supervisor; if applicable; a
statement that the job title, job description, and identification of the supervisor may change over
time; the starting date; disclosure of the probationary period during which the employee may be
terminated for no cause and without explanation; and any contingencies or conditions to the job
offer (such as passing a drug test). Once a written offer has been signed by the candidate, the offer
is final. The original of the final offer is to be maintained by the Town as part of its personnel files,
with a copy to be given to the new employee.

Section 8 — Notification of Closing: All recruiting sources used in the recruiting process
should be notified of the closing of the job opening as soon as is reasonably practicable.

Section 9 — Orientation: Each newly hired employee will complete necessary paperwork
and receive orientation as a new employee of the Town on the first day of work or as reasonably
practicable thereafter.

Section 10 — Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986: In accordance with the
Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, all new employees must provide proof of identity
and employment status by completing an employment eligibility verification form as required by
the U.S. Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service. The newly hired employee
must declare, under penalty of perjury, that he/she is a United States citizen, a lawful permanent
resident alien, or an alien otherwise authorized for employment in the United States.

5

Section 11 — Termination. This policy establishes standards and procedures for the
termination of at-will employees of the Town and is intended to promote fairness, consistency,
documentation, and legal compliance while preserving the at-will nature of employment; it applies
to all employees designated as at-will and does not apply to employees covered by an employment
contract, or who may not be designated as at-will by statute. All covered employees are employed
at will, meaning employment may be terminated at any time by either the employee or the Town,
with or without notice and with or without cause, and nothing in this policy creates a contract or
alters at-will status; although cause is not required, termination decisions may be based on factors
including but not limited to unsatisfactory performance, misconduct, policy violations,
insubordination, dishonesty, harassment, safety violations, misuse of public resources, failure to
maintain required credentials, organizational restructuring, position elimination, or for reasons
determined to be in the best interest of the Town. Decisions to terminate an employee shall be
made by the Council. In the event of termination, the Town will provide written notice of
termination stating the effective date, final pay, and return-of-property requirements, and other
information relating to the termination. The omission of any such information shall not render the
termination invalid. At will termination decisions are not subject to internal grievance or appeal
unless required by statute. No termination decision may be based on unlawful discrimination,
retaliation, protected speech, lawful whistleblowing, protected leave, or any other protected
classification or activity under applicable law. This policy may be modified at any time by the
Town and does not create any guarantee of continued employment or procedural rights beyond
those required by law.

ARTICLE III - DISCIPLINARY ACTION

Section 1 — General: All disciplinary actions except termination are intended to be
corrective and constructive rather than punitive and should be carried out with the intention of
obtaining compliance with policies, orders, procedures, standards of conduct, expected
performance standards and/or improve attitude.

Section 2 — Disciplinary Actions: There are six types of disciplinary actions that may be
used by the Town: (1) reprimand; (2) suspension; (3) suspension-without pay; (4) restitution for
damage to the Town property or to other property; (5) demotion; and (6) termination. All
disciplinary decisions must be documented in writing and given to the employee, with the Town
retaining a copy for its records. Unless the Council designates otherwise, it must approve all
disciplinary actions. No employee will be disciplined because of political affiliation, age, race,
gender, color, disability, national origin, religious beliefs, or other protected class established by
state of federal law. Notwithstanding these provisions, all Town employees, both full-time and
part-time, will be at-will employees and may be terminated at-will by the Council, at any time,
without cause or prior notice, for any reason or for no reason at all.

Section 3 — Appeals of Disciplinary Actions: Appeals of the disciplinary hearing decision,
may be made to the Mayor for review by the Council within fifteen (15) working days after the
employee received a copy of the disciplinary decision. The Council will review the appeal at its
next regularly scheduled meeting, or at a special meeting if the next regularly scheduled meeting

6

will take place thirty (30) calendar days after the date the appeal was received. By majority vote,
the Council may reverse, uphold or modify the disciplinary decision. The Council’s decision
regarding the appeal will be in writing and given to the employee within thirty (30) working days
from the date the appeal was filed with the Mayor.

Section 4 — Limitations: Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1106, an employee subject to
Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1105, may not be discharged, suspended without pay, or involuntarily
transferred to a position with less remuneration because of the employee’s politics or religious
belief: or incident to, or through changes, either in the elective officers, governing body, or head
of Town departments. Appeals made in response to alleged violations of this Section will be made
in accordance with Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1106.

ARTICLE IV — GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

Section 1 — Complaints: Any employee alleging a grievance is encouraged to resolve the
problem through an informal discussion with their immediate supervisor or the Council. If the
results of such a discussion are not satisfactory, the employee will file a formal written grievance
with the Council. The Council will authorize an investigation of such complaints and, based upon
the findings, may present charges against any person derelict, or discriminatory in considering the
grievance. A grievance must be filed in writing and clearly state the Town policy, state law and\or
federal law alleged to have been violated. Failure to include or identify a violation shall result in
the waiver of that violation or ground on appeal. All grievances must be filed within thirty (30)
calendar days following the alleged violation of any Town policy, law, state law, or federal law.

Section 2 — Complaint Review: The Mayor will investigate the complaint. The Mayor will
issue a written report to the employee and the Council setting forth findings and recommendations
for the resolution of the grievance conclusion of the investigation. The employee may accept the
recommendations of the Mayor, or file a written appeal to the Council within five (5) working
days of receiving the Mayor’s recommendation. After hearing the grievance appeal, the Council
will provide the employee with a written decision. The Council’s decision will be final.
ARTICLE V — EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT

Section 1 — Employee Evaluation: Personnel evaluation is closely related to employee
development, promotion, and compensation. The Council may designate a Council Member or
supervising employee to hold regular goal-setting interviews with subordinates and regular follow-
up meetings to motivate, train, and develop employees.

Section 2 - Employee Development and Training: When the Council, or a supervisor with
the approval of the Council, requires that an employee attend a formal training program, the Town
will pay all reasonable and pre-authorized costs associated with the training. Employees may also
ask the Council for approval to attend trainings related to their position. The Council may, in its
sole discretion, provide assistance to an employee who undertakes a course of study which leads
to a job-related degree. In some cases, irregular work schedules may be arranged as a means of
accommodating class schedules.

7

ARTICLE VI —- SEXUAL HARASSMENT
Section 1 — Policy Statement and Prohibition. The Town is committed to providing all
employees, elected officials, applicants, volunteers, contractors, and members of the public with a
work environment free from sexual harassment and other forms of unlawful discrimination. The
Town is also committed to preventing sexual harassment between elected officials and employees
and between Town representatives and members of the public served by the Town. Sexual
harassment in any form is unacceptable and prohibited. Any employee or official who engages in
sexual harassment is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, censure, or
other action as may be allowed by law. Sexual harassment constitutes unlawful discrimination
under federal, state, and local law.
Section 2 — Definition of Sexual Harassment. For purposes of this policy, sexual harassment
includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, visual, or
physical conduct of a sexual nature when, for example:
1. Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of
an individual’s employment or participation in Town services;
2. Submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as the basis for employment or
service-related decisions affecting an individual; or
3. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s
work performance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.
Sexual harassment may occur between individuals of the same or different gender and may be
physical, verbal, visual, or psychological in nature. A series of incidents may constitute sexual
harassment even if one incident alone would not. Sexual harassment is prohibited whether
committed by coworkers, supervisors, managers, elected officials, vendors, contractors,
consultants, clients, or members of the public. This policy applies to conduct occurring in the
workplace and in any work-related setting, including meetings, travel, training, conferences, and
work-related social events, and may apply to conduct outside working hours or off Town premises
when it affects the work environment or Town operations.
Section 3 — Examples of Prohibited Conduct: Sexual harassment may include a wide range of
conduct, including but not limited to:
¢ Physical assaults of a sexual nature, including rape, sexual battery, molestation, attempts
to commit such acts, or intentional sexual touching, pinching, patting, grabbing, brushing
against another’s body, or poking.
e Unwanted sexual advances, propositions, or comments, including sexual jokes, gestures,
noises, remarks, or comments about a person’s sexuality or sexual experience.
e Preferential treatment or promises of benefits in exchange for sexual conduct, or threats
or adverse treatment for refusing sexual conduct.
e Intentionally making an employee’s job more difficult because of the employee’s sex or
in response to rejection of sexual advances.
8

e Displaying or distributing sexually suggestive, sexually demeaning, or pornographic
materials in the workplace, including pictures, posters, calendars, graffiti, objects, or
electronic content.

e Reading, displaying, or publicizing sexually suggestive or pornographic materials in the
work environment.

e Describing or conveying stories or incidences that are sexually suggestive or
pornographic.

These examples are illustrative and not exhaustive.
Section 4 — Scope and Application. This policy applies to all applicants, employees, elected
officials, appointed officials, volunteers, interns, and contractors. It applies to conduct involving
Town personnel and also to harassment by or toward third parties such as vendors, consultants,
customers, and members of the public. Employees are prohibited from engaging in sexual
harassment regardless of whether the conduct occurs on Town premises or during working hours.
The Town may investigate and impose discipline for prohibited conduct occurring off duty or off
premises when it impacts the workplace or Town business. This policy may not be used as a basis
for excluding individuals from business or work-related activities on the basis of sex or any other
protected characteristic.
Section 5 — Documentation and Immediate Response. Any employee or member of the public who
believes they are being subjected to sexual harassment should document the conduct, including
dates, times, locations, persons involved, specific behaviors, and names of witnesses. When
reasonably possible and safe, the individual should make their disapproval known to the alleged
harasser and state that the conduct is unwelcome. Employees must immediately report any
circumstance that they believe may result in physical harm to a Council Member or Mayor.
Individuals experiencing threats or criminal conduct outside the workplace should also contact
appropriate law enforcement.
Section 6 — Reporting and Grievance Procedure. Employees who believe they have been subjected
to or observed sexual harassment or inappropriate sexual conduct must promptly report the conduct
to a supervisor, the Mayor, or Council Member. If the employee is uncomfortable reporting to their
direct supervisor, the report should be made to another supervisor, Council Member, or the Mayor.
Members of the public may report suspected harassment by Town employees or officials to the
Mayor or a Council Member.
Employees are encouraged to submit complaints in writing, but a complaint may be made verbally
or in writing. Supervisors who receive a complaint or otherwise become aware of possible sexual
harassment must promptly forward the information to a Council Member, Mayor, or designated
official. The Town cannot correct conduct it does not know about; therefore, prompt reporting is
required.
Section 7 — Investigation. Upon receiving a report or complaint of sexual harassment, the Town
shall promptly and impartially investigate the report. The Mayor or Town Council may retain an
independent investigator. The investigation may include interviews of the complainant, the
accused, and witnesses, and review of documents, communications, and other evidence. The Town
will comply with applicable federal and state legal requirements in conducting investigations. The
9

Town will make reasonable efforts to maintain confidentiality to the extent possible, but
confidentiality cannot be guaranteed. The Town may, but is not required to, inform the
complainant of the outcome and any corrective action taken.
Section 8 — Cooperation and Non-Retaliation. All employees are required to cooperate fully and
truthfully in any investigation. Retaliation against any person who reports sexual harassment in
good faith, files a complaint, or participates in an investigation is strictly prohibited. Any employee
who engages in retaliation is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Section 9 — Disciplinary and Corrective Action. If an investigation substantiates a violation of this
policy, the Town will take prompt and appropriate corrective and disciplinary action. Discipline
will be based on the severity and frequency of the conduct and applicable law and personnel
policies, and may include counseling, training, written reprimand, censure, probation, suspension,
demotion, reassignment, removal of supervisory duties, or other corrective measures, up to and
including termination of employment or removal from appointed position as permitted by law. The
Town is not required to use progressive discipline when more serious discipline is warranted.
Section 10 — Anti-Retaliation and Reporting of Discrimination, Harassment, and Retaliation

The Town encourages the reporting of all perceived incidents of discrimination,
harassment, or retaliation, regardless of when, where, or in what forum the conduct occurs. The
Town will promptly and thoroughly investigate such reports. The Town Strictly prohibits
retaliation against any employee, applicant, elected official, volunteer, contractor, or member of
the public who, in good faith, reports discrimination or harassment, files a complaint, or
participates honestly and openly in an investigation or proceeding related to such a report.
Retaliation for good-faith reporting or participation in an investigation is a serious violation of
Town policy and will result in disciplinary action as permitted by law and Town personnel policies,
up to and including termination of employment or removal from appointed position. Acts of
retaliation must be reported immediately and will be promptly investigated and addressed.
It is the responsibility of the Town and each employee and elected official to help maintain an
environment free of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. All employees are expected to
respect the rights of coworkers and the public. Any employee who experiences, observes, or
becomes aware of hostile, harassing, discriminatory, or retaliatory conduct based on any
characteristic protected by federal, state, or local law must promptly report the matter, orally or in
writing, to a supervisor, the Mayor, a Council Member, or a designated human resources
representative. Reports may involve conduct by Town employees, elected officials, or third parties
such as vendors, contractors, consultants, or members of the public.
Prompt reporting is required so that rapid and constructive action can be taken before
circumstances worsen or working relationships are irreparably harmed. While no fixed reporting
deadline is imposed, early reporting and intervention are strongly encouraged and are the most
effective means of resolving concerns.
Upon receipt of a complaint of retaliation, the Town will undertake a prompt and impartial
investigation. The investigation may include interviews with the parties involved and with

10

individuals who may have observed the conduct or possess relevant knowledge, as well as review
of documents and other evidence. The Town will make reasonable efforts to maintain
confidentiality to the extent possible. Greater confidentiality measures may be used when
necessary to protect witnesses, preserve evidence, prevent fabrication of testimony, or avoid
concealment of wrongdoing.

Employees who fail to cooperate in an investigation, who knowingly provide false information, or
who improperly disclose confidential investigation information in a manner that compromises the
integrity of the investigation may be subject to discipline, up to and including termination.

If an investigation establishes that a violation of this policy has occurred, the Town will take
appropriate remedial and disciplinary action, which may include training, counseling, written
warning, reprimand, probation, reassignment, suspension, censure, demotion, or termination, as
permitted by law and Town policy. False and malicious complaints made in bad faith may also
result in disciplinary action; however, complaints made in good faith will not result in discipline
even if they are not substantiated.

Employees are encouraged, when safe and reasonable, to inform an offending individual that the
retaliatory conduct is unwelcome and must stop. However, an individual is not required to confront
the alleged offender before making a report. This reporting process is intended to supplement—
not replace or limit—any rights or remedies available under state or federal law.

The Town will strive to ensure that retaliation complaints are handled as confidentially as
practicable, investigations are conducted by qualified and impartial personnel, appropriate
corrective options are considered, responsive action is taken, and matters are concluded in a timely
manner.

ARTICLE VII —- SUBSTANCE ABUSE

Section 1 — Drug Free Workplace: The Town prohibits drug and alcohol use or impairment
in the workplace to protect the public and the Town’s employees. The Council may, in its
discretion, test current employees and prospective employees for the presence of drugs or alcohol
as a condition of hire or continued employment if it has a reasonable basis to require such testing.
All testing shall conform to the requirements of Utah Code Ann. Section 34-38-1 et seg. Any
employee or prospective employee failing or refusing to take the test will not be eligible for
employment, or if employed, may be subject to termination. The Town will consider all confirmed
positive drug and alcohol test results with a medically sufficient explanation to be the equivalent
of a negative drug test result.

Section 2 — Town Action: Upon receipt of a verified or confirmed positive drug or alcohol
test result, which indicates a violation of this policy, or upon the refusal of any employee or
prospective employee to provide a sample, the Council may use that test result or refusal as the
basis for all disciplinary or rehabilitative actions authorized herein, depending upon the
circumstances.

11

Section 3 — Confidentiality: All information, interviews, reports, statements, memoranda,
or test results received by the Town, through this drug and alcohol testing program, are confidential
communications and are not to be used or received as evidence, obtained in discovery or disclosed
in any public or private proceeding, except to those having a demonstrated need to know, or ina
proceeding related to an action taken by the Town, or in defense of any action brought against the
Town, or as required by law. All testing results will be the property of the Town, but test results
may be released to the person who has been tested upon written request.

Section 4 — Acknowledgment: The Town will require each employee to read this policy
and sign a form stating that they have received and read a copy of this policy and agree to abide
by its terms as a condition of continued employment. The signed acknowledgment will be kept in
each employee’s personnel file.

ARTICLE VII — WORKERS COMPENSATION INSURANCE

Section 1 — General: Work-related accidents are covered by the workers compensation
insurance. Premiums for this coverage are paid by the Town. Employees are to report any work-
related accidents to the Council, or applicable supervisor designated by the Council, as soon as
possible and submit a written initial injury report to the Council or supervisor as soon as possible.

Section 2 — Payments: If a claim is approved by the Utah Labor Commission, the
employee’s medical costs and compensation will be paid by the worker’s compensation insurance
in accordance with the State policy. Because the Town pays the total cost of worker’s
compensation insurance, an employee cannot draw sick leave pay while eligible for worker’s
compensation insurance payments.

Section 3 — Accounting for Sick and Annual Leave: The period of time an injured employee
is off work and is waiting to qualify for worker’s compensation insurance payments, will be
charged to sick leave or vacation leave as selected by the employee. However, during the period
an employee is eligible and receiving compensation from worker’s compensation insurance, no
sick leave or annual leave will be paid by the Town.

ARTICLE IX —- JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND COMPENSATION

Section 1 ~Compensation: The Council will conduct periodic market surveys to determine
the salary range for particular job classifications and the salary, within the approved range, for
particular employees based on their experience, qualifications, education, and other qualifying
factors the Council deems relevant.

Section 2 — Performance Reviews: The Council will designate a Council Member or a
supervisor to conduct periodic performance reviews to ensure quality performance, provide
feedback concerning employee performance, set work performance, and determine eligibility for
merit raises. The Council may, in its discretion, require performance reviews more than once
annually.

12

Section 3 — Merit Increases: The Council may, in its discretion, award merit increases in
an employee’s compensation based on increased proficiency, qualifications, changes in an
employee’s position or job description, or other circumstances that it deems to warrant an increase.
Merit increases are not automatic but are subject to the results of an evaluation of the employee’s
performance and the availability of sufficient budgeted funds.

Section 4 — Cost of Living Increases: The Council may, in its discretion, award cost-of-
living increases to its employees, provided that all employees must receive the same cost of living
increase and any such increases must be computed by the consumer price index published by the
United States Bureau of Labor Statistics.

Section 5 — Pay Periods: Unless an exception is granted by the Department of Labor, as
required by the FLSA, wages are to be calculated on a weekly basis and are to be paid at least
twice monthly.

Section 6 — Overtime: Any non-salaried employee who is required to work more than 40
hours during any work week will be paid for all hours in excess of 40 at the rate of one and one-
halftimes the regular rate at which the employee is employed or, at the Council’s election, will
receive compensatory time off at the rate of one and one-half hours for each hour of employment
for which overtime compensation would otherwise be required by the FLSA or any other
applicable law.

Section 7 — Health Insurance and Retirement: The Council may elect, in its discretion, to
provide health insurance and retirement benefits to its employees.

Section 8 — Payroll Deductions for Political Purposes Prohibited: The Town will not deduct
from the wages of its employees any amounts paid to:

1. A candidate as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-101;

2. A personal campaign committee as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-101;

3. A political action committee as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-101;

4. A political issues committee as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-101;

5. A registered political party as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-101;

6. A political fund as defined in Utah Code Ann. § 20A-11-1402; or

7. Any entity established by a labor organization to solicit, collect, or distribute money

primarily for political purposes as defined in Chapter 32 of Title 34 of the Utah Code.
13

ARTICLE X - LEAVE
Section 1 — Annual Leave: The following schedule will be used to earn vacation leave for
full-time employees:
Length of Service Hours Earned
0-4 yrs 3.0 hours per pay period
4 plus - 9 yrs 5.0 hours per pay period
9 plus - 14 yrs 7.0 hours per pay period
14 plus yrs 9.0 hours per pay period
Part-time will receive 50% of these amounts.

Section 2 — Use of Annual Leave: An employee may use any or all accrued annual leave
at any time subject to the approval of the Mayor or their supervisor, whichever is applicable.
Vacations will be scheduled well in advance so as to meet the operating requirements of the Town,
and in so far as possible, the preference of the employees. It will be the responsibility of the
Council, or a designated employee, to maintain records of vacation leave used by each employee.
Such records will be turned into the Council at the end of each quarter, or immediately upon the
employee’s separation, to be placed in the employee’s official personnel records.

Section 3 — Sick Leave: Sick leave will be accrued at the rate of 4.0 hours per pay period
for all full-time employees and 2.0 hours for part-time employees. Sick leave may be used as it is
accrued. Sick leave is to be used in case of personal illness or injury to the employee or immediate
family with the exception that three of the 12 days accrued annually may be used for personal
business during the year of accrual. Personal leave must be noted on the employee’s time record
as personal leave. Personal leave must be approved in advance and may be taken in increments of
one hour. If personal business days are not used in the year accrued, they automatically revert to
normal sick leave effective January 1. An employee’s supervisor is authorized to send an employee
home and require the employee to use sick leave when the employee comes to work sick and is
unable to perform his job in a safe, productive and effective manner because of sickness.

Section 4 — Family and Medical Leave: Employees who have worked for the Town for
1,250 hours during the previous 12 consecutive months and have been employed for at least 1 year
are eligible for up to 12 work weeks of unpaid Family and Medical Leave during any 12-month
period as determined by the Town. The Mayor or designee, may approve, based on individual
circumstances, leave for employees who do not meet the “hours” or “months” eligibility
requirement. Eligible employees are entitled to Family and Medical Leave in the following
situations:

1. The employee has a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to

perform the employee’s job.

2. The birth of an employee’s child, or placement of a child for adoption or foster care.

14

3. Caring for the employee’s spouse, son or daughter, or parent, who has a serious health
condition.

Eligible employees are entitled to take 12 work weeks of unpaid Family and Medical Leave for
these reasons in any 12-month period, which 12-month period will be determined by the Town.
These benefits are renewable each year, but cannot be accumulated from year to year.
Before Family and Medical Leave is granted to an employee, the Town will require medical
certification to support a request for leave because of serious health condition, and may require
second and third opinions (at the employer’s expense). A fitness for duty report to return to work
will be required of all employees returning from Family and Medical Leave. The employee
ordinarily must provide thirty (30) days advance notice when the leave is “foreseeable.”
The maximum 12 work weeks of Family and Medical Leave may be taken continuously or
intermittently, if granted by the Mayor. The Town requires that any available paid leave (sick
leave, comp time, vacation, personal leave or other paid leave) be used by the employee as part of
the 12 work weeks as provided in the “Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993.”
Employees taking Family and Medical Leave will receive health benefits under the same terms
and conditions as when they were on the job. Other benefit premiums, such as life insurance, long
term disability insurance and short term disability insurance must be paid by the employee.
Employees are guaranteed the right to return from Family and Medical Leave to their previous or
an equivalent position with no loss of benefits at the end of the leave. If there are layoffs or
reductions in force while the employee is on Family and Medical Leave, and they would have lost
their job had they remained, the employee loses their rights to reinstatement.

Section 5 — Leave of Absence: Leave of absence without pay or benefits up to 120 days
may be granted by the Council. Leave of absence will not be regarded as an acquired right by an
employee. Requests for a leave of absence will be made in writing and addressed to the Council.
After the Council has made a decision, it will respond to the employee in writing stating the reasons
for said decision. Benefits will not accrue while on leave of absence.

Section 6 — Paid Holidays: The following days have been designated by the Town as paid
holidays:

1. New Year’s Day

2. Martin Luther King Day

3. Presidents’ Day

4. Memorial Day

5. Fourth of July (Independence Day)

6. Pioneer Day

7. Labor Day

8. Veterans’ Day

9. Thanksgiving Day

10. Christmas Day

15

Section 7 — Bereavement Leave. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Section 10-3-1103,
employees may take up to 3 workdays of paid bereavement leave.
ARTICLE XI —- ETHICS

Section 1 — Application of the Utah Public Officers’ and Employee’s Ethics Act: The
requirements of the Ethics Act are applicable to Town employees and elected officials. The
definitions included in the Act are incorporated by reference.

Section 2 — Gratuities: Acceptance of gratuities, whether in the form of a gift,
compensation or a loan, may cloud the ethical judgment of an employee or elected official and
violate the Ethics Act. Town employees and elected officials will not seek or accept gratuities
except under circumstances allowed by the Ethics Act such as proper political campaign
contributions, bona fide loans made in the ordinary course of business, public awards or an
occasional non-pecuniary gift having a value of $50.00 or less.

Section 3 — Conflicts of Interest: No employee or elected official of the Town may invest
in any business entity which will create a substantial conflict between the private interests and
public duties of the employee, contractor, or elected official.

Section 4 — Penalties: Any employee or elected official of the Town who knowingly or
intentionally violates the Ethics Act may be dismissed from employment or removed from office
and may also face criminal penalties as provided in Utah Code Ann. § 67-16-12. In addition, the
Town may rescind or void a contract entered into in violation of the Act, including contracts and
subcontracts with independent contractors without returning any part of the consideration the
Town has received, as provided in Utah Code Ann.§ 67-16-14.

ARTICLE XII - GLOBAL GOVERNANCE-MANAGEMENT CONNECTION AND
UNITY OF CONTROL

Decisions or instructions of individual Council Members, officers or committees are not binding
on the Town staff except when the Council has specifically authorized such exercise of authority
by individuals or committees.

ARTICLE XIII - COUNCIL OVERSIGHT

The Council manages the operation of the Town. All authority over and accountability of
employees and contractors are considered to be the responsibility of the Council.

ARTICLE XIV — TREATMENT OF CONSTITUENTS/OTHERS

Section 1 — General: With respect to interactions with constituents, members of the public,
and others, Council Members, employees, and contractors will not cause or allow conditions,
procedures, actions or decisions which are unlawful, unethical, unsafe, disrespectful, disruptive,

16

undignified, imprudent, or in violation of Council policy. Accordingly, Council Members,
employees, and contractors will not:

1. Fail to develop and maintain positive relationships with constituents, public agencies
and officials, contractors, service providers, insurers, consultants and others to affect the
exchange of information, resources, programs and ideas to ensure the best interests of the
public.

2. Fail to recommend policies and procedures to the Council that ensure compliance with
all federal and state regulations and local laws.

3. Fail to provide for effective handling of complaints, including but not limited to
prohibiting or making it difficult for a constituent to present a complaint to the Council if
resolution has not been reached at the employee level.

4, Fail to disclose the opportunity to leverage relationships with other entities that share
interests with the Town.

5. Use methods of collecting, reviewing, transmitting or storing information that fail to
protect confidential information.

Section 2 — Financial Management: With respect to the actual, ongoing condition of the
Town’s financial health, Council Members and employees will not cause or allow a material
deviation from the policies adopted by the Council, cause or allow any fiscal condition that is
inconsistent with achieving the Council’s directives, fail to exercise due and prudent care, or place
the long term financial health of the organization in jeopardy. Accordingly, Council Members and
employees may not:

1. Expend more funds than are conservatively projected to be received in the fiscal year,
unless revenues are made available from unrestricted net assets, or other reserves in excess of
minimum fund balances, as approved by the Council.

2. Indebt the Town or create obligations beyond the Town’s anticipated revenues.

3. Fail to meet obligations in a timely manner.

4. Fail to continually review expenditures and effectiveness of budgetary controls of the
Town and present to the Council quarterly financial reports.

5. Allow reports or filings required by any local, state or federal agency to be overdue or
inaccurately filed.

6. Expend any funds without disclosing to the Council any conflict of interest or fail to
annually provide a conflict-of-interest report to the Council.

7. Fail to aggressively pursue receivables after a reasonable grace period.

17

8. Fail to keep complete and accurate financial records on a modified accrual basis by
fund type and accounts in accordance with GAAP.

9. Receive, process or disburse funds under controls that are inconsistent with GAAP.

10. Violate the Town’s purchasing policy. Splitting orders to avoid this limit is not

acceptable.

11. Change fee structures without properly executed public notice, public hearings and

Council approval.

12. Use any long-term reserves without the express consent of the Council.

13. Develop or administer any program that leverages the benefit of any individual Council
or employee.

14. Fail to make an annual presentation to the Council of the Town’s goals, budget and
activities.

Section 3 — Asset Protection: The Council, employees and contractors will not allow Town
assets to be unprotected, inadequately maintained, inappropriately used or unnecessarily risked.
Accordingly, Town Council, employees, and contractors (when applicable) will not:

1. Fail to insure adequately against theft and casualty and maintain adequate liability

protection for Council Members, employees, and the Town itself.

2. Unnecessarily expose the Town, the Council, employees, or contractors to claims of
liability.

3. Fail to obtain insurance coverage against theft and property losses to 100 percent of
replacement value.

4. Allow personnel access to material amounts of funds or fail to manage each major fund
of the Town, and closely supervise those having the care, management, collection, or
distribution of public monies belonging to the Town.

5. Subject facilities and equipment to improper wear and tear or insufficient maintenance.

6. For Council Members and employees, make any purchases without strict compliance
with the Town’s purchasing policies and procedures.

7. Receive, process or disburse funds under controls which are insufficient to meet the
compliance standards of the Town’s Independent Auditor.

18

8. Invest or hold funds in instruments that are non-compliant with the State Money
Management Act.

9, Fail to protect public records, Town information and files from loss or significant
damage.

10. Acquire, encumber or dispose of real property without a recommendation from the
Council.

11. Fail to maintain a minimum general fund balance of 50% of the current year’s property
tax collections, unless authorized by the Council; nor allow the general fund balance to exceed
100% of the current year’s property tax collections.

12. Fail to manage Town assets in compliance with GASB Statement No. 34, and the asset
capitalization policy adopted by the Council.

13. Endanger the organization’s public image or credibility, particularly in ways that would
hinder its purpose, mission and values.

Section 4 — Communication and Support to the Council: Town staff will give the Council
as much information as necessary to allow the Council to be adequately informed and supported
in their work. Accordingly, Town staff and contractors will:

1. Submit monitoring data required by the Council in a timely, accurate and
understandable fashion, directly addressing provisions of the Council policies being monitored
and including the staffs’ or contractors’ interpretations.

2. Advise the Council in a timely manner of trends, facts and information relevant to the
Council’s work.

3. Advise the Council of significant transfers of money within funds or other changes
substantially affecting the organization’s financial condition.

4. Advise the Council of changes in assumptions upon which Council policy has been
established.

5. Provide for the Council as many staff and external points of view and opinions as
needed for fully informed Council decisions.

6. Advise the Council if, the Council or individual members are not in compliance with
the Council’s policies, particularly in the case of Council or Council Member behavior that is
detrimental to the work relationship between the Council and the Mayor.

7. Provide a mechanism for official Council, officer or committee communication.

8. Work with the Council as a whole except when:

19

a. Fulfilling reasonable individual requests for information.
b. Working with officers or committees duly charged by the Council.
c. Communicating with the Mayor.

9. Report in a timely manner any actual or anticipated noncompliance with any Council

or other policy.

10. Supply sufficient information about items on the agenda to enable Mayors of the

Council to make informed decisions.
11. Provide to Council Members a draft copy of Council meeting minutes within twenty
(20) working days after each meeting.

12. Provide electronic notice to Council Members, including a proposed agenda and related

information at least five days prior to a scheduled Council meeting.

13. Supply for the consent agenda all items delegated to the Mayor, yet required by law or

contract to be Council-approved, along with monitoring assurance.
ARTICLE XV — ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY

Section 1 — General: This acceptable use policy constitutes a “written policy of the public
servant’s entity” for the purposes of Utah Code Ann. § 76-8-402(1)(a)(iii).

Section 2 — Authorization: Town public servants are authorized to use public property for
personal use as provided in this Article.

Section 3 — Guidelines: Town public servants are encouraged to use Town public
property of in a manner that complies with the following:

1. The use does not damage the public property;

2. The use does not cost the Town more than $2,500.00;

3. The use does not interfere with use of the public property as intended for the public

use; and

4. The use allows public servants who have been authorized, formally or informally, to

use Town equipment for personal use to do so in accordance with state laws.

Section 4 — Warnings: If the Council, a Council Member, or a Town supervisor believes
that a public servant is using public property in a manner contrary to the guidelines set forth in
Article XV, Section 3, the Council, Council Members, or supervisor will give the public servant a

20

written statement that describes the public servant’s improper use of Town public property and
informs the public servant that he or she should immediately stop using the public property in a
manner that is contrary to the guidelines.

Section 5 — Repeat Violations: A public servant will violate this Article if he or she:

1. Receives a warning under Section 4 of this Article that is not appealed or is upheld by
the Council; and

2. Uses public property in the same or in a substantially similar manner as set forth in the
previously issued warning within a year of that warning.

Section 6 — Demand for Payment: If a public servant violates this Article, the Town will
demand in writing that the applicable public servant repay the full cost of his or use personal use
of public property. Any written demand that the Town issues under this Section must include the
total amount owing, an explanation of how the Town calculated the amount owing, and a deadline
for the public servant to repay the amount owing. The public servant’s use of the public property
will be deemed to be unauthorized if the public servant does not repay the amount owing within
the time allotted in the written demand. Provided, however, that a public servant may respond to a
written demand by requesting a re-payment schedule, which request the Council, in its sole
discretion may approve or deny. If the Council establishes a re-payment schedule, failure of the
public servant to comply with that re-payment schedule will constitute the unauthorized use of
Town’s public property.

Section 7 — Appeals: A public servant may appeal a warning or demand for payment issued
under this Article to the Council if the public servant believes the warning or demand for payment
is in error or is otherwise improper under this Article or applicable law. The public servant must
file a written appeal with the Council within 10 days of the public servant’s receipt of the warning
or demand for payment. The Council will hear the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting
or, in its discretion, hold a special meeting to hear the appeal. When hearing an appeal filed under
this Section, the Council will review the warning or demand for payment de novo along with any
information or evidence provided by the public servant. The public servant will bear the burden of
proof of showing by a preponderance of the evidence that the warning or demand for payment is
in error. The Council will issue a written decision explaining the reasoning for its decision and
will provide the public servant with a copy of its decision, provided that any decision issued under
this Section must include the following disclaimer: “This decision pertains to an internal Town
employment matter and does not constitute evidence of any criminal wrongdoing.”

Section 8 — Disciplinary Action:

1. A public servant who violates this Article will be subject to all applicable disciplinary
actions set forth in this Policy and may be subject to civil and criminal penalties under Utah
and federal law, depending on the circumstances, provided:

21

a. If an independent contractor violates this Article, such violation will constitute
grounds for the Town to rescind or void a contract entered into with that independent
contractor;

b. A Council Member who violates this Article may be subject to civil and criminal
penalties, including but not limited to disqualification from office pursuant to Utah Code
Ann. § 76-8-404; and

c. The Council may, in its discretion, refer violations under this Article to the
appropriate law enforcement authorities if the Council has reason to believe that a public
servant has committed a crime.

ARTICLE XVI —- HIGHER LAW TO CONTROL AND SEVERABILITY

In the event of any conflict between this Policy and any applicable federal or state law, rule or
regulation, the law, rule or regulation, including amendments and modifications thereto, shall
control to the extent of such inconsistency. The provisions of this Policy are further declared to be
severable, and if any provision of this Policy shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
unconstitutional or if the application of this Policy to any person or circumstance is held to be
invalid or unconstitutional, such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions
of the ordinance codified in this Policy.

22

At-Will Employment Acknowledgement and Waiver
Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1105(2)(e), I acknowledge that my employment with Town of
Copperton (“Town”) is at will. I understand and agree that my employment is not for any definite
term and may be terminated by the Town or by me at any time, with or without cause, and with or
without notice, subject only to applicable law. I acknowledge that no oral or written statement,
policy, handbook, or representation by any supervisor, manager, or elected official alters my at-
will employment status unless expressly approved by the Town Council in a written contract
signed by authorized representatives.
I acknowledge that I have been informed that certain employees of a municipality may be entitled
to pre-disciplinary or pre-termination procedures under Utah Code Annotated § 10-3-1106,
including notice and an opportunity to respond prior to suspension or termination. J further
acknowledge that under Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1105(2)(e), an employee may voluntarily waive
those statutory procedures.
By signing this acknowledgment, I knowingly, voluntarily, and expressly waive any right J may
have to the disciplinary, pre-termination, pre-suspension, or other rights or procedures described
in Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-1106, to the fullest extent permitted by § 10-3-1105(2)(e). I understand
that as a result of this waiver, the Town may discipline, suspend, or terminate my employment
without providing those statutory procedures, and that my status will remain strictly at will.
I confirm that this waiver is voluntary, is not a condition of any existing contractual employment
right and is executed without coercion or improper pressure. I have been given the opportunity to
ask questions and to seek independent advice and legal counsel before signing. I understand that
this waiver does not limit any rights that cannot be waived under federal or state law, including
claims for unlawful discrimination, retaliation, or other protected rights.
Employee Name:
Employee Signature: Date:
Position/Department:
Town Representative: Date:
Title:

23

n
“
‘
ry
.
‘
“
a.
= ‘
.
'
-
”
x a
.
