a a
u
i
COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL ,
RESOLUTION NO. R2026-10 . DATE: June 17, 2026 |
A RESOLUTION OF THE COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL RESTATING THE
TOWN’S PURCHASING POLICY
. ,
WHEREAS, the Town of Copperton (“Copperton”) is a municipality and holitical
subdivision of the State of Utah; and
WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-6-122 requires each municipality to adopt purchasing policies
to guide the Town in the purchase of goods and services; and '
WHEREAS, the Copperton Town Council desires to restate and update its purchasing
| policy to reflect Copperton’s conversion from a metro township to a town, to update the policy’s }
purchase thresholds, and to make other amendments.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE COPPERTON TOWN COUNCIL:
| 1. Adoption. The purchasing policy attached to this resolution is approved effective
immediately, and all prior purchasing policies are repealed in their entirety. : -
2. Direction to Mayor and Staff. the Mayor and staff are authorized and directed to ,
| take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this Resolution to become effective under Utah law; and .
(b) to finalize and post the Resolution to Municode, including but not limited to making non- }
substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors. | |
3. Purchasing Agent. The Council designates the Mayor as the Town’s Purchasing }
Agent for the purposes of the policy. ! |
4. Effective Date. This resolution will take effect immediately. |
i
. 2
. [Execution on following page] :
i
| |
|
t
|
,
|
|

APPROVED and ADOPTED this 17" day of June 2026

TOWN OF COPPERTON

By: aN

Sean laytpn,
ATTEST
Diana Baun, Clerk
Voting:
Councilmember Stitzer voting ALSENDT
Councilmember Bailey voting
Councilmember Pratt voting
Councilmember McCalmon_ voting
Mayor Clayton voting
2

{
) TOWN OF COPPERTON
PURCHASING POLICY
Effective June 17, 2026 |
ARTICLE I - GENERAL PROVISIONS
A. Purposes. The underlying purposes of this purchasing policy (“Policy”) are to: |
| 1. Ensure the fair and equitable treatment of all persons who wish to or do conduct
business within the Town of Copperton (“Town”).
|
: 2. Provide for the greatest possible economy in Town Procurement activities. |
3. Foster effective broad-based competition within the free enterprise system to ensure
that the Town will receive the best possible service or product at the lowest possible
price.
B. Compliance.
1. This Policy will not prevent the Town from complying with the terms and conditions _
of any grant, gift, or bequest that is otherwise consistent with law.
2. When Procurement involves the expenditure of federal assistance funds, the Town will
comply with applicable federal law and regulations.
C. Definitions. |
1. “Business” means any corporation, partnership, individual, sole proprietorship, joint
stock company, joint venture, or any other private legal entity.
i
2. “Change Order” means a written order signed by the Purchasing Agent, directing the
contractor to suspend work or make changes, which the appropriate clauses of the
contract authorize the Purchasing Agent to order without the consent of the contractor
or any written alteration in specifications, delivery point, rate of delivery, period of
performance, price, quantity, or other provisions of any accomplished by mutual action
of the parties to the . i
t
3. “Construction Purchase” means the acquisition of goods, services, and resources for a
construction project.
4. “Contract” means any Town agreement for the Procurement or disposal of cupplies,
services, or construction. :
4 |

5. “Council” means the Copperton Town Council.
. 6. “Including” means “including but not limited to” or “without limitation.”
7. “Invitation for Bids” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by :
reference, used for soliciting bids. |
8. “May” means an action is permissive. |
9. “May not” means an action is prohibited.
| 10. “Person” means any Business, individual, union, committee, club, other organization, |
or group of individuals. |
1 |
| 11. “Procurement” means buying, purchasing, renting, leasing, leasing with an option to
: purchase, or otherwise acquiring any supplies, construction, or other services.
:
| 12. “Procurement Item” means any supplies, construction, or other services that the Town ,
| may acquire pursuant to this Policy.
| |
13. “Purchasing Agent” means the person duly authorized by the Copperton Town Council :
to enter into and administer Contracts and make written determinations with respect |
thereto.
14. “Request for Proposals” means all documents, whether attached or incorporated by |
reference, used for soliciting proposals.
15. “Sole Source Procurement” means a Procurement without competition pursuant to a '
determination by the Purchasing Agent under Section III.A.4 that there is only one |
source for the Procurement Item.
16. “Town” means the Town of Copperton.
17. “Will” means an action is mandatory or required.
ARTICLE II - PURCHASING AGENT
The Council will appoint a Purchasing Agent to make Procurements, solicit bids and proposals,
enter into and administer Contracts, and make written purchasing determinations for the Town
. in accordance with this Policy and in accordance with applicable law.
{
, ,
4 ,

ARTICLE III - SOURCE SELECTION AND CONTRACT FORMATION AND
GENERAL PROVISIONS
A. Purchase not Requiring Sealed Bids.

1. Small Purchases: Small purchases costing $2,000 or less in total, will not require bids
of any type. (Purchases will not be artificially divided to constitute a small purchase

| under this section.)

2. Non-Construction Purchases Requiring Telephone Bids. Purchases for non-
construction projects costing between $2,001 and $50,000 in total, will require three
(3) telephone bids.

| 3. Construction Purchases Requiring Telephone Bids. Purchases for construction projects
costing between $50,001 and $250,000 in total, will require three (3) telephone bids.

. 4. State Contracts. Purchases made through the cooperative purchasing Contracts
administered by the State Division of Purchasing or other governmental entity which
has applied its purchasing and Procurement policies.

5. Sole Source Procurement. Purchases made from a sole-source provider if the
Purchasing Agent determines in writing that a Sole Source Procurement is needed for
one or more of the following reasons. The Purchasing Agent will also ensure that the
terms of the Contract, including price and delivery, are in the best interests of the Town.

i. There is only one source for the Procurement Item;

ii. The transitional costs are a significant consideration in selecting the Procurement
Item and the results of a cost-benefit analysis demonstrate that transitional costs
are unreasonable or cost-prohibitive, and that the award of a Contract without
engaging in a standard Procurement process is in the best interest of the Town; or

iii. |The award of a contact is under circumstances that make awarding the Contract
through a standard Procurement process impractical and not in the best interest
of the Town. }

6. Emergency Purchases. Purchases required during an emergency, i.e., an eminent threat
to the public’s health, welfare, or safety. However, as much competition as practical
should be obtained; and, such purchases should be limited to amounts necessary to the
resolution of the emergency. The Purchasing Agent will also document in writing the
nature of the emergency that required the emergency purchases and the actions taken
to procure the Procurement Item. The Purchasing Agent will notify the Council as soon
as reasonably possible of the need for, amount of, and nature of any emergency
purchase made pursuant to this subsection.

}
|

7. Publication. If the Town does not use competitive sealed bidding for a Procurenient
. that exceeds the highest amounts in Article IIT.A.2 ($50,000) and Article IILA.3 ,
($250,000), it will provide notice of Procurements pursuant to Utah Code § 63G-6a-
* 802, excepting small purchases.
B. Purchases Requiring Sealed Bids.

1. General. The Town will award all Contracts for a Procurement Item with an estimated
value in excess of the highest amounts in Article III.A.2 ($50,000) and Article II.A.3
($250,000) by competitive sealed bidding except as otherwise provided by this Policy.

2. Invitation for Bids. An Invitation for Bids will be issued when a Contract is to be
awarded by competitive sealed bidding. The invitation will include:

i. Adescription of the Procurement Item that the Town seeks;
|
ii. Instructions for submitting a bid, including the deadline for submitting a bid; |
|
iii. | The objective criteria that the Town will use to evaluate bids;
iv. Information about the time and manner of opening bids; and |
vy. Terms and conditions that the Town intends to include in a Contract resulting
from the bidding process.

3. Publication. The Purchasing Agent will publish an Invitation for Bids in accordance |
with the requirements of Utah Code § 63G-6a-112, meaning that the Purchasing Agent |

. will publish the bid at least seven (7) days prior to the date set forth therein for the
opening of bids on the Town’s website or on a website owned, managed by, or provided 2
by the State of Utah for the posting of public Procurement notices. The Purchasing
Agent may, but is not required to, public the Invitation for Bids in a newspaper of
general circulation within the Town. The Purchasing Agent may reduce the seven (7)
day period described in this subsection in accordance with Utah Code § 63G-6a-112. }

4. Opening of Bids. Bids will be opened publicly in the presence of one or more witnesses
at the time and place designated in the invitations for bids. The amount of each bid and |
any other relevant information, together with the name of each bidder, will be recorded. |
The record and each bid will be open to public inspection.

I

5. Acceptance of Bids. Bids will be unconditionally accepted without alternation or
correction, except as authorized in this policy. Bids will be evaluated based on the
requirements set forth in the Invitation for Bids.

6. Corrections and Withdrawals of Bids. Correction or withdrawal of inadvertently |
erroneous bids before or after award, or cancellation of awards or Contracts based on )
such bid mistakes, will be permitted. After bid opening no changes in bid prices or other |

{

EEE EE nnn nnn nnn eee enn nn nnn nnn nnn nn nn EE |
|
, provisions of bids prejudicial to the interest of the Town of fair competition will be 3
permitted. All decisions to permit the correction or withdrawal of bids or to cancel
awards or Contracts based on bid mistakes will be supported by a written determination
made by the Purchasing Agent. }
|
‘7. Contract Negotiation and Awards. The Contract will be awarded with reasonable ,
promptness, by written notice, to the lowest bidder whose bid meets the requirements }
and criteria set forth in the Invitation for Bids, subject to the Purchasing Agent
concluding any negotiations that may be needed to finalize the Contract.
8. Construction Contracts. The Town will follow the procedures contained in Utah Code
§ 11-39-101 et seq. for the letting of Contracts for the construction of building
improvements or public works projects as defined therein and any provision of this
policy that conflicts with the provisions of Utah Code § 11-39-101 et seq. will not apply
to the letting of Contracts covered by this Policy of state law. ,
C. Prior Council Authorization. The Purchasing Agent will secure the Council’s prior
authorization before purchasing a Procurement Item that is not a small purchase under
Article III.A.1 or an emergency purchase under Article III.A.5.
D. Cancellation and Rejection of Bids. An Invitation for Bids, a Request for Proposals, or
other solicitations may be canceled, or any or all bids or proposals may be rejected, in
whole or in part, as may be specified in the solicitation, when it is in the best interests of
the Town. The reasons will be made part of the Contract file. |
|
E. Use of Competitive Sealed Proposals in lieu of Bids (Requests for Proposals). |
1. Competitive Sealed Proposals. When the Purchasing Agent determines in writing that
the use of competitive sealed bidding is either not practicable or not advantageous to
the Town, a Contract may be entered into by competitive sealed proposals. Competitive
sealed proposals are most appropriately used for professional service-type Contracts.
2. Solicitation of Competitive Sealed Proposals.
i. The Request for Proposals will state the relative importance of price and other
evaluating factors;
ii. Proposals will be solicited through a Request for Proposals; and |
iii. Public notice of the Request for Proposals will be given at least ten (10) days prior
to the advertised date of the opening of the proposals.

, 3. Opening of Competitive Sealed Proposals. Proposals will be opened to avoid disclosure
of contents to competing offerors during the process of negotiation. A register of
proposals will be prepared and will be open for public inspection after Contract
award. |

|
\

4. Fair and Equal Treatment. Offerors will be accorded fair and equal treatment with
respect to any opportunity for discussion and revision of proposals, and revisions may
be permitted after submissions and prior to award for the purpose of obtaining best and
final offers. In conduction discussions, there will be no disclosure of any information
derived from proposals submitted by competing offerors.
5. Awards for Competitive Sealed Proposals. Awards will be made to the person whose
proposal is determined, in writing, to be the most advantageous to the Town, taking
into consideration price and the evaluation factors set forth in the Request for
Proposals. No other factors or criteria will be used in the evaluation. The Contract file
| will contain the basis on which the award is made.
F. Architect-Engineer Services. Architect-engineer services are qualification-based
| procurements. Requests for such services should be publicly announced. Contracts should
be negotiated by the Purchasing Agent based on demonstrated competence at fair and ’
reasonable prices.
G. Determination of Non-responsibility of Bidder. Determination of non-responsibility of
a bidder or offeror will be made in writing. The unreasonable failure of a bidder or offeror
to promptly supply information in connection with an inquiry with respect to responsibility
may be grounds for a determination of non-responsibility with respect to the bidder or
offeror. Information furnished by a bidder or offeror pursuant to this subsection will not be
disclosed outside of the purchasing division without prior written consent by the bidder or
offeror.
H. Cost-Plus-A-Percentage-Of-Cost Contracts Prohibited. Subject to the limitations of this
subsection, any type of Contract which will promote the best interests of the Town may be
used, provided that the use of a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost Contract is prohibited. A
cost-reimbursement Contract may be used only when a determination is made in writing
that such Contract is likely to be less costly to the Town than any other type or that it is
impracticable to obtain the supplies, services, or construction, required except under such
a Contract. ;
J. Change Orders. The Purchasing Agent is authorized to approve Change Orders to a
Contract when the total amount of all such change orders is less than $2,000. The Council
must approve change orders to a Contract when the total amount of all such change orders
exceeds $2,001.
ARTICLE IV —- APPEALS
A. Filing of Appeals. Any actual or prospective bidder, offeror, or Contractor who is
aggrieved in connection with the solicitation or award of a Contract may appeal to the
Purchasing Agent. An appeal will be submitted in writing within five (5) business days
after the aggrieved person knows or should have known of the facts. |
8 |
|
{
{
|

— — EE Fo a
{
‘B. Written Decision Required. The Purchasing Agent will promptly issue a written:
decision regarding any appeal, if it is not settled by a mutual agreement. The decision
will state the reasons for the action taken and inform the protestor, Contractor, or;
prospective Contractor of the right to appeal to the Town Council. ,
C. Final Action. A written decision issued by the Purchasing Agent will constitute the Town’s
final administrative action on an appeal.
ARTICLE V — ETHICS IN PUBLIC CONTRACTING
A. Conflicts of Interest Prohibited. No person involved in making Procurement decisions
may have personal investments in any Business which will create a substantial conflict
between their private interests and their public duties. The Purchasing Agent and all
applicable Town officials, staff, and contractors will comply with the Town’s ethics and
nepotism ordinances, policies, and other appliable requirements when making Procurement
decisions or otherwise implementing this Policy.
B. Penalties. In accordance with appliable state law, any person involved in making
Procurement decisions is guilty of a felony ifthe person asks, receives, or offers to receive
any emolument, gratuity, contribution, loan, or reward, or any promise thereof, either for
the person s own use or the use or benefit of any other person or organization from any
person or organization interested in selling to the Town.
t
ARTICLE VI-— MISCELLANEOUS.
A. Successor Statutes. Any statute referred to in this Policy will be deemed to include that
statute as amended, restated, and/or replaced from time to time, and any successor
legislation to the same general intent and effect.
B. Severability. If any article, section, subsection, sentence, clause, or phrase of this
ordinance is for any reason held to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such
decision will not affect the validity of the remainder of this Policy. .
C. Revisions. The Council may revise this Policy as needed at any time by majority vote.
'
|
,
?
|
|
}
