10-20-1101. Appeal authority required -- Condition precedent to judicial review -- Appeal authority duties.

[History: Amended by Chapter 166, 2026 General Session]

(1)
    (a) Subject to Subsection (1)(d), each municipality adopting a land use ordinance shall, by ordinance, establish one or more appeal authorities.
    (b) An appeal authority described in Subsection (1)(a) shall hear and decide:
        (i) requests for a variance from a land use ordinance;
        (ii) appeals from a land use decision applying a land use ordinance; and
        (iii) appeals from a fee charged in accordance with Section 10-20-904.
    (c) An appeal authority described in Subsection (1)(a) may not hear an appeal from the enactment of a land use regulation.
    (d) Beginning on July 1, 2026, a city described in Subsection 10-20-302(5)(a)(i) may not designate the city's legislative body as an appeal authority.
    (e) Notwithstanding Subsection (1)(d), a legislative body shall continue to be the appeal authority for an appeal if:
        (i) a land use ordinance designated the legislative body as the appeal authority when the appellant filed the appeal; and
        (ii) the appellant filed the appeal on or before June 30, 2026.
(2) As a condition precedent to judicial review, each adversely affected party or land use applicant shall timely and specifically challenge a land use authority's land use decision, in accordance with local ordinance.
(3) An appeal authority described in Subsection (1)(a):
    (a) shall:
        (i) act in a quasi-judicial manner; and
        (ii) serve as the final arbiter of issues involving the interpretation or application of a land use ordinance; and
    (b) may not entertain an appeal of a matter in which the appeal authority, or any participating member, had first acted as the land use authority.
(4) By ordinance, a municipality may:
    (a) designate a separate appeal authority to hear requests for variances than the appeal authority the municipality designates to hear appeals;
    (b) designate one or more separate appeal authorities to hear distinct types of appeals of land use authority decisions;
    (c) require an adversely affected party to present to an appeal authority every theory of relief that the adversely affected party can raise in district court; and
    (d) provide that specified types of land use decisions may be appealed directly to the district court.
(5) A municipality may not:
    (a) require a public hearing for a request for a variance or land use appeal; or
    (b) require a land use applicant or adversely affected party to pursue successive appeals before the same or separate appeal authorities as a condition of an appealing party's duty to exhaust administrative remedies.
(6) If the municipality establishes or, before the effective date of this chapter, has established a multiperson board, body, or panel to act as an appeal authority, at a minimum the board, body, or panel shall:
    (a) notify each of the members of the board, body, or panel of any meeting or hearing of the board, body, or panel;
    (b) provide each of the members of the board, body, or panel with the same information and access to municipal resources as any other member;
    (c) convene only if a quorum of the members of the board, body, or panel is present; and
    (d) act only upon the vote of a majority of the convened members of the board, body, or panel.
