10-20-805. Process for subdivision review and approval.

[History: Renumbered and Amended by Chapter 15, 2025 Special Session 1]

(1)
    (a) As used in this section, an "administrative land use authority" means an individual, board, or commission, appointed or employed by a municipality, including municipal staff or a municipal planning commission.
    (b) "Administrative land use authority" does not include a municipal legislative body or a member of a municipal legislative body.
(2)
    (a) This section applies to land use decisions arising from subdivision applications for single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings, or townhomes.
    (b) This section does not apply to land use regulations adopted, approved, or agreed upon by a legislative body exercising land use authority in the review of land use applications for zoning or other land use regulation approvals.
(3) A municipal ordinance governing the subdivision of land shall:
    (a) comply with this section, and establish a standard method and form of application for preliminary subdivision applications and final subdivision applications; and
    (b)
        (i) designate a single administrative land use authority for the review of preliminary applications to subdivide land; or
        (ii) if the municipality has adopted an ordinance that establishes a separate procedure for the review and approval of subdivisions under Section 10-20-808, the municipality may designate a different and separate administrative land use authority for the approval of subdivisions under Section 10-20-808.
(4)
    (a) If an applicant requests a pre-application meeting, the municipality shall, within 15 business days after the request, schedule the meeting to review the concept plan and give initial feedback.
    (b) At the pre-application meeting, the municipal staff shall provide or have available on the municipal website the following:
        (i) copies of applicable land use regulations;
        (ii) a complete list of standards required for the project;
        (iii) preliminary and final application checklists; and
        (iv) feedback on the concept plan.
(5) A preliminary subdivision application shall comply with all applicable municipal ordinances and requirements of this section.
(6) An administrative land use authority may complete a preliminary subdivision application review in a public meeting or at a municipal staff level.
(7) With respect to a preliminary application to subdivide land, an administrative land use authority may:
    (a) receive public comment; and
    (b) hold no more than one public hearing.
(8) If a preliminary subdivision application complies with the applicable municipal ordinances and the requirements of this section, the administrative land use authority shall approve the preliminary subdivision application.
(9) A municipality shall review and approve or deny a final subdivision plat application in accordance with the provisions of this section and municipal ordinances, which:
    (a) may permit concurrent processing of the final subdivision plat application with the preliminary subdivision plat application; and
    (b) may not require planning commission or city council approval.
(10) If a final subdivision application complies with the requirements of this section, the applicable municipal ordinances, and the preliminary subdivision approval granted under Subsection (9)(a), a municipality shall approve the final subdivision application.
