10-20-501. Enactment of land use regulation, land use decision, or development agreement.

[History: Amended by Chapter 166, 2026 General Session]

(1) Only a legislative body, as the body authorized to weigh policy considerations, may enact a land use regulation.
(2)
    (a) Except as provided in Subsection (2)(b), a legislative body may enact a land use regulation only by ordinance.
    (b) A legislative body may, by ordinance or resolution, enact a land use regulation that imposes a fee.
(3) A legislative body shall ensure that a land use regulation is consistent with the purposes of this chapter.
(4)
    (a) A legislative body shall adopt a land use regulation to:
        (i) create or amend a zoning district under Subsection 10-20-503(1)(a); and
        (ii) designate general uses allowed in each zoning district.
    (b) A land use authority may establish or modify other restrictions or requirements other than those described in Subsection (4)(a), including the configuration or modification of uses or density, through a land use decision that applies criteria or policy elements that a land use regulation establishes or describes.
(5)
    (a) Except as provided in Subsection (5)(b) or (5)(c), a municipality shall publish on the municipality's website:
        (i) all of the municipality's land use regulations; and
        (ii) a fee schedule that lists all of the municipality's fees related to a land use application, land use permit, or land use regulation, including development review fees and impact fees.
    (b) A municipality that does not have a maintained and active website shall provide for inspection of the information described in Subsection (5)(a) at the municipality's place of business during normal business hours.
    (c) A municipality may comply with Subsection (5)(a) by:
        (i) posting a link on the municipality's website to a separate webpage or third-party website where the land use regulations or fee schedule described in Subsection (5)(a) are posted; and
        (ii) submitting a new or modified land use regulation or fee schedule described in Subsection (5)(a) to the third-party website within six months after the day on which the legislative body adopts the new or modified land use regulation or fee schedule.
(6) A municipality may not adopt a land use regulation or development agreement, or make a land use decision, that restricts the type of crop that may be grown in an area that is:
    (a) zoned agricultural; or
    (b) assessed under Title 59, Chapter 2, Part 5, Farmland Assessment Act.
(7) A municipal land use regulation pertaining to an airport or an airport influence area, as that term is defined in Section 72-10-401, is subject to Title 72, Chapter 10, Part 4, Airport Zoning Act.
