                                COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                                DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

                                ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING MINUTES
                                March 11, 2020

Cottonwood Heights Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson or designee will
hold an Administrative Hearing Meeting on Wednesday, March 11, 2020 beginning 12:03 p.m. in Room
5 (Council Chambers) located at 2277 E. Bengal Blvd., Cottonwood Heights, Utah.

Staff Present: CED Director Michael Johnson, Assistant Planner Samantha DeSeelhorst, Deputy City
Recorder Heather Sundquist

Others Present: Margorie Valore, Ellen Pratt, Bryan Shoots
Community and Economic Development Director Michael Johnson have an overview of the agenda item.

ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING MEETING
         1.0 Business Items
                   1.1. (Project CUP-20-007)
                        Request from Michael and Bridgette Higgins to construct an 8-foot fence on
                        their east property line at 2247 E Tompkins Dr.


Assistant Planner Samantha DeSeelhorst gave a presentation of the proposed project including an aerial
view of the property and adjoining properties. She detailed the reasons for the fencing request and
presented examples of the materials that will be used to construct the fence.
Community and Economic Development Director Michael Johnson opened the meeting to public
comment:


        Marjorie Mellor, 2262 Emerald Hills Court. Marjorie is an adjoining neighbor and expressed her
        concerns about the height of the proposed fence. Marjorie feels the higher fence will make her
        feel like she is in a hole or a cave. She is unhappy with the look and feel of the 8 foot fence that
        went in last year and does not want that fence to continue in the proposed yard.
        Ellen Pratt is a friend of Marjorie and also lives in the condo complex. Ellen expressed her
        confusion on the need for the higher fence and the homeowners concerns for additional
        privacy. She also commented that the condos have very shallow backyards and the tall fence
        would feel very closed in.
        Bryan Shoots is with the Board of the Emerald Heights HOA, but noted he was speaking as an
        individual, not as a Board Member. Bryan expressed his concerns on the look of the open areas
        within the complex if the City continues to grant permission for owners to install varying heights
        of fences with different types of materials used. He feels this will not look good aesthetically and
        will also impact the residence views.


CED Director Michael Johnson closed the Public Comment and gave an overview of the City’s
perspective and procedures relating to conditional use permits. He explained that fences can be built up
to 6 feet in height without any permit requirements or specifications on building materials and also
provided additional information on the ordinance and application requirements to increase the fence
height up to eight feet as well as the requirements to go above the 8 height. CED Director Johnson
explained that the city is somewhat limited in its ability to deny conditional use permits, they must meet
certain criteria for denial which are set by the State of Utah. He explained that it is hard to outright deny
the permit but there is the possibility of approval with specific conditions. Staff was directed to follow
up with the applicant, who was not in attendance, for more detailed rational on the requested fence
height so further analysis can be done.
Motion to continued was made by CED Michael Johnson and scheduled to meet again in 2 weeks to
discuss the additional information.


Meeting was adjournment at 12:23 pm
