                               COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                               DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

                               ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING MINUTES
                               July 1, 2020

Cottonwood Heights Community and Economic Development Director Michael Johnson held an
Administrative Hearing Meeting on Wednesday, July 1, at 12:00 p.m. In view of the current COVID-19
pandemic, this meeting was held electronically, without a physical location, as authorized by the
Governor’s Executive Order 2020-05 dated 18 March 2020. The public was able to hear the open
portions of the meeting through live broadcast by connecting to http://mixlr.com/chmeetings

Staff Present: Community & Economic Development Director Michael Johnson, Deputy City Recorder
Heather Sundquist, Assistant Planner Samantha DeSeelhorst, Planner Andrew Hulka.

Other Present: Applicants, Ryan Pitt, Matthew Farides,

Community and Economic Development Director Michael Johnson called the meeting to order and
welcomed those attending the meeting via Zoom.

            1.0 Business Items
                      1.1. (Project CUP-20-010)
                        Request from Ryan Pitt, on behalf of Brad Fagergren, for a wall height extension
                        at 2127 E. Worchester Dr.
Assistant Planner Samantha DeSeelhorst shared a PowerPoint presentation and gave an overview of the
project. Samantha explained that the applicant plans to install a retaining wall to raise the grade of the
backyard and make the space more useable, they also plan to install a standard 6’ fence on top of the
retraining wall for privacy. Samantha provided examples of the materials to be used for the fence and
stated that the adjoining neighbors have all consented to the project. No public comment was received
for this project and staff is recommending approval with the recommendation that the applicant obtain
a building permit including structural engineering calculations for the retaining wall as well as an
inspection upon completion.

CED Director Michael Johnson asked the applicant if they would like to add anything to presentation,
Mr. Pitt stated that Samantha covered everything necessary.
The project was approved pursuant to the conditions and findings outlined in items staff report.


                      1.2. (Project CUP-20-012)
                        Request from Matthew Farides for a short-term rental at 8152 S. Clover Spring
                        Ln.
Assistant Planner Samantha DeSeelhorst shared a PowerPoint presentation and gave an overview of the
project. Samantha showed an aerial view of the property and stated this project meets the
requirements for a short term rental. She presented a diagram showing the property’s room layout. One
public comment was received for this project. The comment received was from Li Zhang and stated that
they have concerns about a rental property with the current Covid -19 pandemic. The comment is
attached to the Administrative Hearing Packet on the city website for viewing. Staff is recommending
approval of the request with the following conditions; obtain a business license and conditional use
permit, compliance with code items, abiding by occupancy requirements as well as laws, rules and
regulations instituted as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic.
CED Director Michael Johnson asked the applicant if they would like to add anything. Mr. Farides
reiterated that the property will not be rented until after the pandemic has subsided.
The project was approved pursuant to the conditions and findings outlined in items staff report.


                     1.3. (Project CUP-20-013)
                        Request from Timothy and Cheryl Blair for a short-term rental at 3567 E.
                        Wasatch Hills Ln.
Planner Andrew Hulka shared a PowerPoint presentation and gave an overview of the project. Andrew
explained that the project is in the same complex as the previous project presented by Samantha, the
property is in the appropriate zoning district and meets the requirements. He stated that staff received
photos and floor plans that have been reviewed and approved by staff. The previous public comment
submitted by Li Zhang is applicable to this project as well and was added to the record. Staff is
recommending approval of the request with the following conditions; obtain a business license and
conditional use permit, compliance with code items, abiding by occupancy requirements as well as laws,
rules and regulations instituted as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic. In addition Andrew discussed the
processes and procedure that the property management company plans to implement in response to
the current Covid-19 pandemic.
CED Director Michael Johnson asked the applicant if they would like to add anything to presentation.
Applicant Timothy Blair stated that the property will not be available for rental for a few months
because they want to make some improvements and reiterated their compliance with Covid-19
prevention efforts.
The project was approved pursuant to the conditions and findings outlined in items staff report.


             2.0 Consent Agenda
                     2.1. Approval of Minutes for July 1, 2020
Minutes for the meeting were approved, subject to the procedure for approving current meeting
minutes as listing in the staff report


             3.0 Meeting was adjourned at 12:19pm
