                                  COTTONWOOD HEIGHTS CITY
                                  DEPARTMENT OF COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT

                                  ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING MINUTES
                                  April 7, 2021


The Cottonwood Heights Community and Economic Development Director held an Administrative
Hearing Meeting on Wednesday, April 7, which began at 12:00 p.m. In view of the current COVID-19
pandemic, this meeting was held electronically, without a physical location, as authorized by the
Governor’s Executive Order dated March18, 2020 and related legislation enacted by the Utah
Legislature since that date. The public was able to remotely hear the open portions of the meeting
through live broadcast by connecting to http://mixlr.com/chmeetings.

Staff Present: Community & Economic Development Director Michael Johnson, Deputy City Recorder
Heather Sundquist, Senior Planner Andrew Hulka

Others Present: Drew Rothkopf, Patricia Laskaris


 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING MEETING
          1.0 Business Items
                     1.1. (Project CUP-21-005)
                          Request from Patricia Laskaris to operate a short-term rental at 3563 E. Rustic
                          Spring L. #76, Cottonwood Heights, UT, 84121.
             2.0 Consent Agenda
                     2.1. Approval of Minutes for April 7, 2021



Community & Economic Development Director Michael Johnson called the meeting to order, introduced
himself and turned the time over to Senior Planner Andrew Hulka to give an overview of the staff report.

Andrew Hulka stated that the project on the agenda was a request for a conditional use permit for a
short-term rental located at 3563 E. Rustic Spring Lane. The property had been reviewed for compliance
with the short term rental code, it met all the required criteria; it is in the proper zone, it is in a planned
unit development, the PUD contains 8 or more units and it is on a private lane. Senior Planner Hulka also
mentioned that the property has 4 bedrooms, which is the maximum allowed for a short term rental in
the city.

CED Director Johnson then added the applicant, Patricia Laskaris to the meeting. He told her he did not
have any further questions for her but asked if there was anything she wanted to add.

Patricia stated that they were in the process of applying for a business license and that they planned to
comply with all the rules.

The meeting was opened for public comment, seeing none, the comment period was closed.
CED Director Mike Johnson moved to approve item CUP- 21-005 pursuant to the conditions of approval
outlined in the project staff report dated April 7, 2021. He thanked Patricia Laskaris and Drew Rothkopk
for attending the meeting and directed them to follow up with Gabrielle on the zoning approval letters
as well as Sherrie Martell for the business license.

The last item on the agenda was the approval of the minutes for the meeting, following the procedure
outlined on the agenda. CED Director Johnson move to approve those minutes, subject to the process of
reviewing before they are published.

The meeting was adjourned at 12:08 pm.
