                          ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING MINUTES

The Cottonwood Heights Community and Economic Development Director, Michael Johnson
held an Administrative Hearing Meeting on Wednesday, May 18th, 2022, which began at 12:02
p.m. in the Cottonwood Heights City Council Chambers located at 2277 E. Bengal Blvd.,
Cottonwood Heights, Utah 84121.

Staff Present:          Michael Johnson, CED Director and Administrative Hearing Officer;
                        Maverick Yeh, Assistant Planner; Heather Sundquist, Deputy City
                        Recorder; Samantha DeSeelhorst, Associate Planner & Sustainability
                        Analyst

The Administrative Hearing Officer, Mr. Michael Johnson, called the meeting to order and
welcomed those present.

       1.0 Business Items
                   1.1. Project CUP-22-003 Request from Lanny and Cammie Derby for an 8-
                        10-foot fence along the north and west property line at 6997 S. Canyon
                        Creek Cir.
Mr. Maverick Yeh, Assistant Planner provided an overview of the proposed project. The
applicant is proposing to replace an existing 6-foot fence with an 8 – 10 -foot fence along the
west and north property line. The proposal includes a 6-foot vinyl fence along the west property
line and an 8-foot vinyl fence along the north property line. A 2-foot retaining wall is proposed
on the northwest corner, bringing the total combined height above the retaining wall to 8 feet on
the west property line and 10 feet on the north property line. The added height is proposed to
provide increased privacy to both the applicant and their neighbor.
Staff recommends approval of the project with the following conditions.
   1. Where the total combined fence and wall height exceeds 8 feet, the applicant must obtain
      consent from the adjacent neighbor. Neighbor consent forms must be submitted to the
      city prior to the issuance of a building permit.
   2. A building permit and all necessary inspections shall be obtained and completed.
   3. The building permit will clearly state materials, design, and shall not exceed a total height
      of 10 feet from existing grade.
   4. Provide a notarized signed consent form from adjacent property owner.

Mr. Johnson opened the meeting to Public Comment
           •     Mr. Rick Stevenson, a neighbor of the applicant, asked what color the vinyl was
                 going to be. The applicant answered that the color is tan.
           •     No other public comment was received, and the comment period was closed
The application was approved by Administrative Hearing Officer Michael Johnson, pursuant to
the fact and findings in the staff report.


          2.0 Consent Agenda
                 2.1. Approval of Minutes for May 18th, 2022
Mr. Johnson stated that the meeting minutes will be approved following the below procedure.
The Director will move to approve the above-mentioned minutes after the following process is
met. The recorder will prepare the minutes and email them to the Director and present staff
members. The Director and members will have five days to review the minutes and provide any
changes to the recorder. If, after five days there are no changes, the minutes will stand
approved. If there are changes, the process will be followed until the changes are made and
the Director and members agree, at which time the minutes shall be deemed approved.


The meeting was adjourned at 12:05 pm
