Ordinance 2020-08

        AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE PARKING CODE OF PARK CITY, UTAH,
                   AMENDING SECTION 9-10-03 ANTI-IDLING

      WHEREAS, Park City has committed to be a net-zero carbon community by
2030;and
        WHEREAS, vehicle emissions are a significant portion of the community carbon
footprint; and
       WHEREAS, emissions from vehicle idling contribute significantly to air pollution,
climate change and increased rates of cancer and heart and lung diseases which
adversely affect the health, natural environment and economic well being of residents,
guests and visitors of Park City; and
      WHEREAS, petroleum-based fuels are nonrenewable and should be used wisely
and not wasted; and
        WHEREAS, idling a typical vehicle for longer than ten seconds consumes more
fuel than restarting that vehicle, resulting in excessive emissions and wasted fuel; and
       WHEREAS, Park City Municipal Code, 9-8-3, already provides that no delivery
vehicle parked on Main Street or Swede Alley shall be parked with ils engine left idling;
and
         WHEREAS, reducing needless vehicle idling is in keeping with Park City's
affiliation with ICLEI (Local Governments for Sustainability); and
      WHEREAS, the City Council desires to ensure that idling does not occur in idle-
frequent locations such as school grounds, parking lots/garages, ski resort premises
and business centers; and
       WHEREAS, the City Council desires to take a proactive position on air pollution
to protect the livability and viability of Park City and its residents, visitors and guests;
and
      WHEREAS, it is in the public interest that Park City residents, guests and visitors
reduce vehicle emissions to protect the health, economy and natural environment of
Park City and the surrounding area;
         NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED, by the City Council of Park City, Utah
that:
         1. UPDATE TO PARKING CODE 9-10-03
       2. IDLING ORDINANCE. Park City prohibits residents, guests, visitors, town
employees and other individuals within City limits from exceeding a one minute idling
time in their gasoline or diesel-powered motor vehicles. Exceptions to these idling
guidelines include the following:
       A. The vehicle is forced to remain motionless on a public road because of traffic
conditions.
          B. The vehicle is an emergency vehicle used in an emergency situation.
        C. Vehicle idling is necessary for auxiliary power for law enforcement equipment,
refrigeration units, loading/unloading lifts, well drilling, and/or farming.
          D. Vehicle idling is necessary for repair or inspection of the vehicle.
          E. The health or safety of a driver or passenger requires the vehicle to idle.
      3. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall take effect upon adoption by the City
Council.


PASSED AND ADOPTED this 30th day of January, 2020.

                               PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION



                             /~eer~:s
Attest:




Approved as to form:




Exhibits
Exhibit 1 - LMC § 9-10
Municipal Code 9-10-1 No Idling
No driver, while operating a vehicle within Park City corporate limits, shall cause or
permit a vehicle's engine to idle for more than one minute, with exceptions for the
following circumstances.
    A. The vehicle is forced to remain motionless on a roadway because of traffic
        conditions.
    B. The vehicle is an authorized emergency vehicle used in an emergency situation.
    C. Vehicle idling is necessary for auxiliary power for law enforcement equipment,
        fire, emergency and water equipment, refrigeration units, loading and unloading
        lifts, well drilling, farming, battery charging , or is required for proper functioning of
        other equipment that is part of the vehicle.
     D. Vehicle idling is necessary for repair or inspection of the vehicle.
     E. The health or safety of a driver or passenger, including service animals, requires
        the vehicle to idle. This exception also includes idling needed to operate windrn,iv
        defrosters and other equipment necessary to promote safe driving conditions.
     F. Vehicle idling is necessary for efficient operations of a turbo-charged heavy duty
        vehicle (e.g ., buses) or to operate a vehicle within manufacturer's operating
        requirements. This includes building air pressure in air brake systems, among
        other requirements.

Vehicles idling under these exceptions should not violate Utah State Code, 41-6a-1403,
which prohibits the idling of an unattended vehicle.

9-10-2 Idling On Public And Private Property
Section 9-10-1 may only be enforced when the idling vehicle is found on:
   A. Public property, or
   B. Private property that is open to the public unless the private property owner:

           1. Has a private business that has a drive-through service as a component of
              the private property owner's business operation and posts a sign provided
              by or acceptable to Park City informing its customers and the public of
              Park City's time limit of one minute for idling vehicle engines; or
           2. Adopts an idle reduction education policy approved by Park City and posts
              signage.

9-10-3 Safety Of Law Enforcement Officers
Section 9-10-1 shall be enforced in such a manner as to provide for the utmost safety of
the law enforcement officers or designees who enforce it. After receiving three one
warning citations, violators shall pay a penalty in an amount set forth for general parking
violations in the Fee Resolution .
