Ordinance No. 2020-09

  AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE LAND MANAGEMENT CODE OF PARK CITY,
UTAH, AMENDING MASTER PLANNED DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS, SECTION
   15-6-5; AND MASTER PLANNED AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT,
                           SECTION 15-6-7.

       WHEREAS, the Land Management Code was adopted by the City Council of Park
City, Utah to promote the health, safety and welfare of the residents, visitors, and property
owners of Park City; and

       WHEREAS, the Land Management Code implements the goals, objectives and
policies of the Park City General Plan to maintain the quality of life and experiences for its
residents and visitors and to increase affordable housing opportunities and associated
services for the workforce of Park City; and

        WHEREAS, the City reviews the Land Management Code on a regular basis and
identifies necessary amendments to address planning and zoning issues that have come
up; to address specific LMC issues raised by Staff, Planning Commission, and City
Council; and to align the Code with the Council's goals; and

       W_HEREAS, Pa[k Cjt¥_bas an_intemst in_craatiog_a diYer:sity of psimacy housing
opportunities to address the changing needs of residents and finds incentives for
affordable housing developments essential to the City's long term community well-being;
and

      WHEREAS, these proposed Land Management Code (LMC) amendments were
reviewed for consistency with the adopted Park City General Plan; and

       WHEREAS, the Park City General Plan includes Goal 7 that states, "Create a
diversity of primary housing opportunities to address the changing needs of residents ."
Goal 8 states, "Increase affordable housing opportunities and associated services for the
workforce of Park City." and Community Planning Strategy 8.4 states "Update incentives
for density bonuses for affordable housing developments to include moderate and mixed
income housing."; and

       WHEREAS, Park City has an interest in developing and incentivizing private sector
development of affordable housing within City Limits; and the purpose of the master
planned Affordable Housing Development is to promote housing for a diversity of income
groups by providing Dwelling Units for rent or for sale in a price range affordable by
families in the low-to-moderate income range; and

        WHEREAS, the Planning Commission duly noticed and conducted a public hearing
at the regularly scheduled meeting on January 8, 2020 and forwarded a unanimou~
positive recommendation to City Council; and                   ·

       WHEREAS, the City Council duly noticed and conducted a public hearing at its
regularly scheduled meeting on January 16, 2020 and January 30, 2020; and
       WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the residents and visitors of Park City, Utah
to amend the Land Management Code to be consistent with the values and goals of the
Park City General Plan and the Park City Council ; to protect health and safety and
maintain the quality of life for its residents and visitors; and to create a diversity of housing
options for all income levels.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Park City, Utah as
follows :

      SECTION 1. APPROVAL OF AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 15 - Land Management
Code Chapter 15-6-5 Master Planned Development Requirements. The recitals above are
incorporated herein as findings of fact. Chapter 15-6-5 of the Land Management Code of
Park City is hereby amended as red lined in Exhibit A.

      SECTION 2. APPROVAL OF AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 15 - Land Management
Code Chapter 15-6-7 Master Planned Affordable Housing Developments. The recitals
above are incorporated herein as findings of fact. Chapter 15-6-7 of the Land Management
Code of Park City is hereby amended as redlined in Exhibit B.

       SECTION 3. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be effective upon
pul31icatien.

       PASSED AND ADOPTED this 30th day of January, 2020.


                                                    PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
                                                                            . ?

       Attest:
                                                    ·. A~~=:.                         Mayor -




       Approved as to form:



     /~W::e, ~unsel
Exhibits
Exhibit A - LMC § 15-6-5 Master Planned Development Requirements
Exhibit B - LMC § 15-6-7 Master Planned Affordable Housing Development
Exhibit A - LMC § 15-6-5 Master Planned Developments

15-6-5 MPD Requirements
All Master Planned Developments shall contain the following minimum requirements. Many of the
requirements and standards will have to be increased in order for the Planning Commission to make
the necessary findings to approve the Master Planned Development.
( ... )
C. SETBACKS.
      1. The minimum Setback around the exterior boundary of an MPD shall be twenty five feet
         (25') for Parcels one (1) greater than two (2) acre§ or larger in size. The Planning
         Commission may decrease the required perimeter Setback from twenty five feet (25') for
         MPD applications one (1) greater than two (2) acre§ or larger to the zone required Setback if
         it is necessary to provide desired architectural interest and variation.
      2. For parcels less greater than one (1) two (2) acre§ in size and located inside the HRM, HR-1,
         HR-2, HR-L, HRC, and HCB Districts, the minimum Setback around the exterior boundary
         of an MPD shall be determined by the Planning Commission in order to remain consistent
         with the contextual streetscape of adjacent Structures.
      3. For parcels two (2) acres or less in size, the minimum exterior boundary Setbacks shall be
         Zone Required Setbacks. For parcels less greater than one (1) two (2) acre§ in size and
         located outside of the H~4, HR 1, HR 2, HR L, HRC and HCB, the minimum Setback
         around the exterior boundiify of an MPD shalToo determinedl}y the PfaruiingGomniis ssiOn
         Commission and shall be no less than the zone required Setback. ·
      4. In all MPDs, for either the perimeter setbacks or the setbacks within the project, the
         Planning Commission may increase Setbacks to retain existing Significant Vegetation or
         natural features or to create an adequate buffer to adjacent Uses, or to meet historic
         Compatibility requirements.
      5. The Planning Commission may reduce Setbacks within the project boundary, but not
         perimeter Setbacks, from those otherwise required in the zone to match an abutting zone
         Setback, provided the project meets minimum Uniform Building Code and Fire Code
         requirements, does not increase project Density, maintains the general character of the
         surrounding neighborhood in terms of mass, scale and spacing between houses, and meets
         open space criteria set forth in Section 15-6-5(D).

 ( ... )
E. OFF-STREET PARKING.
     1. The number of Off-Street Parking Spaces in each Master Planned Development shall not
        be less than the requirements of this code, except that the Planning Commission may
        increase or decrease the required number of Off-Street Parking Spaces based upon a
        parking analysis submitted by the Applicant at the time ofMPD submittal. The parking
        analysis shall contain, at a minimum, the following information:
        a. The proposed number of vehicles required by the occupants of the project based
            upon the proposed Use and occupancy.
        b. A parking comparison of projects of similar size with similar occupancy type to
            verify the demand for occupancy parking.
        c. Parking needs for non-dwelling Uses, including traffic attracted to Commercial Uses
            from Off-Site.
               d. An analysis of time periods of Use for each of the Uses in the project and
                  opportunities for Shared Parking by different Uses. This shall be considered only
                  when there is Guarantee by Use covenant and deed restriction.
               e. A plan to discourage the Use of motorized vehicles and encourage other forms of
                  transportation.
               f. Provisions for overflow parking during peak periods.
               g. An evaluation of potential adverse impacts of the proposed parking reduction and
                  density increase, if any.. upon the surrounding neighborhood and conditions of
                  approval to mitigate such impacts.

            The Planning Department shall review the parking analysis and provide a recommendation
            to the Commission. The Commission shall make a finding during review of the MPD as to
            whether or not the parking analysis supports a determination to increase or decrease the
          . required number of Parking Spaces.

           2. The Planning Commission may permit an Applicant to pay an in-lieu parking fee in
              consideration for required on-site parking provided that the Planning Commission
              determines that:
              a. Payment in-lieu of the on-Site parking requirement will prevent a loss of significant
                  open space, yard Area, and/or public amenities and gathering Areas;
              b. Payment in-lieu of the on-Site parking requirement will result in preservation and
                  rehabilitation-of signi-fie-ant Historic-Structures or redevelopment -of S-truetures-and
                  Sites;
              c. Payment in-lieu of the on-Site parking requirement will not result in an increase
                  project Density or intensity of Use; and
              d. The project is located on a public transit route or is within three (3) blocks of a
                  municipal bus stop.
              e. The payment in-lieu fee for the required parking shall be subject to the provisions in
                  the Park City Municipal Code Section 11-12-16 and the fee set forth in the current
                  Fee Resolution, as amended.


( ... )
HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 02-07 on 512312002
Amended by Ord. 04-08 on 31412004
Amended by Ord. 06-22 on 412712006
Amended by Ord. 09-10 on 31512009
Amended by Ord. 10-14 on 411512010
Amended by Ord. 11-05 on 112712011
Amended by Ord. 11-12 on 313112011
Amended by Ord. 13-23 on 711112013
Amended by Ord. 15-36 on 612512015
Amended by Ord. 2016-44 on 911512016
Amended by Ord. 2017-46 on 811712017
Exhibit B - LMC § 15-6-7 Master Planned Affordable Housing Development

15-6-7 MASTER PLANNED AFFORDABLE HOUSING DEVELOPMENT

A. PURPOSE. The purpose of the master planned Affordable Housing Development is to promote
   housing for a diversity of income groups by providing Dwelling Units for rent or for sale in a
   price range affordable by families in the low-to-moderate income range. This may be achieved
   by encouraging the private sector to develop Affordable Housing.

   Master Planned Developments, which are one hundred percent ( 100%) Affordable Housing, as
   defined by the housing resolution in effect at the time of Application, would be considered for a
   Density incentive greater than that normally allowed under the applicable Zoning District and
   Master Planned Development regulations with the intent of encouraging quality Development of
   permanent rental and permanent Owner-occupied housing stock for low and moderate income
   families within the Park City Area.

B. RENTAL OR SALES PROGRAM. If a Developer seeks to exercise the increased Density
   allowance incentive by providing an Affordable Housing project, the Developer must agree to
   follow the guidelines and restrictions set forth by the Housing Authority in the adopted
   Affordable Housing resolution in effect at the time of Application.

C. M-1-XED-RE-N-l'-A-L-AND OWN-ER/ OCGUP-A-NT PR-GJEG-TS. When projects are -ap_pnwed
   that comprise both rental and Owner/occupant Dwelling Units, the combination and phasing of
   the Development shall be specifically approved by the reviewing agency and become a
   condition of project approval. A permanent rental housing unit is one which is subject to a
   binding agreement with the Park City Housing Authority.

D. MPD REQUIREMENTS. All of the MPD requirements and findings of this section shall apply
   to Affordable Housing MPD projects.

E. DENSITY BONUS. The reviewing agency may increase the allowable Density to a maximum
   of twenty (20) Unit Equivalents per acre. The Unit Equivalent formula applies.

F. PARKING OFF-STREET PARKING. Off Street parking will be required at a rate of one (l)
   space per Bedroom.
   ( 1.) The number of Off-Street Parking Spaces in each Master Planned Affordable Housing
         Development shall not be less than the requirements of this Code, except that the Plam.ning
         Commission may increase or decrease the required number of Off-Street Parking Spaces
         based upon a parking analysis submitted by the Applicant at the time of MPD submittal. The
         parking analysis shaU contain, at a minimum, the following information:
         a. The proposed number of vehicles required by the occupants of the project based upon
             the proposed Use and occupancy.
         b . A parking comparison of projects of similar size with similar occupancy type to verify
             the demand for occupancy parking.
         c. Parking needs for non-dwelling Uses, including traffic attracted to Commercial Uses
             from Off-Site.
d. An analysis of time periods of Use for each of the Uses in the project and opportunities
   for Shared Parking by different Uses. This shall be considered only when there is
   Guarantee by Use covenant and deed restriction.
e. A plan to discourage the Use of motorized vehicles and encourage other forms of
   transportation.
f. Provisions for overflow parking during peak periods.
g. An evaluation of potential adverse impacts of the proposed parking reduction and
   density increase, if any, upon the surrounding neighborhood and conditions of approval
   to mitigate such impacts.

The Planning Department shall review the parking analysis and provide a recommendation
to the Commission. The Commission shall make a finding during review of the affordable
MPD as to·whether or not the parking analysis supports a determination to increase or
decrease the required number of Parking Spaces.

(2) The Planning Commission may permit an Applicant to pay an in-lieu parking fee in
    consideration for required on-site parking provided that the Planning Commission
    determines that:
    a. Payment in-lieu of the on-Site parking requirement will prevent a loss of significant
        open space, yard Area, and/or public amenities and gathering Areas;
    b. Payment in-lieu of the on-Site parking requirement will result in preservation and
        rehabilitation of significant Historic Structures or redevelopment of Strucmres and
        Sites;
    c. Payment in-lieu of the on-Site parking requirement will not result in an increase
        project Density or intensity of Use; and
    d. The project is located on a public transit route or is within three (3) blocks of a
        municipal bus stop.
    e. The payment in-lieu fee for the required parking shall be subject to the provisions in
        the Park City Municipal Code Section 11-12-16 and the fee set forth in the current
        Fee Resolution, as amended.

G. OPEN SPACE. All Master Planned Affordable Housing Developments shall contain a A
minimum of twenty percent (20%) Open Space as defined in LMC Chapter 15-15. filly
percent (50%) of the Parcel shall be retained or developed as op ea space. l'·L. reduction in the
percentage of open space, to net less than forty percent (40%), may be granted upoa a
finding by the Planning Commission that additional on or Gff-On-Site amenities, such as
playgrounds, trails, recreation facilities, bus shelters, significant landscaping, or other
amenities are encouraged. will be provided above any that are required. Project open space
may be utilized for project amenities,, such as tennis courts, Buildings not reql:lirmg a
Building Permit, path-1.vays,, plazas, and similar Uses. Open sSpace may not be utilized for
Streets, roads, or Parking Areas.


 The Planning Commission may decrease the required Open Space for projects located
 within 300 feet (300 ") of a Public Use, including, but not limited to a pubhc park, Recreation
 Open Space, public trail, public school, or Public Recreation Facilities.
   H. RENT AL RESTRICTIONS. The provisions of the moderate income housing exception
      shall not prohibit the monthly rental of an individually owned unit. However, Nightly
      Rentals or timesharing shall not be permitted within Developments using this exception.
      Monthly rental of individually owned units shall comply with the guidelines and restrictions
      set forth by the Housing Authority as stated in the adopted Affordable Housing resolution in
      effect at the time of Application.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 02-07 on 512312002
Amended by Ord. 06-22 on 412712006
Amended by Ord. 09-10 on 31512009
