Ordinance 2020-14

  AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE LAND MANAGEMENT CODE OF PARK CITY,
       UTAH, AMENDING CHAPTER 15-11 HISTORIC PRESERVATION.

      WHEREAS, the Land Management Code was adopted by the City Council of
Park City, Utah to promote the health, safety and welfare of the residents, visitors, and
property owners of Park City; and

        WHEREAS, the Land Management Code implements the goals, objectives and
policies of the Park City General Plan to maintain the quality of life and experiences for
its residents and visitors and to preserve the community's unique character and values;
and

       WHEREAS, the proposed Land Management Code (LMC) amendments enhance
the design standards to maintain aesthetic experience of Park City; and

      WHEREAS , these proposed Land Management Code (LMC) amendments were
reviewed for consistency with the Park City General Plan; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the proposed changes to the Land
Management Code are necessary to supplement existing zoning regulations to protect
Historic structures and the economic investment by owners of similarly situated property
(currently Historic);

       WHEREAS, Park City was originally developed as a mining community and
much of the City's unique cultural identity is based on the historic character of its mining
era buildings; and

      WHEREAS, the Historic buildings are among the City's most important cultural,
educational, and economic assets;

     WHEREAS, the demolition and significant alteration of Historic buildings would
permanently alter the character of a neighborhood, community and City;

      WHEREAS, the Historic Preservation Board duly noticed and conducted public
hearings at the regularly scheduled meetings on February 5, 2020 and forwarded a
recommendation to Planning Commission and City Council; and

      WHEREAS, the Planning Commission duly noticed and conducted public
hearings at the regularly scheduled meetings on February 12, 2020 and forwarded a
recommendation to City Council; and

       WHEREAS, the City Council duly noticed and conducted a public hearing at its
regularly scheduled meeting on February 27, 2020; and
       WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the residents of Park City, Utah to amend
the Land Management Code to be consistent with the values and goals of the Park City
General Plan and the Park City Council; to protect health and safety and maintain the
quality of life for its residents and visitors; to preserve and protect the vitality, activity
and success of the ski resort base area; to ensure compatible development; and to
preserve the community's unique character.

       NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Park City, Utah as
follows:

      SECTION 1. APPROVAL OF AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 15 - LAND
MANAGEMENT CODE CHAPTER 15-11 HISTORIC PRESERVATION. The recitals
above are incorporated herein as findings of fact. Chapters 15-11 of the Land
Management Code of Park City are hereby amended as redlined in Exhibit A.


       SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be effective upon
publication .

                             PASSED AND ADOPTED this 2yth day of February, 2020

                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION

                               ~Beerrn~'5
                             Andy    ~=
Attest:




Approved as to form :




Exhibits
Exhibit 1 - LMC §15-11 -12.5 Historic Preservation Board Review for Material
                             Deconstruction
Exhibit 1 - LMC §15-11-12.5 Historic Preservation Board Review for Material
           Deconstruction

15-11-12.5 Historic Preservation Board Review For Material Deconstruction
A. {The Historic Presee1-ation Board shall review and approve, approve Vl-ith conditions,
   or deny,} All Applications for Material Deconstruction involving any Building(s) (main,
   attached, detached, or public, Accessory Buildings and/or Structures designated to
   the Historic Sites Inventory as Landmark or Significant shall be subject to review and
   approval, approval with conditions, or denied by the following Review Authorities:
   1. The Planning Director or his/her designee shall review the following:
      a.           Routine Maintenance, including, but not limited to:
         i. Re-roof;
         ii. Chimney repair;
         iii. Foundation repair; or
         iv. Replacement or repair of the following:
              ( 1)    Historic wood features;
              (2)    Door or Window replacement; and
              (3)     Historic Site Features.
      b.           Removing or Replacing Non-Historic Features.
   2. The Historic Preservation Board shall review the following:
      a.           Removal of Historic Material to Accommodate New additions, New
      Construction, or Structural Upgrades.

Prior to issuance of a Building Permit for any Material Deconstruction work, the Review
Authority [Historic Preservation Board] shall review the proposed plans for compliance
with the Land Management Code 15-13 Design Guidelines For Historic Districts And
Historic Sites.

{Planning staff shall .re•liew Material Deconstruction appl-ications of interior elements that
(1) ha•lfJ no impact on the exterior of the structure; or (2) are not structural in nature; or
(3) the scope of work is limited to exploratory demolition.}

B. Material Deconstruction Reviews are subject to the following re view process:

   1. COMPLETE APPLICATION. The Owner and/or Applicant for any Property shall
      be required to submit a Historic Preservation Board Review For Material
      Deconstruction for proposed work requiring a Building Permit in order to
      complete the work.
   2. NOTICE. Upon receipt of a Complete Application, but prior to taking action on
      any Historic Preservation Board Review for Material Deconstruction application,
      the Planning staff shall provide notice pursuant to Section 15-1-12 and 15-1-21 of
      this Code.
   3. PUBLIC HEARING AND DECISION. Following the fourteen (14) day public
      notice period noted in Section 15-1-21 of this Code, the Historic Preservation
      Board and/or the Planning Director or his/her designee shall hold a public
       hearing and make written findings, conclusions of Jaw, and conditions of approval
       or reasons for denial, supporting the decision sand shall provide the Owner
       and/or Applicant with a copy.

HISTORY
Adopted by Ord. 02-07 on 512312002
Amended by Ord. 03-34 on 711012003
Amended by Ord. 15-53 on 1211712015
Amended by Ord. 16-15 on 312412016
