DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




        Ordinance 2020-44

        AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF PARK CITY, UTAH, CHAPTER
        13 WATER AND STORMWATER CODE BY ADDING SECTION 13-4 REGULATION AND
        ENFORCEMENT OF STORMWATER DISCHARGES ASSOCIATED WITH CONSTRUCTION
        ACTIVITIES

               WHEREAS, the Municipal Code was adopted by the City Council of Park City, Utah to
        promote the health, safety and welfare of the residents, visitors, and property owners of Park
        City; and

                WHEREAS, the Municipal Code implements the goals, objectives and policies of the
        Park City General Plan to maintain the quality of life and experiences for its residents and
        visitors; and to preserve the community’s unique character and values; and

               WHEREAS, the City owns and operates a stormwater-collection system which has been
        developed over many years and consists of a network of natural conveyances, manmade
        structures, and conduits that collect, control, and route stormwater runoff; and

              WHEREAS, pursuant to the Federal Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. Chapter 26, the U.S.
        Environmental Protection agency (EPA) has established rules and regulations setting for the
        National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit requirements for municipal stormwater
        discharges (Phase II Permit Program);

               WHEREAS, the State of Utah, through its Department of Environmental Quality, has
        been delegated by EPA to administer the Phase II Permit Program and has adopted state
        rules and regulation implementing the Phase II Permit Program; and

                WHEREAS, the City is required, among other things, to implement a stormwater-
        management program and associated ordinance to (1) control the contribution of pollutants to
        the stormwater system associated with industrial sites, construction sites, and other activities
        within the City; (2) prohibit illicit discharges of pollutants into the stormwater-collection system,
        including spills, dumping, or disposal of materials other than stormwater; (3) promote
        implementation and maintenance of long-term stormwater controls on development sites; (4)
        educate City residents and businesses about the stormwater program; and (5) enforce
        compliance with the program and ordinance; and

               WHEREAS, the Council finds that inadequate management of the quantity and quality
        of stormwater runoff causes flooding and property damage; carries concentrations of heavy
        metals, oils, and toxic materials into receiving and ground waters; and degrades the integrity of
        the integrity of City neighborhoods and infrastructure; and

               WHEREAS, the Council finds that such are hazards and pose a significant risk to public
        health, safety, and welfare; and




                                                             1
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




              WHEREAS, the City Council conducted a public hearing at its regularly scheduled
        meeting on September 17, 2020; and

               WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the residents of Park City, Utah to the amend the
        Municipal Code to be consistent with the Federal and State law and to be consistent with the
        values and identified goals of the Park City community and City Council to protect health and
        safety, maintain the quality of life for its residents, preserve and protect the residential
        neighborhoods, and preserve the community’s unique character.

               NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Park City, Utah as
        follows:

                SECTION 1. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 13 – Water and Stormwater Code. The
        recitals above are incorporated herein as findings of fact. Chapter 13-4 of the Water And
        Stormwater Code of Park City is hereby amended as attached (see Attachment A).

                  SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be effective upon publication.

                                         PASSED AND ADOPTED this 17th day of September, 2020


                                                                 PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                                 _________________________________
                                                                            Andy Beerman, Mayor
        Attest:


        ___________________________
        Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder


        Approved as to form:


        __________________________
        City Attorney’s Office




                                                             2
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




                        ATTACHMENT A - AN ORDINANCE PROVIDING FOR THE
                    REGULATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF STORM WATER DISCHARGES
                            ASSOCIATED WITH CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES


                                                    TABLE OF CONTENTS

                    Section 1. Purpose

                    Section 2. Definitions

                    Section 3. Prohibition on Unpermitted Land Disturbance

                    Section 4. Land Disturbance Permit

                    Section 5. Proper Operation and Maintenance

                    Section 6. Inspection and Entry

                    Section 7. Revocation or Suspension of Land Disturbance Permit

                    Section 8. Penalties

                    Section 9. Compliance with Federal and State Law

                    Section 10. Perimeter Control Exemptions

                    Section 11. Severability

                    Section 12. Effective Date




                                                             3
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




            13-4-1. Purpose

            The purpose of this Chapter is to prevent the discharge by storm water runoff of
            sediment and other pollutants from land disturbance activities such as excavating,
            grading, filling, or grubbing. These activities are a major source of pollution to
            waterways and storm drain systems located within Park City and the surrounding area.
            Storm water runoff carries sediment from sites where these activities occur into nearby
            waterways, lakes, canals, irrigation systems, and storm drain systems. Such sediment
            clogs storm drain systems, pollutes the water in the streams and lakes, and damages
            wildlife habitat and water quality.

            13-4-2. Definitions

            For the purpose of this Chapter, the definitions listed hereunder shall be construed as
            specified in this section.
                A. ALTERNATIVE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). BMPs that do not
                     conform to BMP Standards identified by the City Engineer. The City Engineer may, in
                     his discretion, approve a SWPPP containing alternative BMPs if the alternative BMPs
                     will satisfy the objectives of this Chapter.
                B. BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities,
                   prohibitions of practices, maintenance procedures, and other management
                   practices to prevent or reduce the pollution of waters of the City. BMPs also
                   include treatment requirements, operating procedures, and practices to control
                   site runoff, off-site vehicular tracking of Pollutants, spillage or leaks, sludge or
                   waste disposal, or drainage from raw material storage.
                C. BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES STANDARDS (BMP Standards). In
                   order to provide uniform BMPs and to facilitate the issuance of Land
                   Disturbance Permits, the City Engineer may identify for certain types of land
                   Disturbance Activities certain sets of BMPs that most effectively or practicably
                   mitigate the discharge of pollutants due to storm water. These BMP Standards
                   may be included in any document that is maintained by the City Engineer and
                   relates to engineering standards to facilitate the issuance of Land Disturbance
                   Permits.
                D. COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION. The initial disturbance of soils
                   associated with clearing, Grading or Excavating activities or other construction
                   activities, excluding activities necessary to install erosion Control Measures
                   under a Land Disturbance Permit.
                E. COMMON PLAN PERMIT. A permit issued through the Utah State
                   Department of Environment Quality. This permit may be commonly referred to
                   as a Notice of Intent or NOI.
                F. CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PERMIT. A Permit issued through the Utah
                   State Department of Environment Quality. This permit may be commonly
                   referred to as a Notice of Intent or NOI.
                G. CONTROL MEASURE. Any Best Management Practice or other method used
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




                   to prevent or reduce the discharge of Pollutants.
                H. EXCAVATION. The mechanical removal of earth material.
                I. FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.
                J. FINAL STABILIZATION. A point in time at which all Land Disturbance
                   Activities at the site have been completed, and a uniform (e.g. evenly
                   distributed, without large bare areas) perennial vegetative cover with a density
                   of 70% of the native background vegetative cover for the area has been
                   established on all unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent structures,
                   or equivalent permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of rip rap,
                   gabions, or geotextiles) have been employed. In some parts of the City,
                   background native vegetation will cover less than 100% of the ground (e.g. arid
                   areas). Establishing at least 70% of the natural cover of native vegetation meets
                   the vegetative cover criteria for final stabilization. For example, if the native
                   vegetation covers 50% of the ground, 70% of 50% would require 35% cover for
                   final stabilization.
                K. GRADING. “Grading” as used in this Chapter is defined in Section 15-15-1.
                L. GRUBBING. “Grubbing” as used in this Chapter is defined in Section 15-15-1.
                M. LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Any Excavation, Grading, placement of
                   Fill, or Grubbing.
                N. LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT. A permit issued by the City Engineer
                   authorizing the permittee to engage in specific Land Disturbance Activities. The
                   permit may require the implementation of a SWPPP or any other conditions to
                   mitigate the discharge of Pollutants.
                O. NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI). A Construction General Permit or Common Plan
                   Permit.
                P. PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, public utility,
                   company or body politic, including Park City Municipal Corporation and any
                   agency of the State of Utah and the United States Government.
                Q. POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
                   garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
                   radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
                   dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste discharged into water.
                R. SITE. Any lot or parcel of land or contiguous combination thereof, under the
                   same ownership, where a Land Disturbance Activity is performed or permitted.
                S. STORM WATER. Storm water runoff, snow melt runoff, and surface runoff or
                   drainage.
                T. STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan for
                   the mitigation of discharge of Pollutants from a Site, conforming to BMP
                   Standards or identifying Alternative BMPs. At a minimum, the SWPPP shall
                   have: a drawing of the location of the intended Land Disturbance Activity; the
                   pertinent dimensions thereof; and the layout, typical sections, and details of the
                   Control Measures to be used.



                                                             5
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




            13-4-3. Prohibition on Unpermitted Land Disturbance Activities

                A. General Prohibition on Unpermitted Land Disturbance Activities
                   No Person shall make or cause to occur any Land Disturbance Activity except
                   in compliance with a Land Disturbance Permit issued under Section 13-4-4.
                B. Emergency Conditions
                   An emergency Land Disturbance Activity may be made without a Land Disturbance
                   Permit if the reason for the excavation or grading or placement fill is to prevent imminent
                   loss of life or damage to property. In such emergency situations, the Person making the
                   Land Disturbance Activity shall contact the City Engineer’s Office to secure a Land
                   Disturbance Permit at the earliest possible time, but in no case later than the first working
                   day following the emergency work. None of the provisions of this Chapter are waived for
                   emergency situations except for the prior permit requirement.
                C. Exemptions
                   The following activities are exempt from the requirements of this Chapter:
                   (1) actions by a public agency or utility, Park City, or other governmental agency to
                       remove or alleviate an emergency condition, restore utility service, or reopen to
                       traffic a public thoroughfare;
                   (2) actions by any Person if the City determines and documents in writing that the actions
                       are necessary to remove or alleviate an emergency condition, restore utility service, or
                       reopen to traffic a public thoroughfare;
                   (3) landscape maintenance activities on fully developed property; or
                   (4) bona fide agricultural and farming operations which constitute the principle use of
                       any parcel or tract of ground located in the City and which meet the requirements of
                       the zoning for that portion of the City in which the operation is located.


            13-4-4. Land Disturbance Permit
                A. Requirements
                      1. The City Engineer may issue a Land Disturbance Permit, in a form to be
                          determined by the City Engineer, for the discharge of Pollutants associated with
                          Land Disturbance Activities upon condition that such discharge will meet either:
                          (a) any Best Management Practices Standards (BMP Standards) identified by the
                          City Engineer, or (b) such conditions as the City Engineer determines are
                          necessary to fulfill the requirements of this Chapter. A Land Disturbance Permit
                          shall be required for any project that requires a permit under any other ordinance,
                          development code, or building permit issued by Park City that includes any Land
                          Disturbance Activity. Where required by state law, City permits shall require the
                          submission of a Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit and NOI
                          from the State of Utah Division of Water Quality.
                      2. The permit holder shall comply with all provisions of the required permits at all
                          times.



                                                             6
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




               B. Applications
                  Applications shall be made using permit forms published by the City Engineer and
                  completed by the owner of the property on which the work is being done. Applications
                  shall be made, in the case of work within a public right-of-way, by the firm, public utility,
                  public agency or corporation actually doing the work, or in the case of work within a
                  private road or private road right-of-way, by the owner of the road or association
                  responsible for the maintenance of the road. Applications for all permits shall be made to
                  the City Engineer’s office and state the purpose therefore; the person, firm, public utility,
                  or corporation doing the actual work; and the name of the person, firm, public utility, or
                  corporation for whom or by which the work is being done. The application shall contain:
                  1. an agreement that the applicant will comply with all ordinances and laws of Park
                      City, the State of Utah, and the Federal Government relating to the work to be done;
                  2. an agreement that the applicant shall indemnify the City for any loss, liability, or
                      damage that may result from or because of the making, placement, existence, or
                      manner of guarding or constructing any such Land Disturbance Activity; and
                  3. either:
                          a. a copy of the applicant’s Construction General Permit or Common Plan
                              Permit, if applicable, or
                          b. a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).
            C. Fees
            The City Council may adopt a review and inspection fee to provide for the requirements of this
            Chapter. Such fee, if adopted, shall accompany each application for a permit.

            D. Review and Approval of Applications

            1.       The City Engineer or his designee will review each application for a Land Disturbance
                     Permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this Chapter. The City
                     Engineer may, in his discretion, approve a SWPPP containing Alternative BMPs. Within
                     fifteen (15) days after receiving an application, the City Engineer shall provide one of the
                     following responses in writing:

                     a. Approval of the permit application and issuance of the Land Disturbance Permit;

                     b. Approval of the permit application, subject to such reasonable conditions as may be
                        necessary to substantially secure the objectives of this Chapter, and issuance of the
                        Land Disturbance Permit subject to these conditions; or

                     c. Denial of the permit application, indicating the reason(s) for the denial.

            2.       If the City Engineer has granted conditional approval of the permit, the applicant shall
                     submit a revised plan that conforms to the conditions established by the City Engineer.
                     However, the applicant shall be allowed to proceed with his land disturbance activities so
                     long as those activities conform to the conditions established by the City Engineer


                                                              7
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




            3.       No development plans will be released until the Land Disturbance Permit has been
                     approved and the applicant has paid in full all plan review and inspection fees.

            E. Content of Permit
            The Land Disturbance Permit shall contain all elements required under the SWPPP or the most
            current Construction General Permit or Common Plan Permit, whichever is applicable to the site.
            The Land Disturbance Permit may require more than the minimum control requirements
            specified within the SWPPP or Construction General Permit or Common Plan Permit if
            hydrologic, geologic, or topographic conditions warrant, or if unique flooding, stream channel
            erosion, or water quality problems exist upstream or downstream from a proposed project.

            F. Appeals
            An applicant for a Land Disturbance Permit whose application has been denied or approved with
            conditions may appeal the denied or imposed conditions in the same manner as other impact
            fees, pursuant to Section 11-13-5.


            13-4-5. Proper Operation and Maintenance

                 A. Installation of Control Measures
                    The permittee shall install any Control Measures required by the Land
                    Disturbance Permit before commencing any construction activities on the site to
                    which the Land Disturbance Permit applies, or at such time as indicated on the
                    Land Disturbance Permit. The Control Measures shall be properly installed and
                    maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s specifications and good
                    engineering practices. Prior to commencing other construction activities, the
                    permittee shall contact the Park City Building Department to schedule an
                    inspection of the installed Control Measures. This inspection may be performed
                    as part of a Limits of Disturbance inspection under Sections 15-7.3-2(J), 15-7.3-
                    3(H), or 11-15-4(K), if any such inspection is required for the same project.
                 B. Maintenance of Control Measures
                    The permittee shall maintain such Control Measures on the site in good condition
                    until the disturbed areas have achieved Final Stabilization, and the measures are
                    no longer necessary to prevent or minimize, to the maximum extent practicable,
                    the discharge of sediment, debris, and other Pollutants from the site by Storm
                    Water runoff or vehicular tracking. Once any temporary Control Measures have
                    been deemed no longer necessary, or once the site is finally stabilized, the
                    temporary Control Measures shall be removed from the site in a timely manner.
                 C. Removal of Control Measures
                    Upon completion of Land Disturbance Activities under the Land Disturbance
                    Permit, the owner shall request an inspection from the City Engineer. Once the
                    City inspector deems the site stabilized, the owner shall remove in a timely
                    manner any temporary Control Measures.



                                                             8
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




            13-4-6. Inspection and Entry

            A. The permittee shall allow authorized employees and representatives of Park City,
               State of Utah Division of Water Quality, and the United States Environmental
               Protection Agency to enter the site to which the Land Disturbance Permit applies
               and to inspect the temporary and permanent Control Measures installed and
               maintained by the permittee or property owner. Such entry and inspection may be
               made at any time during or a reasonable time after construction. If permanent
               Control Measures are required, such entry and inspection may be made in
               perpetuity.
            B. Inspections During Construction
                1. For construction sites requiring a Construction General Permit or Common Plan
                   Permit, inspection frequency and maintenance and repair consistent with BMPs
                   are as defined in such permit. Sites deemed high priority by the City shall also
                   inspected by the owner after every rainfall event in accordance with the permit.
                2. All other construction sites shall at a minimum conduct a bi-weekly visual
                   inspection of BMPs to ensure they are in good condition. Disturbed areas and
                   areas used for storage of materials exposed to precipitation shall be inspected
                   for evidence of, or the potential for, pollutants entering a drainage system.
                3. Repair to BMPs shall be made in accordance with the Land Disturbance Permit
                   or as noted in the inspection report, whichever is more stringent.

            13-4-7. Revocation or Suspension of Land Disturbance Permit.

            A. Reasons for Revocation or Suspension
               The City Engineer or his designee may revoke or suspend a Land Disturbance
               Permit upon the occurrence of any of the following:
                     a. failure of the permittee to comply with any condition of the Land Disturbance
                        Permit;
                     b. failure of the permittee to comply with any provision of this Chapter or any
                        other applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation; or
                   c. a determination by the City Engineer that the Control Measures implemented
                      by the permittee pursuant to the Land Disturbance Permit are inadequate to
                      prevent or minimize, to the maximum extent practicable, the discharge of
                      sediment, debris or other Pollutants from the construction site by Storm Water
                      runoff or vehicular tracking.
                Revocation or suspension of a Land Disturbance Permit shall suspend all related
                work on the subject property(ies).
            B. Notice
               Before revoking or suspending a Land Disturbance Permit, Park City shall mail the
               permittee written notice of non-compliance or personally serve notice to the person



                                                             9
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




                responsible for maintaining the erosion control and sediment control measures. The
                notice shall state the nature and location of the non-compliance and shall specify
                what action is required for the permittee to avoid revocation or suspension of the
                permit, which in the absence of exceptional circumstances shall not be less than 7
                working days or more than 10 working days. The notice shall be sent by certified
                mail to the address listed for the permittee on the application or delivered in person
                to the responsible party on site.
            C. Exceptional Circumstances
               For the purposes of this Chapter, exceptional circumstances include, but are not
               limited to, situations which involve risk of injury to persons, damage to storm drain
               facilities, imminent release of Pollutants to waterways, or damage to other property.
               Park City may take any action deemed necessary to alleviate any such exceptional
               circumstances defined above and may bill the permittee, property owner, developer,
               or contractor responsible for creating the exceptional circumstances for the cost of
               alleviating said circumstance.
            D. Stop Work Order
                A stop work order on all construction activity on the site may be issued upon the
                discovery of any condition that the City Engineer or his appointed designee
                determines is in violation of any portion of the Land Disturbance Permit. No
                construction activity may be commenced or continued on any site for which a permit
                has been revoked or suspended and a stop work order issued until the permit has
                been reinstated or reissued.
            E. Reinstatement
                A Land Disturbance Permit may be reinstated or reissued upon review and approval
                of a written description of the permittee’s proposed actions to bring the Control
                Measures into compliance with all provisions of this Chapter, or upon submission,
                review, and approval of a revised SWPPP.

            13-4-8. Penalties

                A. Criminal Penalties
                   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this Chapter shall be guilty of a Class
                   B misdemeanor and on conviction therefore shall be punished by fine or by imprisonment
                   for not more than six months or by both fine and imprisonment.
                B. Continuing Offenses Deemed Daily Violation
                   In all instances where the violation of this Chapter is a continuing violation, a separate
                   offense shall be deemed committed on each day during or on which the violation occurs
                   or continues.
                C. Civil Penalties
                   In addition to criminal actions, Park City may bring for violations of this Chapter civil
                   actions including injunctions, mandamus, abatement, civil damages, and any other
                   remedies provided by law.
                D. Additional Penalties Provided by State Law and Federal Law



                                                             10
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




                   In addition to municipal penalties, any person violating any provisions of this Chapter
                   may be subject to federal and state penalties, including but not limited to Utah Code § 19-
                   5-115.
                E. Control Measures Undertaken by Park City
                   If a permittee fails to comply with the Land Disturbance Permit, Park City shall, in its
                   discretion, have the right to have Control Measures installed and maintained by City
                   personnel or to hire a private contractor to perform such work at the expense of the
                   permittee, property owner, developer or contractor responsible for such measures. The
                   City may assess said expenses against a bond posted by the permittee.


            13-4-9. Compliance with Federal and State Law

            Nothing contained in this Chapter is intended to relieve any Person from any obligation to
            comply with applicable federal and/or state laws and any other regulations pertaining to clean
            water and/or storm water runoff and erosion control.

            13-4-10. Perimeter Control Exemptions

                A. Purpose
                   Exemptions for silt fence or other perimeter controls are for construction sites
                   where such controls may be ineffectual, excessive, and/or detrimental to nearby
                   water resources and other natural resources.
                B. Definition
                   Certain construction sites may be exempt from installing silt fences or other
                   temporary perimeter controls if the site meets the following criteria.
                C. Criteria
                   All exemptions must be approved by the Park City Engineer and are limited to the
                   following:
                       a. projects where:
                                i. total disturbance is less than 1 acre;
                               ii. a 50 foot wide vegetated buffer exists down gradient from the
                                   disturbed portion(s) of the site;
                              iii. a 100 foot wide vegetated buffer exists down gradient between the
                                   disturbed potions(s) of the site and any live stream or existing
                                   drainage way;
                              iv. the site and vegetated buffer have less than 5% slope (slope must
                                   be documented);
                               v. and the vegetated buffer has at least 70% ground cover;
                       b. linear construction projects such as pipelines or utility work that do not
                           discharge to waterways; or
                       c. Sites bound by natural or man-made features that would prohibit
                           discharge from the Site.

            13-4-11. Severability



                                                             11
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74C4CE19-80BE-4B72-A1C0-883CFF4AC947




            Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Chapter be
            declared unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, the remainder of this
            Chapter shall not be affected thereby.

            13-4-12. Effective Date

            This Chapter shall become effective after publication of such in accordance
            with applicable state law.




                                                             12
