DocuSign Envelope ID: 13F3BB0E-4681-42B8-859D-F0B34101ECF5




       Ordinance 2021-17

       AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF PARK CITY, UTAH, CHAPTER 13
       WATER AND STORMWATER CODE BY ADDING SECTION 13-5 REGULATION AND
       ENFORCEMENT OF STORMWATER DISCHARGES ASSOCIATED WITH POST
       CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES

              WHEREAS, the Municipal Code was adopted by the City Council of Park City, Utah to
       promote the health, safety and welfare of the residents, visitors, and property owners of Park
       City; and

              WHEREAS, the Municipal Code implements the goals, objectives and policies of the Park
       City General Plan to maintain the quality of life and experiences for its residents and visitors; and
       to preserve the community’s unique character and values; and

              WHEREAS, the City owns and operates a stormwater-collection system which has been
       developed over many years and consists of a network of natural conveyances, manmade
       structures, and conduits that collect, control, and route stormwater runoff; and

             WHEREAS, pursuant to the Federal Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. Chapter 26, the U.S.
       Environmental Protection agency (EPA) has established rules and regulations setting for the
       National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit requirements for municipal stormwater
       discharges (Phase II Permit Program);

              WHEREAS, the State of Utah, through its Department of Environmental Quality, has been
       delegated by EPA to administer the Phase II Permit Program and has adopted state rules and
       regulation implementing the Phase II Permit Program; and

               WHEREAS, the City is required, among other things, to implement a stormwater-
       management program and associated ordinance to (1) control the contribution of pollutants to
       the stormwater system associated with industrial sites, construction sites, and other activities
       within the City; (2) prohibit illicit discharges of pollutants into the stormwater-collection system,
       including spills, dumping, or disposal of materials other than stormwater; (3) promote
       implementation and maintenance of long-term stormwater controls on development sites; (4)
       educate City residents and businesses about the stormwater program; and (5) enforce
       compliance with the program and ordinance; and

               WHEREAS, the Council finds that inadequate management of the quantity and quality of
       stormwater runoff causes flooding and property damage; carries concentrations of heavy metals,
       oils, and toxic materials into receiving and ground waters; and degrades the integrity of the
       integrity of City neighborhoods and infrastructure; and

              WHEREAS, the Council finds that such are hazards and pose a significant risk to public
       health, safety, and welfare; and

             WHEREAS, the City Council conducted a public hearing at its regularly scheduled
       meeting on April 15, 2021; and
DocuSign Envelope ID: 13F3BB0E-4681-42B8-859D-F0B34101ECF5




              WHEREAS, it is in the best interest of the residents of Park City, Utah to the amend the
       Municipal Code to be consistent with the Federal and State law and to be consistent with the
       values and identified goals of the Park City community and City Council to protect health and
       safety, maintain the quality of life for its residents, preserve and protect the residential
       neighborhoods, and preserve the community’s unique character.

                 NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Park City, Utah as follows:

             SECTION 1. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 13 – Water and Stormwater Code. The recitals
       above are incorporated herein as findings of fact. Chapter 13-5 of the Water and Stormwater
       Code of Park City is hereby amended as attached (see Attachment A).

                 SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be effective upon publication.

                                         PASSED AND ADOPTED this 15th day of April, 2021.


                                                                 PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                                  _________________________________
                                                                             Andy Beerman, Mayor
       Attest:


       ___________________________
       Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder


       Approved as to form:


       __________________________
       City Attorney’s Office
DocuSign Envelope ID: 13F3BB0E-4681-42B8-859D-F0B34101ECF5




       13-5. Regulation and Enforcement of Storm Water Discharges Associated with Post-Construction Activities

                 13-5-1       Purpose
                 13-5-2       Definitions
                 13-5-3       Long-Term Storm Water Management
                 13-5-4       Maintenance Agreement
                 13-5-5       Compatibility with Other Permit and Ordinance Requirements
                 13-5-6       Proper Operation and Maintenance
                 13-5-7       Inspection and Monitoring
                 13-5-8       Penalties and Enforcement Authority
                 13-5-9       Severability
                 13-5-10      Effective Date


       13-5-1. Purpose

            The purpose of this Section is to establish minimum Storm Water Management (as defined herein) requirements and
            controls for Post-Construction activities. This Section outlines requirements to protect and safeguard the Long-Term
            general health, safety, and welfare of the public residing within the City (as defined herein) and surrounding Watersheds
            (as defined herein), and to control the adverse effects of Post-Construction Runoff and Nonpoint (as defined herein) and
            Point Source pollution associated with Development (as defined herein) and Redevelopment projects. This Chapter seeks
            to meet that purpose through the following objectives:

               A. Minimize the impact of Runoff from any Development or Redevelopment activities in order to reduce flooding,
               siltation, and pollution of Waters of the State of Utah.

               B. Minimize increases in Nonpoint Source pollution caused by Runoff from Development and Redevelopment
               projects which could otherwise degrade water quality.

               C. Minimize the total annual volume of Runoff which flows from any specific Site, during and following
               Development or Redevelopment, to not exceed the pre-Development hydrologic regime to the maximum extent
               practical.

               D. Reduce Runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion and Nonpoint Source pollution, wherever possible, through Storm
               Water Management controls and to ensure that these management controls are properly maintained and pose no threat
               to public safety.

               E. Provide Long-Term responsibility for and Maintenance (as defined herein) of Storm Water Management Facilities
               System (as defined herein).

               F. Establish legal authority to carry out all the Inspection (as defined herein) and monitoring procedures necessary
               to ensure compliance with this Chapter.

               G. Regulate the contribution of Pollutants to the City’s MS4 by Storm Water Discharges from Development and
               Redevelopment activities.

               H. Enable the City to comply with the Utah Pollution Discharge Elimination System Permit (UPDES) (as defined
               herein) and applicable federal regulations.

               I. Facilitate compliance with state and federal standards and Permits by landowners, owners of construction Sites,
               Developments, and permanent Storm Water Management Facilities within the City.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 13F3BB0E-4681-42B8-859D-F0B34101ECF5




            This Chapter shall be applicable to:

               A. All subdivision or Development applications greater than 1 acre in size;

               B. Any new Development or Redevelopment that changes ten percent (10%) or more of the impervious area located
               on the Property;

               C. Any new Development or Redevelopment regardless of size that is identified by the City to be in an area where the
               land use has the potential to generate highly contaminated Runoff; or

               D. Any land Development activities that are smaller than the minimum applicability criteria if such activities are part
               of a Master Planned Development (as defined in MCPC § 15-15-1) or annexation.

       13-5-2. Definitions

       For the purpose of this Chapter, the definitions listed hereunder shall be construed as specified in this Section. Additionally,
       definitions set out in MCPC § 13-4-2 shall apply to this Chapter 5. In the event a definition in Chapter 4 is different than a
       definition in this Chapter 5, the definition in this Chapter 5 shall control.

               A. APPLICANT. Person applying for a Permit with the City.

               B. CHANNEL. A natural or constructed watercourse with a definite bottom surface or bed and sides or banks that
                   conducts flowing water continuously or periodically.

               C. CITY. Park City Municipal Corporation, a municipality incorporated in the state of Utah, and its governing body,
                   employees, and authorized representatives.

               D. CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer of Park City, or authorized designee.

               E. DEVELOPMENT. Any manmade change in real estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures,
                   mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations or storage of equipment or materials.

               F. DEVELOPER. A Person, contractor, or entity that is physically doing the Development or Redevelopment.

               G. DISCHARGE. Refers to discharges from the Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4).

               H. EASEMENT. An acquired privilege or right of use or enjoyment that a Person, party, firm, corporation, municipality
                   or other legal entity has in the land of another.

               I. FACILITY. A place, amenity, or piece of equipment provided for a particular purpose.

               J. INSPECTION. The act of visiting an On-Site or Off-Site Facility or Property by authorized officials or individuals for
                    the purpose of observing and documenting activities, operations or conditions pertaining to a City issued Permit or
                    such activities requiring said Permit. All Facilities shall be subject to Inspection by any law enforcement agency or
                    by any designated agent of the City as well as by the Summit County Health Department or State board of health,
                    or State Department of Environmental Services. It shall be unlawful for any permitee to refuse access to a Facility.

               K. LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID). An approach to land Development (or Redevelopment) that works with
                   nature to more closely mimic pre-Development hydrologic functions. LID employs principles such as preserving
                   and recreating natural landscape features, minimizing effective imperviousness to create functional and appealing
                   site drainage that treat storm water as a resource rather than a waste product. Examples of LID include bio-retention
                   facilities, rain gardens, vegetated rooftops, rain barrels, and permeable pavements.

               L. MAINTENANCE. Any activity that is necessary to keep a Storm Water Facility in good working order so as to
                   function as designed. Maintenance shall include complete reconstruction of a Storm Water Facility if reconstruction
DocuSign Envelope ID: 13F3BB0E-4681-42B8-859D-F0B34101ECF5




                    is needed in order to restore the Facility to its original operational design parameters. Maintenance shall also include
                    the correction of any problem on the Site that may directly impair the functions of the Storm Water Facility.

               M. MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT. A deed restriction recorded in the office of the Summit County Recorder which
                  provides for Long-Term Maintenance of Storm Water Management practices.

               N. MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM (MS4). Means the conveyances owned or operated by the
                   City for the collection and transportation of stormwater, including roads and streets and their drainage systems, catch
                   basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, Channels, stormwater ponds, basins, wetlands and storm drains.

               O. NONPOINT SOURCE. Any source of water pollution that is not a Point Source.

               P. NOTICE OF VIOLATION (NOV). Written notice issued by the City Engineer whenever the City Engineer finds that
                   a Person or entity is in noncompliance with this Chapter; the City Engineer shall order compliance by written notice
                   of Violation to the Responsible Party or registered agent or entity. Requirements in this notice are at the discretion
                   of the City Engineer, and may include monitoring, payment to cover costs relating to the noncompliance, and the
                   implementation of BMP’s or ABMP’s.

               Q. OFF-SITE FACILITY. Structural BMP or a System located outside the subject Property boundary described in the
                   Permit application for land Development activity.

               R. ON-SITE FACILITY. Structural BMP or a System located within the subject Property boundary described in the
                   Permit application for Development activity.

               S. PERMIT. An official document giving a Person or Developer authorization to do something.

               T. POINT SOURCE. Any discernible, confined, and discrete conveyance from which Pollutants are or may be
                   discharged. This includes but is not limited to any pipe, ditch, Channel, tunnel, conduit, well, discrete fissure,
                   container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding operation, or vessel or other floating craft. This term does not
                   include agricultural stormwater discharges and return flows from irrigated agriculture.

               U. POST-CONSTRUCTION. Time Period for which the “completion” date has already passed and the structure, Facility,
                   or equipment is in use by the City, Developer, Property owner or other Persons.

               V. PROPERTY. Both real and personal property.

               W. REDEVELOPMENT. Any new construction on a Site that has pre-existing uses or Developments.

               X. RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Responsible Party means any entity holding fee title to the Property, contracted to manage
                   the Property, or in actual or apparent control of the Property.

               Y. RUNOFF. Water that travels across the land surface, or laterally through the ground near the land surface, and
                   discharges to water bodies either directly or through a collection and conveyance system. Runoff includes storm
                   water and water from other sources that travels across the land surface.

               Z. STORM WATER DRAINAGE DESIGN MANUAL. Current Park City Storm Water standards and regulations as
                   adopted by the City.

               AA. LONG-TERM STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (SWMP). The programs to maintain quality and
                  quantity of Storm Water Runoff to pre-Development levels indefinitely.

               BB. STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES SYSTEM (System). The drainage structures, conduits, ditches,
                   combined sewers, sewers, and all device appurtenances by means of which Runoff is collected, transported, pumped,
                   treated or disposed of.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 13F3BB0E-4681-42B8-859D-F0B34101ECF5




               CC. STORM WATER MANAGEMENT PLAN (SWMP). The set of drawings and other documents that comprise all
                   the information and specifications for the programs, drainage systems, structures, BMPs, concepts and techniques
                   intended to maintain or restore quality and control quantity of Runoff to pre-Development levels.

               DD. STRUCTURAL BMPs. Devices that are constructed to provide control of Runoff.

               EE. UNTREATED STORM WATER. Water that leaves the Site or Property prior to going through a Water Quality
                   Device.

               FF. UTAH POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (UPDES). The state/national program for issuing,
                   modifying, revoking and reissuing, terminating, monitoring and enforcing Permits, and imposing and enforcing
                   pretreatment requirements, under Sections 307, 318, 402, and 405 of the federal Clean Water Act, as amended.

               GG. VIOLATION. Means the failure of a structure, Person, or other Development to be fully compliant with this Chapter
                  5; the community’s standards and rules; and the City’s MS4’s regulations pertaining to the UTAH POLLUTION
                  DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (UPDES).

               HH. WATERSHED. All the land area that contributes Runoff to a particular point along a waterway.

               II. WATER QUALITY DEVICE. Any BMP, activity, or other method used to prevent or reduce the Discharge of
                    Pollutants.

       13-5-3. Long-Term Storm Water Management

               A. No Development or Redevelopment activity will commence on a Site subject to this Chapter until a Long-
                  Term SWMP detailing in concept how Storm Water Runoff and associated water quality impacts resulting
                  from the Development or Redevelopment will be controlled or managed. The Long-Term SWMP shall be
                  prepared by a licensed engineer and must indicate whether Storm Water will be managed On-Site or Off-Site
                  and, if On-Site, the general location and type of practices, structures, devices or activities that will be
                  employed. The Long-Term SWMP shall provide specifications, Maintenance frequencies, and Inspection
                  criteria for all facilities constructed on the Site along with procedural practices that will be used to minimize
                  the presence of Pollutants in Runoff.

               B. Maintenance Agreements. All Storm Water practices shall be maintained in accordance with the approved and
                  recorded Storm Water Maintenance Agreement and Long-Term SWMP.

               C. General Performance and Site Design Criteria

                     1.   Performance Criteria. The following performance criteria shall be addressed for Storm Water Management at
                          all Sites governed by this Chapter:

                             a.   For the Development or Redevelopment Site, all Storm Water Management practices will be designed
                                  to accommodate a minimum of a twenty-five (25) year storm event with a maximum release rate
                                  equal to the existing undeveloped Site conditions. In cases when the existing Site conditions have
                                  been disturbed or improved from native vegetation the Site shall use a reasonable release rate similar
                                  to that of a neighboring undisturbed land. All Sites must retain the first .50 inches of precipitation by
                                  incorporating LID into the design. All water storage and water quality standards must convey and or
                                  detain the twenty-five (25) year storm event, unless approved by the City Engineer.

                             b.   These practices should seek to utilize LID for Storm Water treatment and to infiltrate Storm Water
                                  Runoff from driveways, sidewalks, parking lots, and other impervious areas to the maximum extent
                                  practical to provide treatment for both water quality and quantity. The process shall include
                                  evaluations of BMPs considered and the reasons they have or have not been selected. All rooftop
                                  drainage is required to drain to landscaped areas unless otherwise approved by the City Engineer.
                                  Infiltration   shall   not     be    permitted    within    the     soil   ordinance      boundaries
                                  (https://www.parkcity.org/departments/building-and-fire-safety/soil-ordinance), alternative practices
DocuSign Envelope ID: 13F3BB0E-4681-42B8-859D-F0B34101ECF5




                                  shall be required to maintain water quantity and quality.

                             c.   All Storm Water Runoff generated from new Development or Redevelopment Sites shall not
                                  Discharge Untreated Storm Water directly into a naturally occurring wetland or waters of the State of
                                  Utah including the Storm Water system without treatment to the maximum extent practical as
                                  determined by the City Engineer. In no case shall the impact on wetlands be any more than allowed
                                  by the United States Army Corps of Engineers (USACE) mitigation rule (33 CFR Part 332).

                             d.   Each SWMP shall include an assessment of Post-Construction Storm Water impacts upon downstream
                                  and upstream properties. The assessment of Storm Water quality and quantity impacts shall be based
                                  on the standards contained within this Chapter, at a minimum. The assessment of upstream impacts
                                  must be provided, at a minimum, for Property or properties located immediately upstream and/or
                                  adjacent to the proposed Development or Redevelopment. The assessment of downstream impacts
                                  shall be made by evaluating a Site’s contribution to Storm Water Runoff to a suitable downstream
                                  point.

                             e.   If hydrologic or topographic conditions warrant greater control than that provided by the minimum
                                  control requirements established in the Storm Water Drainage Design Manual, the City reserves the
                                  right to impose any and all additional requirements deemed necessary to control the volume, timing,
                                  rate of Runoff and Pollutant loading.

                     2.   Site Design Feasibility. Storm Water Management practices for a Site shall be chosen based on the physical
                          conditions of the Site. Among the factors that should be considered:

                             a.   Topography
                             b.   Drainage Area(s)
                             c.   Soils
                             d.   Slopes
                             e.   Terrain
                             f.   Location in relation to environmentally sensitive features
                             g.   Receiving waters

                     3.   Conveyance Issues. All Storm Water Management practices shall be designed to convey Storm Water to
                          allow for the maximum removal of Pollutants and reduction in flow velocities.

                     4.   Pretreatment Requirements. Every Storm Water treatment practice shall have an acceptable form of water
                          quality pretreatment. The proposed pretreatment shall address the anticipated Pollutants that would normally
                          be expected from the proposed Development. Approval by City of pretreatment devices is required before
                          work can begin. The use of LIDs is encouraged, and evaluation documentation is required.

                     5.   Protection of Point of Discharge. Discharge from any on-site System into any Channel or feature, shall
                          be designed and constructed so that the Discharge does not cause damage to Off-Site Facilities,
                          Properties, Wetlands, or Sites.

                     6. Protection of Receiving Channels and Waters. Receiving Channels and water bodies (On-Site and/or
                         Off-Site) shall be evaluated to ensure that downstream Channels are not eroded and/or degraded by
                         altered Storm Water flows from Development or Redevelopment. Acceptable mitigation alternatives
                         include on-Site detention to reduce Post-Construction Runoff rates and volumes and Channel
                         Stabilization measures to control Channel degradation.

                     7.   Design of Water Impounding Structures (Dams). Any proposed water impounding structure (dam) shall
                          be designed in accordance with Utah Dam Safety standards R655-11, as amended, and if required, shall
                          be reviewed and approved by the Utah Dam Safety Engineer. Proof of compliance with this requirement
                          shall be provided by the Applicant for any Permit issued by the City.

               D. Storm Water Drainage Design Manual
DocuSign Envelope ID: 13F3BB0E-4681-42B8-859D-F0B34101ECF5




                      1.   The City reserves the right to furnish additional policy, criteria and information including
                           specifications and standards in the form of a revised Storm Water Drainage Design Manual. The
                           adopted Design Manual is applied to a project when a formal application for a Permit is made.

        13-5-4. Maintenance Agreement

           A. Maintenance Agreements. Maintenance of all Systems shall be ensured through the creation of a formal Maintenance
              Agreement. All applicants shall sign the standard Maintenance Agreement established by the City Engineers Office
              unless approved otherwise by the City Engineer.

        13-5-5. Compatibility with Other Permit and Code Requirements

            This Chapter is not intended to interfere with, abrogate, or annul any other ordinance, code, rule or regulation, statute,
            or other provision of law. The requirements of this Chapter should be considered minimum requirements, and where
            any provision of this Chapter imposes restrictions different from those imposed by any other ordinance, code, rule or
            regulation, or other provision of law, whichever provisions are more restrictive or impose higher protective standards
            for human health or the environment shall be considered to take precedence.

        13-5-6. Proper Operation and Maintenance

            A. Maintenance Easement. Prior to commencing Development or Redevelopment activities on a Site, the Applicant or
            Responsible Party of the Site must record in the office of the Summit County Recorder a Maintenance Agreement that
            shall be binding on all subsequent owners of land served by a System. The Maintenance Agreement shall provide for
            access to the subject Property at reasonable times for periodic Inspection by the City, or its contractor or agent, to ensure
            that the Storm Water controls are maintained in proper working condition to meet design, water quality standards and any
            other provisions established by this Chapter.

            B. Records of Installation and Maintenance Activities. Parties responsible for the operation and Maintenance of a Long-
            Term System shall make records of the installation and of all Maintenance and repairs, and shall retain the records for at
            least five (5) years. These records shall be made available to the City during Inspection of the Facility and at other reasonable
            times upon request. These records shall contain all of the following:

                 1.   The name and address of the landowner;

                 2.   A statement that an Inspection was made of all Structural BMPs;

                 3.   The date the Inspection was made; and

                 4.   A statement that all inspected Structural BMPs are performing properly and are in compliance with the terms and
                      conditions of the approved Maintenance Agreement required by this Chapter. Treatment requirements, operating
                      procedures, and practices to control Runoff from a Site will be monitored and corrective actions will be taken if
                      installed BMPs are not operating as expected.

            C. Failure to Maintain Practices. If a Responsible Party fails or refuses to meet the requirements of the Maintenance
            Agreement, the City, after reasonable notice, may correct a Violation of the design standards or Maintenance needs by
            performing all necessary work to restore the System in compliance with this Chapter. In the event that the System becomes
            a danger to public safety or public health, the City shall notify the Responsible Party for Maintenance of the System in
            writing. Upon receipt of that notice, the Person responsible shall have five (5) calendar days to complete Maintenance and
            repair of the Facility as approved by the City. The City may assess the Responsible Party of the System for the cost of repair
            work and any penalties. If the Responsible Party does not reimburse the City for all work performed within 60 days, the
            City may place a lien on the Property and/or pursue all remedies available at law or in equity.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 13F3BB0E-4681-42B8-859D-F0B34101ECF5




       13-5-7. Inspection and Monitoring

        A. Inspections: Whenever necessary to make an Inspection to enforce any provision of this Chapter, or whenever the City has
           cause to believe that there exists, or potentially exists, a condition which constitutes a Violation of this Chapter, the City
           may enter the Property/Site on which the System is located. Failure to comply with the terms of this Chapter may result in
           punitive actions by the City, Summit County Health Department, UDEQ, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or by
           other means identified in Permits or terms set forth in Development applications.

                 1.   Permanent Structural Systems. These facilities must be inspected by the City at least once during installation.

       13-5-8. Penalties and Enforcement Authority

                Refer to MCPC § 13-3-2 and 13-3-3 for penalties applicable to this Chapter.

       13-5-9. Severability

           A.    Should any Section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Chapter be declared unconstitutional or invalid for
                any reason, the remainder of the Chapter shall not be affected thereby.

       13-5-10. Effective Date

           A.   This Chapter shall become effective after publication of such in accordance with applicable state law.
