DocuSign Envelope ID: 218D19B1-0B50-41F9-983B-4CE58CA3C69F




            Ordinance No. 2021-44

            AN ORDINANCE GOVERNING THE USE OF ELECTRONIC MEETINGS BY CITY COUNCIL,
            AMENDING SECTIONS 2-3-2 AND 15-12-14 OF THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF PARK CITY.

            WHEREAS, Park City values transparency and conducting the public's business in public
            meetings where actions are taken and deliberations are conducted openly;

            WHEREAS, while the preference is for City Council to convene in person, Council recognizes that
            there may be circumstances where electronic meetings are necessary;

            WHEREAS, City Council desires to promote flexibility in hosting public meetings and to ensure
            consistency with the Open and Public Meetings Act, which was amended during the 2021
            General Session to grant additional flexibility in how public bodies conduct electronic meetings;

            WHEREAS, the COVID-19 virus continues to raise health or safety concerns for in-person public
            meetings and electronic meetings help facilitate social distancing;

            BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH, THAT:

            Sections 2-3-2 and 15-12-14 of the Municipal Code of Park City are amended and adopted to
            read as outlined in Exhibit A. This Ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 28th day of October, 2021.

                                                                PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION



                                                                Mayor Andy Beerman


            Attest:



            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder

            Approved as to form:



            Margaret Plane, City Attorney
DocuSign Envelope ID: 218D19B1-0B50-41F9-983B-4CE58CA3C69F




            Exhibit A:

            Park City Municipal Code
            Title 2 Administration
            Section 2-3 City Council Procedure

            2-3-2 Meetings
                A. REGULAR MEETINGS. The City Council shall, by ordinance adopted at the beginning of
                   the year, prescribe an annual meeting schedule with at least one regular meeting each
                   month.

                 B. SPECIAL MEETINGS.
                       1. If at any time the business of the City requires a special meeting of the City
                          Council, such meeting may be ordered by the Mayor or any two (2) members of
                          the City Council. The order shall be entered in the minutes of the City Council.
                          The order shall provide at least three (3) hours notice of the special meeting and
                          notice thereof shall be served by the City Recorder or Clerk on each member of
                          the City Council who did not sign the order by delivering the notice personally or
                          by leaving it at the Council member’s place of residence. The personal
                          appearance by a member of any specially called meeting constitutes a waiver of
                          the notice required in this section.
                       2. No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the City Council unless
                          it has been stated in the notice of such meeting. Any business which may
                          lawfully come before a regular meeting may be transacted at a special meeting.
                       3. RECONSIDERATION. Any action taken by the City Council shall not be
                          reconsidered or rescinded at any special meeting unless the number of members
                          of the City Council present at the special meeting is equal to or greater than the
                          number of members present at the meeting when the action was approved.

                 C. ELECTRONIC MEETINGS. The City Council may hold electronic meetings in accordance
                    with section 52-4-207 of the Utah Code, as amended. convene and conduct an
                    electronic meeting only if a quorum of the Council is physically present at a single
                    anchor location. However, if a proclamation of local, State or national emergency is in
                    effect, a quorum is not required to be physically present at a single anchor location in
                    order for an electronic meeting to be held. The meeting should be conducted and notice
                    must be given in accordance with U.C.A. §52-4-207, as amended.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 218D19B1-0B50-41F9-983B-4CE58CA3C69F




            Park City Municipal Code
            Title 15 Land Management Code
            Section 15-12 Planning Commission

            15-12-14 Voting and Electronic Meetings
               A. Actions of the Commission pass by majority vote. A majority is a simple majority of
                   those members participating in the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter under
                   consideration. The vote of the Chair shall be counted only when he or she votes in order
                   to break a tie vote of the other Commission members. The Commissioner elected Chair
                   Pro Tem shall, at all times, be entitled to cast his or her vote as a member of the
                   Commission, including those occasions on which he or she is acting as Chair Pro Tem. All
                   votes shall be a simple majority.

                 B. The Planning Commission may convene and conduct an electronic meeting only if a
                    quorum of the Planning Commission is physically present at a single anchor location.
                    However, if a proclamation of local, State or national emergency is in effect, a quorum is
                    not required to be physically present at a single anchor location in order for an
                    electronic meeting to be held. The meeting should be conducted and notice must be
                    given in accordance with U.C.A. §52-4-207, as amended.
