DocuSign Envelope ID: B20271DF-4F11-4FDE-A403-1664CEAB5D86




            Ordinance No. 2022-02

            AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 9-5-3, PARKING CODE - TYPES OF
            PERMITS; AND SECTION 4-7-3, LICENSING - CONVENTIONAL SALES AND
            COMMERCIAL HOSPITALITY APPLICATIONS, OF THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF
            PARK CITY

            WHEREAS, creating a single Special Use of Public Parking that would be available to
            official venues and sponsors operating under Special Event Permit and CSL2 holders.

            WHEREAS, the amendments clarify loading rules and simplify the process for
            applicants as well as aiding the Parking Division and Police Department in management
            as they enforce parking regulations during the Sundance Film Festival.

            WHEREAS, keeping Main Street vibrant and safe during the Festival time period is a
            priority for the City, the Sundance Institute, and the Historic Park City Alliance (HPCA).

            WHEREAS, during the March 9, 2017 Work Session Council asked staff to develop
            ways to minimize impacts stemming from the turnover of temporary businesses in
            commercial spaces during the Festival.

            WHEREAS, staff returned to City Council on August 3, 2017 (item VII) with proposed
            amendments to section 4-7-3 (Convention Sales and Commercial Hospitality
            Applications) which were adopted and codified.

            WHEREAS, on November 11, 2021 (p. 170/ minutes p. 2), during Work Session, staff
            provided an update on a number of code clarifications that would come to Council in
            preceding months. This included changes to parking permits during the Festival.

            WHEREAS, CSL2s are used to regulate activity during temporary activations that are
            not directly associated with the Sundance Film Festival (non-Special Event Permit
            Holder events). This includes regulating items such as building and fire codes and
            permits, floor plans, designed occupant loads, inspections, and trash. Type 2 CSLs are
            also used to regulate loading, unloading, and crowd management through SUPPs.

            WHEREAS, currently, SUPPs are only available to Type 2 CSL holders, and because
            official Festival venues and sponsors are regulated by a Special Event Permit, those
            venues and sponsors have not been able to obtain the same type of parking permit that
            is issued to CSL2 holders. This has caused confusion for the license holders and
            enforcement staff seeking specific rules and regulations pertaining to operations on
            Main Street.

            WHEREAS, The proposed changes move the parking permit process available for Type
            2 CSL holders to the Parking Code (Exhibit A) and expands the availability of the permit
DocuSign Envelope ID: B20271DF-4F11-4FDE-A403-1664CEAB5D86




            to official Sundance venues and sponsors. This would maintain the intent of the
            strategic loading regulations approved by City Council in 2017 but allow a single
            permitting scheme to apply more broadly, simplifying the process for applicants and
            making administration and enforcement easier for the Parking Division and Police
            Department.

            WHEREAS, specific changes include:

            •   SUPP for the Festival time period would be created under the Parking Code (Exhibit
                A). They would be similar to the permits previously found in the CSL2 section of the
                Licensing Code. SUPP would continue to be required for all CSL2 holders but be
                expanded to also cover official Festival venues and sponsors. In past years,
                Sundance venues and sponsors have not been eligible for these types of parking
                permits because they did not have CSL2s, as they are permitted under a Special
                Event Permit.
            •   The Licensing Code would be amended to remove the specific parking permit
                regulations for CSL2 and would instead reference the subsection in Parking Code
                (Exhibit A).
            •   The Blue Permit currently found in the Licensing Code provision would be removed.
                These permits would be covered by the Green Permit.
            •   Specific language would be added to the Code, outlining more clearly when loading
                activity can and cannot occur.


            WHEREAS, Special Use Parking Permits are required for venue loading, unloading and
            crowd management. The permits are not required for daily merchant deliveries (like
            FedEx, UPS, Sysco, and Nicholas).

            BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH, THAT:

            Sections 9-5-3 and 4-7-3 of the Municipal Code of Park City are amended and adopted
            to read as outlined in Exhibits A and B. This Ordinance shall become effective upon
            publication.

            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 6th day of January, 2022.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                              ____
                                                              Mayor Nann Worel
            Attest:



            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder
DocuSign Envelope ID: B20271DF-4F11-4FDE-A403-1664CEAB5D86




            Approved as to form:



            City Attorney’s Office
DocuSign Envelope ID: B20271DF-4F11-4FDE-A403-1664CEAB5D86




            Exhibit A – Parking Code 9-5-3 Amendment (Addition)

             H. SPECIAL USE OF PUBLIC PARKING PERMITS DURING SUNDANCE FILM
                FESTIVAL TIME PERIOD. If the City Manager or designee deems necessary, the
                loading operations of official Sundance venues and sponsors operating under the
                Special Event Permit as well as each Type 2 Convention Sales License (CSL2)
                holder must be permitted by the Parking Division with three (3) different permits:

                        1. Red – Large-scale loading operations with vehicles over 15 feet. These
                           operations will only be permitted between 4:00 a.m. - 10:00 a.m. on
                           designated days. The first opportunity for load-in will be the Tuesday
                           before the start of the Sundance Film Festival. The first opportunity for
                           load-out will be on Tuesday (Day 6) after the start of the Festival. The
                           specific parameters on location, timing, and vehicles will be determined by
                           the Parking Division.
                              a. Official Sundance venues and sponsors may conduct loading
                                  operations until 12 p.m. (noon), at the discretion of the Parking
                                  Department.Official Sundance venues and sponsors may request
                                  load-in prior to Tuesday before the start of the Festival but shall not
                                  be permitted for load-out before the first Tuesday of the Festival
                                  (day 6).
                        2. Green – For smaller loading operations with vehicles under 15 feet, such
                           as catering, food and beverage, musical instruments, or linen service.
                           These operations will be permitted throughout the day with specific
                           parameters on location, timing, and vehicles determined by the Parking
                           Division.
                        3. Crowd Management – The Parking Division shall require a crowd
                           management plan for any official Sundance venues and sponsors
                           operating under the Special Event Permit as well as each Type 2 CSL if
                           the venue uses public parking or public sidewalk/right of way for crowd
                           management. Crowd Management Permits will be issued by the Parking
                           Division and reviewed in coordination with the Police, Engineering, Special
                           Events and Building Departments.

                  The Parking Division will forward issued permits to the Finance Department for
                  Type 2 Convention Sales Licensees and the Special Events Department for official
                  Sundance venues and sponsors.

                  Any violation of the permit regulations may result in fines as outlined in the adopted
                  fee schedule as well as the revocation of a Type 2 CSL and the inability to obtain a
                  Type 2 CSL in the future.
DocuSign Envelope ID: B20271DF-4F11-4FDE-A403-1664CEAB5D86




            Exhibit B – Type 2 Commercial Sales License - Licensing Code Amendments


            4-7-3 Applications

                A. For Type 1 and Type 3 convention sales licenses, the City may take up to ten (10)
                   business days to complete the licensure process to permit adequate time for the Police,
                   Building, Finance, and Planning Departments for review and investigation. The
                   Departments may request reasonable evidence of title to goods proposed to be offered
                   for sale as part of the review.
                B. Retained Council Authority for Type 2 licenses:
                       1. The Finance Manager or his/her designee shall refer the Type 2 convention sales
                           license application to the Building, Planning, Parking, and Public Safety
                           Departments for approval.

                         2. After obtaining department approval, all Type 2 licenses shall require City
                            Council approval at a publicly noticed meeting. All Type 2 license applications
                            must be completed and received at least seven (7) calendar days prior to a
                            regular scheduled meeting and three (3) business days prior to a special
                            meeting.

                         3. All Type 2 license applications require the applicant to have a pre-inspection prior
                            to application at the Place of Business conducted by the Building Department for
                            compliance with the building and fire codes. A copy of said pre-inspection report
                            must accompany the license application submittal. The pre-inspection prior to
                            application shall remain valid for one hundred and twenty (120) days.

                         4. All Type 2 license applications shall require an accurate floor plan and a design
                            occupancy load stamped by a design professional to be submitted to the Building
                            Department prior to application.

                         5. All Type 2 license applicants require a final inspection by the Building
                            Department post application after the space has been set up for the event.
                            Business shall not be conducted until the final inspection has been passed and
                            the applicant has been issued a Type 2 convention sales license.

                         6. All Type 2 convention sales license applicants for locations within the Main Street
                            Business Improvement District (BID) boundaries are required to submit a
                            payment receipt from the contracted local solid waste removal service provider in
                            the amount of one hundred dollars ($100) at time of application, and be required
                            to pay the Main Street BID tax set forth by ordinance.

                         7. All Type 2 convention sales licenses will be assessed the Enhanced
                            Enforcement Fees as established in the Fee Schedule to be paid at time of
                            application.

                         8. If the City Manager or designee deems necessary, the loading operations of
                            each Type 2 convention sales licensee must be permitted by the Parking Division
                            as set forth in section 9-5-3(H) of the Municipal Code.
DocuSign Envelope ID: B20271DF-4F11-4FDE-A403-1664CEAB5D86




                C. Type 1 and Type 2 Convention Sales and Hospitality Licenses, located in a Storefront
                   that meet the definition of a Conventional Chain Business, must comply with the Land
                   Management Code Section 15-2.5-2 in the Historic Recreation Commercial District or
                   15-2.6-2 in the Historic Commercial Business District.
