DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            Ordinance 2021-50

            AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 14, TREES/LANDSCAPING; STREETS,
            SIDEWALKS AND STAIRS; STREETCUTS; SNOW REMOVAL; STREET ADDRESS
            SYSTEM; NEWS RACKS BY ADDING CHAPTER 14-7 SMALL WIRELESS
            FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY OF THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF PARK
            CITY

                  WHEREAS, the Municipal Code was adopted by the City Council of Park City,
            Utah to promote the health, safety and welfare of the residents, visitors, and property
            owners of Park City; and

                   WHEREAS, the Municipal Code implements the goals, objectives and policies of
            the Park City General Plan to maintain the quality of life and experiences for its residents
            and visitors; and to preserve the community’s unique character and values; and

                   WHEREAS, on September 26, 2018, the Federal Communications Commission
            adopted a Declaratory Ruling and Report and Order (FCC 18-133) adopting 47 C.F.R.
            section 1.6001 et seq.; and

                  WHEREAS, in response to FCC 18-133 the Utah State Legislature enacted S.B.
            189 “Small Wireless Facilities Deployment Act” (“SB 189”) in the 2018 General Session;
            and

                   WHEREAS, SB 189, now codified as Utah Code section 54-21-101 et seq.,
            regulates the deployment of small wireless facilities in the city right-of-way; and

                  WHEREAS, SB 189 permits local governments to exercise their police power by
            adopting an ordinance not in conflict with state code; and

                  WHEREAS, Park City Municipal Corporation desires to implement provisions of
            SB 189 by enacting Title 14 Chapter 14-7 of the Park City Municipal Code regulating the
            deployment of small wireless facilities in the city rights-of-way; and

                     WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the city rights-of-way within the city are: (a)
            critical to the travel and transport of persons and property in the business and social life
            of the city; (b) intended for public uses and must be managed and controlled consistent
            with that intent; (c) capable of being partially occupied by the facilities of wireless service
            providers and entities delivering services for the enhancement of the health, welfare, and
            well-being of the city and its citizens; and (d) a unique and physically limited resource
            requiring proper management to maximize the efficiency and to minimize the costs to the
            taxpayers of the foregoing uses and to minimize the inconvenience to and negative
            effects on the public from such facilities' construction, placement, relocation, and
            maintenance of the city’s rights-of-way; and
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




                   WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the right to occupy portions of the city rights-
            of-way for providing wireless services is a valuable use of a unique public resource that
            has been acquired and is maintained at great expense to the city and its taxpayers, and
            therefore, the taxpayers of the city should receive fair and reasonable compensation for
            use of the city rights-of-way; and

                    WHEREAS, the City Council finds that while wireless facilities are in part an
            extension of interstate commerce, their operations also involve the city rights-of-way and
            vital business and community service, which are of local concern. The City Council also
            finds it has the proprietary right to determine what persons and entities are granted
            permission to use the city rights-of-way, and to determine the terms and conditions of
            such use; and

                    WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the proliferation of small wireless facilities
            and associated structures in the city rights-of-way presents a hazard to pedestrian and
            vehicular safety, as well as aesthetic and land use concerns. These concerns should be
            dealt with by encouraging placement of small wireless facilities on city-owned properties
            removed from the rights-of-way and on existing structures and utility poles, approving the
            city’s design standards, and minimizing the number of new structures in a manner that
            does not effectively prohibit market access or competition; and

                   WHEREAS, the City Council finds entering a master license agreement with
            wireless providers: (a) fairly and reasonably compensates the city on a competitively
            neutral and nondiscriminatory basis as provided herein; (b) encourages competition by
            establishing terms and conditions under which wireless providers may use valuable public
            property to serve the public; (c) fully protects the public interests and the city from any
            harm that may flow from such commercial use of its city rights-of-way; (d) protects the
            police powers and proprietary authority of the city with respect to its city rights-of-way, in
            a manner consistent with federal and state law; (e) otherwise protects the public interests
            in the development and use of the city infrastructure; and (f) protects the public's
            investment in improvements in the public rights-of-way.

                   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Park City, Utah as
            follows:

                   SECTION 1. AMENDMENTS TO MUNICIPAL CODE OF PARK CITY TITLE 14 –
            Trees/Landscaping; Streets, Sidewalks And Stairs; Streetcuts; Snow Removal; Street
            Address System; News Racks Code. The recitals above are incorporated herein as
            findings of fact. Chapter 14-7 Small Wireless Facilities In The City Right-of-Way is hereby
            added to Title 14 as attached (See Attachment A).

                     SECTION 2. MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT. The recitals above shall be
            incorporated herein as findings of fact. All small wireless facility vendors and providers
            are required to enter into a Master License Agreement before placing small wireless
            facilities in the City Right-of-Way. (See Attachment B).
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




                   SECTION 3. DESIGN STANDARDS. The recitals above are incorporated herein
            as findings of fact. All small wireless facilities shall adhere to the Design Standards for
            placement and operation within the city rights-of-way. (See Attachment C).

                   SECTION 4.            EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be effective upon
            publication.
                      PASSED AND ADOPTED this 16th day of December, 2021.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION

                                                             _________________________________
                                                             Andy Beerman, Mayor
            Attest:


            ___________________________
            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder


            Approved as to form:


            __________________________
            Margaret Plane, City Attorney
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




                                            Chapter 14-7
                        SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY

            14-7-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE AND INTENT:
            14-7-2: DEFINITIONS:
            14-7-3: ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS:
            14-7-4: MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT REQUIRED:
            14-7-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:
            14-7-6: APPLICATIONS:
            14-7-7: OTHER REQUIREMENTS:
            14-7-8: ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES:

            14-7-1: DECLARATION OF PURPOSE AND INTENT:

                 Purpose: The purpose of this chapter is to establish requirements for the siting and use of
                 Small Wireless Installations in the City Right-of-Way in a manner that facilitates the delivery
                 of Wireless Services within the City while minimizing associated adverse impacts. The intent
                 of this section is to ensure that the siting of new telecommunications facilities is consistent
                 with the goals and policies of the Park City General Plan, and that the placement of same is
                 compatible with the purposes of the Land Management Code as set forth within Section 15-1-
                 2, and compatible with the additional intent of this Section which is specifically enacted to
                 achieve the following supplemental objectives:

                 1. To provide for the installation, maintenance, modification, removal, and replacement of
                    Small Wireless Installations in the City Right-of-Way without discriminating against
                    Wireless Providers of functionally equivalent services, including all of those who install,
                    maintain, and operate Small Wireless Facilities, while simultaneously minimizing adverse
                    impacts upon the community.

                 2. To minimize and regulate the placement of Small Wireless Installations to protect the
                    public health and safety, including the maintenance of clear lines of sight for vehicular and
                    pedestrian traffic and minimization of potential dangers associated with structural failures,
                    fire, icefall, and debris fall from Small Wireless Installations.

                 3. To minimize and regulate the placement of Small Wireless Installations in order to protect
                    property values and the interests of property owners, including the protection of values of
                    properties situated adjacent to, across from, or near Small Wireless Installations and the
                    minimization of the use of properties which would be incompatible with nearby properties
                    and/or be out-of-character with same.

                 4. To maintain the aesthetic values critical to the City’s status as a prominent outdoor resort
                    and historic community by techniques such as: minimizing the proliferation of Small
                    Wireless Facilities and Utility Poles, encouraging placement of Small Wireless Facilities
                    on existing structures, using camouflage/concealment, requiring conformity with Design
                    Standards, and undergrounding of Wireless Facilities and the equipment associated
                    therewith, where appropriate.
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            B. Scope:
                1. This chapter shall set forth the requirements for Wireless Providers that require the use of
                   the City Right-of-Way, including providers of both the system and service, and those
                   providers of the system only.

                 2. The requirements set forth in this chapter shall apply to the installation, maintenance,
                    modification, removal, and replacement of all Small Wireless Installations and to all
                    Applications to install, operate, maintain, remove, or replace Small Wireless Installations.
                    This chapter shall apply to all future Wireless Providers.

                 3. Nothing in this chapter shall limit the ability of the City and a Wireless Provider to enter
                    into a separate agreement to install Wireless Facilities on City property not located within
                    the City Right-of-Way.

                 4. A Wireless Provider shall be civilly liable for any employees, agents, contractors,
                    licensees, or designees acting on behalf of the Wireless Provider to perform any activity
                    contemplated by this chapter.

                 5. The activities regulated by this chapter are subject to terms of the Small Wireless Facilities
                    Deployment Act, Utah Code title 54, chapter 21, as amended.

            C. Excluded Activity: This chapter shall not apply to video service systems, wireline services, or
               Macro Wireless Facilities.

            14-7-2: DEFINITIONS:

            APPLICANT. A Wireless Provider who submits an Application to PCMC pursuant to the terms
            of this Ordinance and the Master License Agreement.

            APPLICATION. Is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(5), as amended.

            CITY. Park City Municipal Corporation.

            CITY ENGINEER. The City Engineer, or authorized representative.

            CITY RIGHT-OF-WAY. Is the area under City’s control on, below, or above a public: (i)
            roadway; (ii) highway; (iii) street; (iv) sidewalk; (v) alley; or (vi) property similar to property listed
            in (i) through (v). “City Right-of-Way” does not include: (i) the area on, below, or above a federal
            or state highway; or (ii) a fixed guideway, as defined in Utah Code section 59-12-102, as amended.

            DESIGN STANDARDS. The Design Standards: Small Wireless Facilities within the City Right-
            of-Way adopted by the City.

            FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            MACRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A Wireless Facility, mounted on a tower or similar structure,
            that is not a Small Wireless Facility. Macro Wireless Facilities are subject to section 15-4-14 and
            are not permitted in the City Right-of-Way unless required by Federal law.

            MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT. An agreement between a Wireless Provider and the City
            that sets forth the general terms and conditions pursuant to which the Wireless Provider may install,
            operate, maintain, remove, or replace Small Wireless Installations. Attached as Exhibit 1.

            PERMIT. An approved Application issued under this Title for the installation, operation,
            maintenance, removal, or replacement of a Small Wireless Installation, including any necessary
            construction, excavation, or other work in, or obstruction of, the City Right-of-Way. The activity
            authorized by a Permit shall be subject to the terms of this Chapter, the associated Master License
            Agreement between the City and Permit holder. Other permits, including without limitation, a
            building permit or traffic control permit, may also be required.

            PERSON. Means and includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association, public utility
            company, corporation, company, organization, or entity of any kind.

            SMALL WIRELESS FACILITY. Is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(25), as amended.

            SMALL WIRELESS INSTALLTION. Means a Small Wireless Facility installed, mounted,
            maintained, or operated on an existing Utility Pole or existing Wireless Support Structure in the
            public right-of-way; or a new Utility Pole or Replacement Utility Pole, on which a Small Wireless
            Facility is installed, mounted, maintained, or operated, in the City Right-of-Way.

            UTILITY POLE. Is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(28), as amended, and, for the
            purposes of this chapter, includes any and all forms of existing power supply, conduit, or other
            form of infrastructure fixtures or equipment for the delivery of power or communication.

            WIRELESS FACILITY. Is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(29), as amended.

            WIRELESS PROVIDER. Is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(30), as amended, and, for
            the purposes of this chapter, includes all employees, agents, contractors, licensees, or designees
            acting on behalf of a Wireless Provider to perform any activity contemplated by this chapter.

            WIRELESS SERVICE. Is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(32), as amended.

            WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. Is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(34), as
            amended.

            14-7-3: ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS
            In addition to the requirements set forth in this chapter, the City may adopt such orders, rules and
            regulations which are reasonably necessary to accomplish the purposes of this chapter and are
            consistent herewith.
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            14-7-4: MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT REQUIRED:

            A. Any Wireless Provider desiring to install, operate, maintain, remove, or replace a Small
               Wireless Installation shall first enter into a Master License Agreement with the City, except to
               the extent exempted by federal or state law.

            B. A Master License Agreement is the right to occupy the City Right-of-Way on a nonexclusive
               basis for the limited purposes and time period stated in the agreement. A Master License
               Agreement shall contain appropriate provisions for enforcement, compensation, insurance and
               bonding, indemnification, and protection of the public, consistent with the other provisions of
               this chapter, including but not limited to defining events of default, procedures for accessing
               the bond, and rights of termination or revocation.

            C. The City may grant nonexclusive Master License Agreements, on a nondiscriminatory basis,
               governing the installation, operation, maintenance, removal, or replacement of Small Wireless
               Installations in accordance with the provisions of this section.

            D. Subject to all applicable statutes, regulations and ordinances, and the approval of the City
               Attorney and City Manager, the City may grant a Master License Agreement to a Wireless
               Provider. The Wireless Provider requesting the Master License Agreement shall execute the
               authorized Master License Agreement within 30 days of approval by City Manager and City
               Attorney.

            E. The granting of a Master License Agreement shall not relieve the Wireless Provider of any
               obligation under City, state, or federal law.

            F. A Master License Agreement shall not convey title, equitable or legal, in the City Right-of-
               Way.

            14-7-5: PERMIT REQUIRED:

                 Except as otherwise provided by applicable law, any Wireless Provider desiring to install,
                 operate, maintain, or replace Small Wireless Installations shall first submit an Application and
                 obtain a Permit for such work pursuant to section 14-7-6 of this title, as amended. Any
                 conditions imposed by such Permit shall conform to the requirements of Utah Code section
                 54-21-302, as amended, and federal law. The Wireless Provider’s continued use of, and access
                 to, the Small Wireless Installation shall be conditioned on compliance with the terms of the
                 Permit, the Master License Agreement, and any Design Standards adopted by the City.

            14-7-6: APPLICATIONS:

            A. Application Fee: In order to offset the cost to the City to review Applications, a Wireless
               Provider shall pay to City a non-refundable application fee for a Permit to work in the City
               Right-of-Way for the installation or modification of a Small Wireless Installation. The cost of
               such Application is set forth on the City's consolidated fee schedule and shall comply with
               Utah Code section 54-21-501 et seq., as amended.
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            B. Form of Application: The Application for a Permit shall be made available online and is only
               subject to change by approval by the City Manager and City Attorney. The Wireless Provider
               shall designate the purpose of the Permit and the type and location of the installation or
               modification.

            C. Alternative Proposals. An Application shall require the Applicant to present alternative
               proposals to provide Wireless Service to the covered area. Alternative proposals shall include
               alternative sites and/or designs that utilize, to varying extents, different strategies for the
               provision of service, such as: installation of Small Wireless Facilities on City-owned property,
               installation of Small Wireless Facilities on existing Utility Poles and Wireless Support
               Structures in the City Right-of-Way, and installation of new Utility Poles in the City Right-of-
               Way or on City-owned property. Each alternative proposal shall indicate why each proposed
               Small Wireless Installation is necessary for the provision of Wireless Service to the coverage
               area. The number of required alternative proposals shall depend on the complexity of the
               Application. From these alternative proposals, the City may approve a proposal that best meets
               the City’s purposes under this chapter and that does not effectively prohibit the provision of
               Wireless Services to the coverage area.

            D. Design Standards. The City may adopt Design Standards for Small Wireless Installations that
               are non-discriminatory and do not conflict with applicable Federal or State law. An Application
               shall require the proposed Small Wireless Installation to conform to such Design Standards.

            E. Incorporation of Master License Agreement. An Application shall incorporate all applicable
               requirements set forth in the Master License Agreement between the Applicant and the City.

            F. Compensation. An Application may require payment of any rates or fees allowable under state
               or federal law, as provided in the Master License Agreement.

            G. Other Requirements. An Application may impose any additional requirements, pursuant to
               the City’s police powers to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public, that do not
               conflict with state or federal law.

            H. Application Processing. The procedures and timelines for processing Applications shall be
               governed by Utah Code section 54-21-302, as amended. The City may accept any alternative
               proposal contained in the Application or deny the Application. Any decision to deny an
               Application shall be supported by substantial evidence. An approved Application shall
               function as a Permit to install, operate, maintain, remove, or replace the associated Small
               Wireless Installation as described in section 14-7-5.

            14-7-7: Compliance with Law
            All Wireless Facilities must at all times comply with all applicable Federal, State, and local laws,
            including building codes and safety codes and regulations. To the extent this chapter conflicts with
            other provisions of City ordinances, this chapter shall control. All Small Wireless Installations
            shall be constructed and installed to manufacturer's specifications. Provider shall obtain one or
            more FCC licenses, as required by the FCC, to operate its Wireless Facilities. The City may, at its
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            discretion, perform testing to ensure that any Wireless Facility is in compliance with the FCC’s
            maximum permissible exposure limits of radio frequency emissions for the general public or that
            any signage regarding radio frequency emissions is accurate.

            14-7-8: ENFORCEMENT AND REMEDIES:

                 A. Enforcement: The City is responsible for enforcing and administering this chapter, and
                    the City or its designee is authorized to give any notice required by law or under any Master
                    License Agreement, Design Standards, Application, or Permit. Failure of the City to
                    require performance of any term in this chapter or the waiver by either party of breach
                    hereof shall not prevent subsequent enforcement of that term and shall not be deemed a
                    waiver of any subsequent breach.

                 B. Default: If a Wireless Provider defaults under any provision of this chapter and such
                    default is not cured within thirty (30) days following notice by City to Wireless Provider
                    of its default, or such longer cure period as permitted by City, City shall maintain all its
                    rights and remedies, at law and in equity, including to:

                1. Fine the violating party One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) per day per violation until the
                   violation is cured;

                2. Terminate or suspend any Permit, or Master License Agreement, held by the violating
                   party;

                3. Withhold issuing any new Permits to the violating party; and

                4. Use bond proceeds to remove and impound the Small Wireless Installation at the expense
                   of the violating party until the violation has been cured.
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




                                        MASTER LICENSE AGREEMENT FOR
                                SMALL WIRELESS FACILITIES IN PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY
                    This License Agreement For Wireless Facilities in the Public Right of Way (“Agreement”) is made
            and entered into as of the Effective Date by and between PARK CITY MUNICIPIAL CORPORATION
            (“Licensor” or “City”) and NEW CINGULAR WIRELESS PCS, LLC, a Delaware limited liability
            company (“Licensee” or “Wireless Provider”).
                                                                   RECITALS
                    WHEREAS, any capitalized terms in this Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to them in
            Section 1.
                    WHEREAS, Licensee seeks to install and operate Small Wireless Facilities on existing Wireless
            Support Structures in the City’s public right-of-way, and to install, modify, or replace Utility Poles
            associated with Small Wireless Facilities in the public right of way, upon the terms and conditions set forth
            below;
                   WHEREAS, Licensor is willing to accommodate Licensee’s non-exclusive use of such Wireless
            Support Structures and Utility Poles in accordance with Laws and the terms and conditions of this
            Agreement; and
                   WHEREAS, Licensee will abide by and ensure all applications and infrastructure are consistent
            with the “Design Standards: Small Wireless Facilities Within the Public Right-of-Way;” Laws; the
            Application; and this Agreement, all of which will be approved by the City Council of Park City Municipal
            Corporation;

                   NOW, THEREFORE, FOR VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, receipt of which is hereby
            acknowledged, the Parties agree as follows:


                 1. DEFINED TERMS
            As used herein, the following capitalized terms in the Agreement have the meaning ascribed to them below.
            “Abandon” means to permanently relinquish ownership of a Small Wireless Installation in its then existing
            location.
            “Affiliate” means any entity that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with a Party.
            “Agreement Initial Term” means an initial term of ten (10) years.
            “Annual Term” means a term of one (1) year.
            “Application” means an application to install a Small Wireless Installation, on file with the City Engineer.
            Licensor may, in its own sole discretion, modify the Application and any requirements therein, at any time
            and for any reason, including to respond to changes in Laws, so long as any requirements imposed by the
            Application conform to Laws. See Exhibit 1.
            “Casualty Event” means any casualty, fire, act of God, or other harm affecting a Small Wireless Installation
            licensed in whole or in part to Licensee pursuant to a Permit.
            “Commencement Date” means the first day of the month following the day Licensee commences
            installation of the Small Wireless Installation at a particular location under a Permit.
            “Days” means calendar days. If deadline or other date falls on a non-business day (including weekends,
            holidays recognized by the federal government, and holidays recognized by the state of Utah), that date
            shall be extended to the next business day.
            “Decorative Pole” is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(2).


            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                      1
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            “Default” means the failure by a Party to (1) perform any obligation or condition of this Agreement, or (2)
            refrain from performing any action prohibited by this Agreement, where in either case such failure
            continues for a period of more than thirty (30) days after receipt of written notice from the other Party of
            such failure identified with reasonable specificity as to the obligation, prohibition, or condition of this
            Agreement which the Party is alleged to have failed to perform. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Default
            will be deemed to exist if a Party has commenced to cure the alleged failure to perform within such thirty
            (30) day period, and thereafter such efforts are completed with reasonable diligence. Delay in curing an
            alleged failure to perform will be excused if due to causes beyond the reasonable control of the Party against
            whom the failure to perform has been alleged.
            “Design Standards” means the document Design Standards: Small Wireless Facilities within the City Right-
            of-Way adopted by Licensor. Licensor may, in its own sole discretion, modify the Design Standards at any
            time and for any reason, including to respond to changes in Laws, so long as the Design Standards conform
            to all requirements imposed by Laws. Any modifications to the Design Standards will apply retroactively
            to all existing Permits granted under this Agreement. See Exhibit 2.
            “Effective Date” means the latest date in the signature blocks in the Agreement.
            “Emergency” means a situation in which there is an imminent threat of injury to person or property, or loss
            of life.
            “Event of Force Majeure” means any act of God, strike, civil riot, fire, flood, material or labor shortage,
            restriction by governmental authority, and any other cause not within the reasonable control of the Party
            whose performance is required under the Agreement.
            “FCC” means the Federal Communications Commission.
            “Fee” means payment to Licensor by Licensee according to Licensor’s then-current fee schedule.
            “Interference” means any material and adverse physical obstruction of, or impairment of, the radio signals
            or operation of Licensee’s Small Wireless Facility operated pursuant to a Permit.
            “Laws” means all federal, state and local laws, orders, rules and regulations applicable to Licensee’s
            ownership or use of a any Small Wireless Installation, or Licensor’s ownership and use of any associated
            Wireless Support Structure or Utility Pole, including associated improvements or equipment, in the public
            right-of-way.
             “Licensee Indemnitees” means Licensee, its employees, affiliates, officers, directors, successors and
            assigns.
            “Licensor Indemnitees” means Licensor, its officers, officials, employees, and volunteers.
            “New Law” means any legislative, regulatory, judicial, or other action affecting the rights or obligations of
            the Parties, or establishing rates, terms or conditions for the construction, operation, maintenance, repair or
            replacement of Wireless Facilities on public infrastructure or in the public right-of-way, that differ, in any
            material respect from the rates, terms or conditions of the Agreement.
            “Parties” means Licensor and License collectively.
            “Party” means individually Licensor and Licensee.
            “Permit” means an Approved Application that grants Licensee the right to install, maintain, and operate the
            described Small Wireless Installation pursuant to the terms of this Agreement and the conditions imposed
            by the Permit, including the Design Standards and Laws.
            “Permitted Site” means the areas of Licensor’s public right-of-way approved for Licensee’s Permitted Use
            as described or depicted in a Permit.
            “Permitted Use” means the transmission and reception of communications signals, and the installation,
            construction, modification, maintenance, operation, repair, replacement or upgrade of any Small Wireless
            Installation necessary for its successful and secure use.

            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                        2
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            “Person” means and includes any natural person, partnership, firm, association, public utility company,
            corporation, company, organization, or entity of any kind.
            “Approved Installation” means any Small Wireless Installation that has been approved in writing by
            Licensor.
            “Public Improvement Project” means any construction or expansion of roads, streets, sidewalks, curbs,
            gutters, storm drainage facilities, sewer lines, water utility lines or other capital improvement project within
            Licensor’s jurisdiction undertaken by or on behalf of Licensor. Public Improvement Project does not
            include work undertaken for the benefit of a non-governmental entity, even if such work is performed by
            Licensor.
            “Rate Schedule” means the schedule of all application fees and annual fees, as adopted by the City. All
            fees shall comply with the provisions of Utah Code Annotated § 54-21-501 as amended.
            “Relocation Notice” means a written notice delivered to Licensee at least ninety (90) days prior to the date
            of Licensor’s desired relocation deadline.
            “Replacement Utility Pole” means a Utility Pole, associated with a Small Wireless Facility and installed by
            Licensee, the installation of which requires the removal of all or a substantial part of an existing Utility
            Pole. The Replacement Pole shall remain the property of Licensee unless Abandoned. Licensee shall be
            responsible for the disposal or storage of the preexisting Utility Pole.
            “RF” means radio frequency.
            “Small Wireless Facility” is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(25).
            “Small Wireless Installation” means a Small Wireless Facility installed, mounted, maintained, or operated
            on an existing Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure in the public right-of-way, or a new Utility Pole
            or Replacement Utility Pole, on which a Small Wireless Facility is installed, mounted, maintained, or
            operated, in the public right-of-way.
            "Substantial Modification" means a proposed modification or replacement to an existing Small Wireless
            Installation that will substantially change the physical dimensions of the supporting structure under the
            substantial change standard established in 47 C.F.R. § 1.6100(b)(7).
            “Technical Grounds” means, in light of prevailing industry engineering standards, reasons of insufficiency
            of capacity, safety, reliability and/or generally applicable engineering purposes consistent with applicable
            Laws.
            “Term” means the Agreement Initial Term and any renewal terms exercised pursuant to Section 3.1 of this
            Agreement.
            “Termination Date” means the final day on which this Agreement is valid and binding and is the final day
            of the Agreement Initial Term subsequent to the Effective Date, or the final day of any renewal term
            subsequent to a renewal date pursuant to Section 3.1 of this Agreement.
            "Utility Pole" is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(28).
            “Wireless Facility” is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(29).
            "Wireless Support Structure" is defined in Utah Code section 54-21-101(34).


            2. GRANT OF LICENSE. To the extent not already governed by Laws, and subject to the terms and
            conditions of this Agreement, Licensor hereby grants Licensee: (i) the non-exclusive right to install,
            construct, repair, replace, reconstruct, maintain, remove, or retain in, on, over, under, upon, across, or along
            Licensor’s public rights-of-way Small Wireless Installations at the Permitted Sites; and (ii) as applicable, a
            license for Licensee’s use of the Permitted Sites as necessary to utilize Licensor-owned Wireless Support
            Structures and to utilize, replace, or upgrade Licensor-owned Utility Poles, as provided herein and as
            provided in the individual Permit signed by the Parties pursuant to this Agreement. The license granted
            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                         3
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            herein is revocable only in accordance with the terms and conditions of this Agreement. No use by Licensee
            of any Licensor-owned property under this Agreement shall create or vest in Licensee any ownership or
            property rights in such property. Nothing in this Agreement grants Licensee the right to install, modify, or
            operate any Small Wireless Installation, or to install any other facilities, that do not conform to this
            Agreement.
            3. TERM
                     3.1    Agreement Term. This Agreement shall commence as of the Effective Date and remain in
            full force and effect for the Agreement Initial Term and any following renewal terms, unless sooner
            terminated in accordance with the terms of this Agreement or by operation of Laws. If either Party seeks to
            renegotiate or amend this Agreement, or if Licensor desires to terminate this Agreement, the requesting
            Party must provide written notice thereof to the other Party no later than six (6) months prior to the
            Termination Date. Both Parties shall deem such notice to be a good faith request for negotiations. If either
            Party makes such request, this Agreement may remain in effect for a period not to exceed three (3) months
            following the Termination Date, for the purpose of amending or replacing this Agreement. If no Party
            makes a request for renegotiation, amendment, or termination no later than six (6) months prior to the
            Termination Date, this Agreement shall automatically renew for a five (5) year renewal Term.
                   3.2      Permit Term. A Permit is valid for ten (10 years or for the duration of the Master License
            Agreement between the Licensee and Licensor, whichever is shorter, unless sooner terminated in
            accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
            4. CHARGES, BILLING AND PAYMENT
                     4.1     Fees. Licensee shall pay to Licensor an Application Fee, an Annual Fee, and a Collocation
            Fee, if applicable, for each Small Wireless Installation as provided in the Rate Schedule.
                    4.2      Timing of Payment. Licensee shall pay the Application Fee upon submission of the
            Application. Annual and Collocation Fees are due within thirty (30) days of Licensee’s receipt of Permit.
            Thereafter, any fees due shall be paid on or before each anniversary of the receipt of Permit.
                     4.3     Billing and Payment Generally. All bills and other requests for payment to Licensor under
            this Agreement (other than the payment of the Fee) shall be presented in writing to Licensee and
            accompanied with reasonable substantiation of the costs incurred by Licensor. Properly presented invoices
            shall be paid by Licensee within thirty (30) days of receipt of invoice accompanied by such substantiation.
            All charges payable under this Agreement shall be billed by Licensor within one (1) year from the end of
            the calendar year in which the charges were incurred. Any charges beyond such period shall not be billed
            by Licensor and shall not be payable by Licensee.
            5. APPLICATION AND PERMIT
                    5.1      Application. Subject to Section 5.4 below, before installing, operating, maintaining, or
            replacing any Small Wireless Installation, Licensee shall apply for a Permit from Licensor using an
            Application in the form attached as provided by the City Engineer. The City has the right to require wireless
            providers to submit proof of compliance with Federal Law along with the application. This proof includes
            but is not limited to: environmental assessments and other documents that may be required under the
            National Environmental Policy Act; proof of compliance with the National Historic Preservation Act; and
            proof of compliance with federal RF-emission laws and regulations, to the extent permitted by Laws.
                    5.2     Processing of Application. Unless Laws provide otherwise, processing of an Application
            shall comply with the requirements of Utah Code section 54-21-302(3)–(6). Licensor may deny an
            Application if the Application fails to comply with: any requirements imposed by the Application, the
            Design Standards, Laws or this Agreement. Regardless of such compliance, Licensor may deny an
            Application if such denial is necessary to protect human health, safety, or welfare. With respect to an
            Application for the installation, operation, maintenance, or replacement of a Small Wireless Facility on
            Licensor-owned property, Licensor may, on Technical Grounds, deny all or part of an Application, limit
            the technical characteristics (e.g., weight or size) of the Small Wireless Facility, or limit the number of

            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                      4
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            Small Wireless Facilities that may be installed, operated, maintained, or replaced on such property. In the
            event of rejection on Technical Grounds of an Application, Licensor shall provide a written explanation to
            Licensee of the basis for the rejection. In the event that Licensor approves Licensee’s Application, then the
            Parties shall promptly proceed in good faith to sign and deliver a Permit for the Wireless Facility fully
            consistent with Licensor’s approval of the Application.
                     5.3      Consolidated Application. For applications involving the installation, operation,
            maintenance, or replacement of multiple Small Wireless Installations that are substantially similar in design,
            Licensee may, in its discretion, file a consolidated application for multiple Small Wireless Installations not
            to exceed twenty-five (25) total installations. Upon approval by Licensor, Licensor shall issue a separate
            Permit for each approved Small Wireless Installation in the consolidated application. Licensee may submit
            no more than one consolidated application, or no more than twenty-five (25) singular applications, every
            thirty (30) days.
                     5.4     Modifications and Replacements. Licensee must submit a new Application and receive a
            new permit to modify, replace, or upgrade a Small Wireless Installation if the modification, replacement,
            or upgrade involves a Substantial Modification. If a modification, replacement, or upgrade to a Small
            Wireless Installation does not involve a Substantial Modification, Licensee shall be allowed to perform
            such modification, replacement, or upgrade to its Wireless Facility without further land use review or
            approval by Licensor; provided, however, that all other applicable municipal reviews and approvals, such
            as the issuance of a building permit and right-of-way permits, shall be required. In connection with the
            foregoing, the City has the right to require Licensee to submit proof of compliance with Federal Law as
            described in section 5.1.
                    5.5     Approved Installations. Once the design for a certain Small Wireless Installation has been
            approved by Licensor and has become an Approved Installation, any subsequent Application to install
            another instance of the same design may, in Licensor’s sole discretion, be exempted from certain
            Application requirements, such as structural design details and electrical specifications. All other municipal
            reviews and approvals, including the execution of a Permit, building permits, and right-of-
            way/encroachment permits, shall apply to any Application for an Approved Installation.
            6. GENERAL LICENSEE OBLIGATIONS
                      6.1      Technical Requirements and Specifications. At its own expense, Licensee shall erect,
            install, repair, and maintain its Small Wireless Installations in safe condition and good repair in accordance
            with this Agreement, the Design Standards, Application, Permit, and Laws.
                    6.2      Costs to Rearrange/Adjust Third Party Facilities. If a Person, other than Licensor, must
            rearrange or adjust any of its facilities to accommodate a new Wireless Facility, Licensee shall coordinate
            such activity at Licensee’s sole expense; provided, however, that Licensee shall not be responsible for any
            third-party or Licensor costs necessary to correct third party or Licensor attachments that are non-compliant
            with Laws.
                    6.3     No Liens. Licensee will not allow the placement of any lien with respect to any Licensor-
            owned property or facility, including Utility Poles and Wireless Support Structures, resulting from any
            work performed by or on behalf of Licensee pursuant to this Agreement, or any act or claim against
            Licensee or any of its contractors, agents, or customers. Licensee will, at its sole expense, promptly bond
            or otherwise discharge any such lien within thirty (30) days of the lien being recorded on such property.
                     6.4     Worker Qualifications; Responsibility for Agents and Contractors. Each Party shall ensure
            that its employees, agents or contractors which perform work in furtherance of this Agreement are
            adequately trained and skilled to perform work in the public right-of-way, including work on associated
            structures such as Utility Poles and Wireless Support Structures in the public right-of-way, in accordance
            with all applicable industry and governmental standards and regulations.
            7. UTILITIES. Licensee shall be solely responsible for arrangement and payment for electric service
            necessary in connection with Wireless Facilities; provided, however, that if Licensee and Licensor agree to
            utilize Licensor’s electrical service serving Licensor-owned property, then commencing on the first (1st)
            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                       5
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            day of the month following the date that Licensee first utilizes Licensor’s electrical service to provide power
            for the Wireless Facility, Licensee shall pay to Licensor a flat utility usage fee each month as set out in the
            Rate Schedule until such use is discontinued by Licensee. Licensee shall pay Licensor the difference
            between the flat utility usage fee estimate and the actual utility cost incurred by the Licensor, as invoiced
            by Licensor in accordance with Section 4.3 of this Agreement.
            8. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
                     8.1.    RF Emissions. Licensee’s operation of its Wireless Facilities shall comply with all FCC
            regulations regarding RF emissions and exposure limitations. Licensee is allowed to install signage as long
            as it complies with the City’s Sign Code, and other mitigation, such as a power cut-off switch, to allow
            workers to avoid excess exposure to RF emissions. Except in an Emergency, Licensor’s authorized field
            personnel will contact Licensee’s designated point of contact with reasonable advance notice, but in no
            event less than one (1) business day in advance, to inform Licensee of the need for a temporary power-shut-
            down. In the event of an unplanned outage or cut-off of power or an Emergency, the power-down will be
            with such advance notice as practicable. Once the work has been completed and the worker(s) have
            departed the exposure area, the Party who accomplished the power-down shall restore power and inform
            Licensee as soon as possible that power has been restored. The Parties acknowledge that they understand
            the important nature of Licensee’s Wireless Facilities and agree to limit the frequency of power-downs and
            to restore power as promptly as reasonably possible.
                     8.2       Interference.
                            (a)     Licensee shall operate its Wireless Facilities in compliance with all FCC
            regulations regarding Interference with the radio signal transmissions of Licensor and other third parties,
            provided such transmissions are operated in compliance with Laws.
                             (b)      Licensor will not cause, nor will Licensor knowingly permit its employees, tenants,
            licensees, invitees, agents or independent contractors to cause, Interference with Licensee’s existing Small
            Wireless Installations. If Licensee reasonably determines that Interference is occurring, then Licensor will
            meet and confer with Licensee within thirty (30) days of Licensor’s receipt of notice of Interference from
            Licensee, and otherwise diligently work in good faith with Licensee to determine the cause of the
            Interference and to develop reasonable solutions to resolve the Interference in a mutually acceptable
            manner.
                     8.3      Ownership and Maintenance of Small Wireless Installations. Any Small Wireless
            Installation installed by Licensee pursuant to this Agreement shall remain the property of Licensee until
            Abandoned or removed. Licensee shall be responsible for maintaining the structural integrity and outward
            appearance of the Small Wireless Installation, including ensuring that the Small Wireless Installation
            conforms with the Design Standards, associated Permit, this Agreement, and Laws, for the duration of the
            associated Permit. Licensee shall be liable for any claims arising from the placement or operation of the
            Small Wireless Installation, including but not limited to claims arising from: structural failure; falling snow,
            ice, or other debris; vehicular or pedestrian accidents; or electrocution. Licensee agrees to store and
            maintain in good condition, at Licensee’s sole expense, any original Decorative Pole replaced by Licensee.
            Such Decorative Pole shall remain the property of Licensor.
            9. RELOCATION AND ABANDONMENT
                    9.1     Relocation for Public Improvement Projects. In the event Licensor desires to replace,
            relocate, modify, demolish, or in any way alter Licensor-owned property in connection with a Public
            Improvement Project in a manner likely to cause Interference with Licensee’s Small Wireless Installation,
            Licensor shall have the right to cause Licensee to relocate its Small Wireless Installation subject to the
            terms and conditions set forth herein; provided, however, Licensor shall use reasonable efforts to fully
            accommodate Licensee's continuing use of the Small Wireless Installation without relocation if it is
            reasonably possible to do so. Licensee assumes all risk and costs of relocation when submitting an
            Application and using the public right-of-way for its Small Wireless Installations.
                               (a)      Relocation.      If Licensor’s Public Improvement Project requires Licensee to
            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                         6
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            relocate its Small Wireless Installation from all or any portion of the right-of-way, Licensor shall have the
            right to require Licensee to relocate the Permitted Site upon the following terms and conditions: (i) Licensor
            shall deliver to Licensee a Relocation Notice to relocate the Small Wireless Installation; (ii) Licensor shall
            identify a suitable alternate location that provides substantially similar signal coverage for the Wireless
            Facility as that of the Permitted Site being relocated; (iii) such relocation will be performed exclusively by
            Licensee with costs allocated in accordance with Laws; (iv) Licensee shall have ninety (90) days from
            receipt of the Relocation Notice to relocate the Small Wireless Installation; (v) Licensee shall have the right
            to operate a temporary Small Wireless Facility, if feasible, in a mutually agreeable location in the vicinity
            of the Permitted Site during such relocation with no additional fee due to Licensor; and (vi) the applicable
            Fee for the Permit shall not abate, provided that Licensee can operate such a temporary Small Wireless
            Facility. Licensee shall not be required to pay any additional application, review or other Licensor fees in
            connection with any relocation initiated by Licensor. If in Licensee’s reasonable judgment no suitable
            Relocation location can be found, then Licensee shall have the right to terminate the applicable Permit for
            which Licensor is requiring relocation upon written notice to Licensor, and without penalty or further
            obligation.
                            (b)   Relocation In The Event of An Emergency. Notwithstanding Section 9.1(a) above,
            in the event of an Emergency, Licensor will endeavor to provide as much notice to Licensee for the
            relocation of the Small Wireless Installation as warranted by the circumstances pertaining to the
            Emergency.
                     9.2     Decommission by Licensor. If Licensor determines to decommission any Licensor-owned
            Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure on which a Licensee-owned Small Wireless Facility is installed,
            then Licensor shall give Licensee at least sixty (60) days’ prior written notice of Licensor’s intent to take
            such action. Licensee must remove or otherwise dispose of its Wireless Facilities within this sixty (60) day
            period, at which time the Permit shall automatically terminate.
                     9.3      Abandonment by Licensee. Licensor may deem a Small Wireless Installation Abandoned
            by Licensee if: (i) use of the Small Wireless Installation has been discontinued for a continuous period of
            twelve (12) months; (ii) Licensor has notified Licensee that the Small Wireless Installation fails to conform
            with any term of this Agreement, the associated Permit, or Laws, and such nonconforming condition has
            not been remedied within sixty (60) days of notification; or (iii) the Permit associated with the Small
            Wireless Installation has expired or been terminated and Licensee has not removed the Small Wireless
            Installation within sixty (60) days pursuant to Section 12.5 of this Agreement. If any Small Wireless
            Installation is deemed Abandoned under this section, Licensee shall remove the Small Wireless Installation
            within thirty (30) days of the Licensor’s notice of such Abandonment and shall repair and restore the City
            Right-of-Way to a similar or better condition than at the time of the installation. If Licensee fails to remove
            the Small Wireless Installation, Licensee retains the right to do so at Licensee’s expense. The City shall
            have the right to inspect and approve the condition of the City Right-of-Way and any Licensor-owned
            property affected by the Small Wireless Installation prior to and after its removal. The liability, indemnity,
            and insurance provisions of this chapter and any security required of Licensee shall continue in full force
            and effect during the period of removal and until full compliance by a provider with the terms and conditions
            of this section.
            10. INSURANCE AND BOND
                    10.1    Certificate of Insurance. Licensee shall at its sole expense maintain the insurance coverage
            and limits required by this Section during the Term of this Agreement. Licensee agrees to procure the
            required insurance from an insurance company having and maintaining an A.M. Best rating of at least A VII
            and deliver to a Licensor a Certificate of Insurance evidencing the types of insurance and policy limits
            required.
                     10.2      Required Insurance.
                            (a)     Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability insurance, as required by
            statute, with Employer’s Liability limits of $1,000,000 each accident, $1,000,000 by disease policy limits,

            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                        7
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            and $1,000,000 by disease each employee. To the extent allowed by law, the policy must include a blanket
            waiver of subrogation in favor of Licensor.
                          (b)     Commercial General Liability insurance written on Insurance Services Office
            (ISO) Form CG 00 01 or a substitute form providing equivalent coverage, with limits of:
                               $3,000,000       General Aggregate Limit
                               $2,000,000       Each Occurrence
                               $2,000,000       Each Occurrence - Personal Injury
                               $2,000,000       Products/Completed Operations Aggregate Limit
                            The required Commercial General Liability policy must include Licensor as an additional
            insured on a primary and non-contributory basis and a waiver of subrogation in favor of Licensor.
                            (c)     Business Automobile Liability insurance with limits of $2,000,000 Combined
             Single Limit for each Accident for Bodily Injury and Property Damage, extending to all company owned,
             leased, and non-owned vehicles.
                     10.3    Notice of Cancellation. Licensee may meet the required insurance coverage and limits
            with any combination of primary and umbrella/excess liability insurance. Licensee shall provide at least
            thirty (30) days advance written notice of cancellation or non-renewal of any required insurance that is not
            replaced. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Licensee may self-insure the required insurance under the same
            terms and conditions as outlined above.
                    10.4 Compliance Bond. Upon approval of an Application, Licensee shall be required to post a
            bond in the amount of $5,000 for each Small Wireless Installation, such bond to be held and maintained
            during the entire period of Licensee's operation of each Small Wireless Installation in the City, as a
            guarantee of compliance with this Agreement, City law, the associated Permit, and all other local, state,
            and federal requirements. This bond may be used for any costs incurred by the Licensor to cure
            Licensee’s non-compliance.
            11. INDEMNIFICATION
                     11.1    Indemnification by Licensee. To the extent permitted by law, Licensee shall indemnify,
            hold harmless and, at Licensor’s sole option, defend Licensor Indemnitees, and each of them, from and
            against any and all liabilities, damages or claims for damage, including but not limited to all actual and
            reasonable costs, attorneys’ fees, and other charges and expenditures that Licensor Indemnitees, or any of
            them, may incur, asserted by third parties against Licensor Indemnitees, or any of them, by reason of the
            installation, operation, use, repair, or removal of any Small Wireless Installation or breach of the terms of
            this Agreement by Licensee, including acts or omissions by its agents, contractors, or subcontractors, except
            to the extent that such liabilities, damages or claims are a result of the negligence or willful misconduct of
            Licensor Indemnitees, or any of them.
                      11.2    Indemnification by Licensor. To the extent permitted by law, and except for the waiver of
            subrogation granted by Licensee under Section 10.2(a) above, Licensor shall indemnify, hold harmless and,
            at Licensee’s sole option, defend Licensee Indemnitees, and each of them, from and against any and all
            liabilities, damages or claims for damage, including but not limited to all actual and reasonable costs,
            attorneys’ fees, and other charges and expenditures that Licensee Indemnitees, and any of them, may incur,
            asserted by third parties against Licensee Indemnitees, or any of them, by reason of the breach of the terms
            of this Agreement by Licensor, including acts or omissions by its agents, contractors, or subcontractors
            except to the extent that such liabilities, damages or claims are a result of the negligence or willful
            misconduct of Licensee Indemnitees, or any of them.
            12. DEFAULT AND TERMINATION
                    12.1    Licensee’s Default and Licensor’s Remedies. If Licensee is in Default, pursuant to the
            defined term, then thereafter Licensor may elect any of the following remedies:

            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                       8
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




                             (a) terminate this Agreement, which shall terminate all Permits granted thereunder,
            provided that: such default affects this Agreement as a whole; such default affects a substantial number of
            Permits granted pursuant to this Agreement; or Licensee has established a pattern of non-compliance with
            this Agreement.
                             (b) if applicable, suspend Licensee’s access to any Licensor-owned property, including
            Utility Poles and Wireless Support Structures, to which the Default pertains;
                             (c) terminate the specific Permit(s) or affected portion thereof covering the Small Wireless
            Installation to which the Default pertains;
                               (d) require Licensee’s obligation to which the Default has been declared to be specifically
            performed;
                               (e) use the compliance bond to cure the Default at the expense of the Licensee; or
                              (f) maintain an action at law against Licensee for damages directly incurred by Licensor
            arising directly from Licensee’s uncured Default.
                    12.2     Termination by Licensee. Licensee may terminate this Agreement without cause by
            providing sixty (60) days’ notice to Licensor.
                     12.3      Voluntary Termination of Permit.
                            (a)   A Permit may be terminated by Licensee for any reason or no reason at any time
            prior to the Commencement Date effective upon written notice to Licensor.
                             (b)     A Permit may be terminated by Licensee after the Commencement Date for any
            reason or no reason, and such termination shall be effective following: thirty (30) days’ written notice to
            Licensor, the removal of the Small Wireless Installation pursuant to sections 12.5(a)–(d) of this Agreement,
            and Licensee’s payment to Licensor of a termination fee equal Twenty-Five Percent (25%) of the Fee, at
            the then-current rate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such termination fee will be payable on account of
            the termination of a Permit by Licensor, or by Licensee under any termination provision contained in the
            following Sections of this Agreement: Section 9.1, 9.2, 12.1, 12.2, 12.3(a) or 13. Additionally, in the event
            Licensee has paid a Fee to Licensor for the use of the Permitted Site, then Licensor shall have the right to
            retain such Fee without refund or other credit to Licensee.
                    12.4    Licensor’s Default and Licensee’s Remedies. If Licensor is in Default, then Licensee
            may terminate this Agreement or elect to pursue any rights or remedies available to Licensee at law or in
            equity.
                     12.5    Removal and Replacement after Termination. Within sixty (60) days following expiration
            or early termination of any Permit, Licensee shall, as appropriate:
                            (a) restore to the original condition, excluding normal wear and tear, any existing Utility
            Pole or Wireless Support Structure on which Licensee installed, operated, maintained, or replaced a Small
            Wireless Facility pursuant to the Permit;
                              (b) remove any new Utility Pole installed pursuant to the Permit and restore the Permitted
            Site to its original condition;
                             (c) remove any non-decorative Replacement Utility Pole installed pursuant to the Permit
            and install either the original Utility Pole or a new Utility Pole substantially similar to the original pole in
            size, appearance, and functionality; or
                             (d) reinstall any original Decorative Pole replaced and stored by Licensee pursuant to
            section 10.4 of this Agreement.


            13. CASUALTY. In the event of damage, to any Licensor-owned Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure
            on which Licensee’s Small Wireless Facility is installed, due to a Casualty Event that cannot reasonably be
            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                         9
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            expected to be repaired within forty-five (45) days following such Casualty Event or which Licensor elects
            not to repair, or if such Casualty Event can reasonably be expected to disrupt Licensee’s operations on the
            Licensor-owned Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure for more than forty-five (45) days, then Licensee
            may elect from among the following alternatives at any time following such Casualty Event: (i) terminate
            the applicable Permit or affected portion thereof upon fifteen (15) days’ written notice to Licensor; (ii)
            place and operate a temporary facility, if feasible and approved by Licensor, at a mutually agreeable location
            in the vicinity of and reasonably equivalent to Licensee’s current use of the Licensor-owned property until
            such time as the Licensor-owned property is restored and the Small Wireless Facility is returned to full on-
            air operation in the ordinary course of Licensee’s business; or (iii) submit a new Application for an alternate
            location equivalent to Licensee’s current use of the Licensor-owned property, in which case Licensor shall
            waive the application fee and transfer all remaining rights to the new location as long as such relocation
            was due to a Casualty Event not caused by Licensee. If Licensee elects to terminate the Permit, notice of
            termination shall cause the applicable Permit or affected portion thereof to terminate with the same force
            and effect as though the date set forth in such notice were the date originally set as the expiration date of
            the applicable Permit. Licensee will be entitled to collect from its insurer all insurance proceeds payable to
            Licensee on account thereof, including any portion of any prepaid Fee on a pro rata basis. If Licensee does
            not elect to terminate the applicable Permit, then the Fee shall fully abate during the period of repair
            following such Casualty Event until the date that either the temporary facility is placed and operational as
            provided in (ii) above, or the Wireless Facility or Licensor-owned Utility Pole or Wireless Support Structure
            is relocated as provided in (iii) above.
            14. MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
                     14.1     Notices. All notices, requests and demands hereunder will be given by first class certified
            or registered mail, return receipt requested, or by a nationally recognized overnight courier, postage prepaid,
            to be effective when properly sent and received, refused or returned undelivered. Notices will be addressed
            to the parties as follows:
              If to Licensee (including invoices):                          If to Licensor:
                                                                            _____________________________
              [Name of Company]                                             _____________________________
              Attn: [enter]                                                 _____________________________
              Re: Wireless Facilities in the Right-of-Way                   _____________________________
              (City of ____) (__)
              FA No.: _________________________
              [street name]
              [city],[state] [zip code]
              With a copy to the [company] Legal
              Department:

              [Name of Company]
              Attn: [enter]
              Re: Wireless Facilities in the Right-of-Way
              (City of ____) (__)
              FA No.: _________________________
              [street name]
              [city],[state] [zip code]

            Contact Number for day to day operation:
            Licensor:          _____________
            Licensee:          _____________

            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                       10
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            Any Party may change its address or other contact information at any time by giving the other Party, and
            Persons named above, written notice of said change.
                   14.2    Force Majeure. Time periods for performance under this Agreement shall be deemed
            extended day for day for time lost attributable to any delay resulting from any Event of Force Majeure.
                     14.3    Assignment and Transfer. This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit
            of, the authorized successors and assigns of the Parties. Except as otherwise provided in this Agreement,
            neither Party shall assign this Agreement or its rights or obligations to any firm, corporation, individual, or
            other entity, without the written consent of the other Party, which consent shall not be unreasonably
            withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon thirty (30) days’ written notice, either Party may assign this
            Agreement or its rights or obligations (a) to an Affiliate or (b) in connection with the sale or other transfer
            of substantially all of Licensee’s assets in the FCC market area where the Small Wireless Installations are
            located.
                    14.4    Compliance with Laws. Licensee and Licensor agree to comply with Laws. Nothing in this
            Agreement shall relieve Licensee of any obligation to obtain all other regulatory approvals, permits,
            authorizations or licenses for the offering or providing of such services from the appropriate Federal, State,
            and local authorities. Such obligations include, but are not limited to, licenses from the FCC to operate
            wireless transmitters or any permit or other authorization required to: conduct business within the City, use
            property owned by the City or third parties, or excavate or perform other work in or along the City Right-
            of-Way.
                     14.5  Applicable Law. This Agreement shall be interpreted, construed, and enforced in
            accordance with the laws of Utah without regard to its conflict-of-laws principles, and, where applicable,
            federal law.
                     14.6     Alternative Dispute Resolution. If a dispute arises out of or relating to this Agreement or
            any Permit, or the alleged breach thereof, and if the dispute cannot be settled through negotiation, the Parties
            agree first to try in good faith to settle the dispute by mediation before resorting to litigation or some other
            dispute resolution procedure, unless the Parties mutually agree otherwise in writing. The mediator shall be
            mutually selected by the Parties. In case of disagreement, the mediator shall be selected by lot from among
            two nominations of mediators within twenty (20) miles of Park City, Utah provided by each Party. All costs
            and fees required by the mediator shall be split equally by the Parties, otherwise each Party shall bear its
            own costs of mediation. If mediation fails to resolve the dispute within ninety (90) days after the demand
            for mediation, either Party may pursue litigation to resolve the dispute. Demand for mediation shall be in
            writing and delivered to the other Party to this Agreement and shall be made within a reasonable time after
            the claim, dispute, or other matter in question has arisen.
                     14.7     Change of Law. Either Party may, upon thirty (30) days’ written notice, require that the
            terms of this Agreement that are affected by any New Law be renegotiated to conform to the New Law on
            a going-forward basis for all existing and new Small Wireless Installations. In the event that the Parties are
            unable to agree upon any new fees, rates, or terms of conditions within ninety (90) days after such notice,
            then any fees, rates, or terms contained in the New Law shall apply as of the effective date of the New Law
            until the negotiations are completed or until a Party obtains a ruling regarding the appropriate conforming
            terms from a commission or court of competent jurisdiction. Except as provided in the preceding sentence,
            all terms in the existing Agreement shall remain in effect while the parties are negotiating.
                    14.8    Exhibits. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and
            any Exhibits attached hereto, the provisions of this Agreement shall supersede the provisions of any such
            incorporated Exhibits unless such Exhibit specifies otherwise.
                    14.9    Waiver; Severability. No provision of this Agreement may be waived except in a writing
            signed by both Parties. The failure of either Party to insist on the strict enforcement of any provision of this
            Agreement shall not constitute a waiver of any provision. If any portion of this Agreement is found to be
            unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in effect, and the Parties shall begin negotiations for a
            replacement of the invalid or unenforceable portion.

            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                        11
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




                    14.10 Survival. The terms and provisions of this Agreement, that by their nature require
            performance by either Party after the termination or expiration of this Agreement, shall be and remain
            enforceable notwithstanding such termination or expiration of this Agreement for any reason whatsoever.
                    14.11 Entire Agreement; Amendments. This Agreement (including the Exhibits hereto)
            embodies the entire agreement between Licensee and Licensor with respect to the subject matter of this
            Agreement and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, oral or written,
            with respect thereto. Each Party acknowledges that the other Party has not made any representations other
            than those contained herein. This Agreement may not be amended or modified orally, but only by an
            agreement in writing signed by the Party or Parties against whom any waiver, change, amendment,
            modification, or discharge may be sought to be enforced.
                    14.12 Execution in Counterparts. This Agreement may be executed in multiple counterparts,
            including by counterpart facsimiles or scanned email counterpart signature, each of which shall be deemed
            an original, and all such counterparts once assembled together shall constitute one integrated instrument.
                   14.13 Electronic Signatures. This Agreement, and any other documents requiring a signature
            hereunder, may be signed electronically by the parties.




                                        [SIGNATURES APPEAR ON FOLLOWING PAGE]




            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way                  12
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




            IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed as of the
            Effective Date.


              [FULL NAME OF LICENSOR]                                       [Company Name]

                                                                            By: [Person name]
                                                                            Its: [Position]



                                                                            By:
              By:

                                                                            Name:
              Name:

                                                                            Its:
              Its:

                                                                            Date:
              Date:




            License Agreement for Small Wireless Installations in the Public Right-of-Way         13
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




                                                             EXHIBIT 1


                                                             Application
DocuSign Envelope ID: FE5E58F4-C4AF-4363-84DB-11A4C91117F8




                                                             EXHIBIT 2


                                                         Design Standards
