DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




            Ordinance No. 2022-23

              AN ORDINANCE AMENDING THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF PARK CITY TITLE 4
             GENERAL LICENSING SECTION 4-1-1 DEFINITIONS; 4-2-13 OUTDOOR SALES; 4-
                 2-4 USE OF PUBLIC PROPERTY; 4-3-2 SPECIFIC ADDITIONAL LICENSE
             APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS; 4-3-4 CODE COMPLIANCE INSPECTION; 4-5-1
              REGULATION OF VENDING MACHINES AND MECHANICAL DEVICES; 4-5-3
              REGULATION OF NIGHTLY RENTALS; 4-5-6 REGULATION OF FOOD TRUCK
               LOCATIONS; 4-6-4 SINGLE EVENT ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE LICENSE; 4-7-5
              UMBRELLA ORGANIZERS; 4-7-6 STATE TAX NUMBER; 4-8-5 BACKGROUND
               CHECK REQUIREMENT; 4-9-1 MOBILE VENDORS GENERAL; 4-9-3 MOBILE
                                      VENDORS CONDITIONS

            WHEREAS, in 2022, the Utah legislature enacted H.B. 146, expanding the definition of Food
            Truck to include food carts and ice cream trucks;

            WHEREAS, in 2022, the Utah legislature enacted S.B. 176, changing the name of the Department
            of Alcoholic Beverage Control and increasing the number of allowable single event permits;

            WHEREAS, the City Council finds that it is in the public interest to clarify and refine the written
            laws, regulations, and ordinances contained in Title 4 of the Municipal Licensing Code so that
            citizens can easily access information and;

            WHEREAS, the City Council conducted a duly noticed public hearing on July 14, 2022.

            NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Park City, Utah, as follows:

            Section I: Approval of Amendments to Title 4. Title 4, Licensing, is hereby amended as redlined
            in Exhibit A.

            Section II: Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 14th day of July, 2022.

                                                                PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                                   __________________________________
                                                                                     Mayor Nann Worel

            Attest:


            _________________________________
            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




            Approved as to form:



            ________________________________
            City Attorney’s Office
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




            4-1-1 Definitions

            BEDROOM. Each room in a hotel, motel, lodge, condominium project, single family
            residence, fractional ownership or timeshare project, condominium project, single family
            residence, or other Nightly Lodging Facility that is intended primarily for the temporary
            use of transient guests for sleeping purposes.



            COMMERCIAL VEHICLES AND TRAILERS & CONSULTANT LICENSE. Motor
            vehicles used for a Business’s normal activities, but not used to transport people to,
            from, and within Park City for a Fare. Such vehicles include but are not limited to
            vehicles used for deliveries, cleaning or consulting, commercial hauling, and snow
            removal services, as well as cargo rental vehicles, concrete trucks, and dump trucks.

            DABSC. The Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage ControlServices.


            MOBILE VENDOR. One who sells non-food goods such as food, flowers, agricultural
            products, ice cream, candy, popcorn, or other goods or merchandise from push carts,
            mobile wagons, or motor vehicles and has a franchise to sell items in the Right of Way.
            Mobile Vendors do not include Food Truck Operators.

            SQUARE FOOTAGE. The aggregate number of square feet of area within a Place of
            Business that is used by a licensee Engaging in Business.

            UNIT. Any separately rented portion of a hotel, motel, condominium, apartment building,
            single family residence, duplex, triplex, or other residential dwelling without limitation.

            UNSOLICITED DELIVERY. The delivery of any unsolicited newspaper or publication,
            sample product, or advertising material. Unsolicited newspapers or publications, sample
            products, or advertising material shall include, but not be limited to, handbills describing
            or offering goods or services for sale, any goods or products that were not previously
            ordered by the homeowner or occupant, any newspaper or publication delivered without
            a subscription by the owner or occupant, and any coupons or rebate offers for goods
            and services.

            4-2-13 Outdoor Sales

            Sidewalk Sale permits are not issued during Special Events. However, the Finance
            Department may grant a license to regularly licensed retail and service based Park City
            businesses, per the Land Management Code, to hold outdoor sales five (5) times a year
            for a duration of no longer than three (3) days for each outdoor sale, and additionally for
            up to fifteen (15) individual Sundays per calendar year, either within the Business's own
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




            property or on public sidewalks or streets adjoining the Place of Business on the
            following terms:

            4-2-4 Use Of Public Property

            The City Council may grant specific temporary licenses to applicants to sell food,
            alcoholic beverages, or merchandise in City parks or at other locations on public
            property. In granting these temporary licenses, preferences shall be given to Non-Profit
            Corporations and civic groups before profit-making businesses are licensed to conduct
            a temporary Business within the parks or on other City property. Such licenses shall be
            issued only after the appropriate City department approves the temporary license and
            the City executes a concessions or franchise contract with the temporary licensee.


            4-3-2 Specific Additional License Application Requirements

                A. Alcoholic Beverages. Applications for all alcoholic beverage licenses must
                   include the following additional information:
                       1. The street address of the Place of Business;
                       2. A Background Check Certificate obtained from the Utah Bureau of
                          Criminal Identification and issued no earlier than one year before the date
                          of application;
                       3.2.       Proof that the applicant has complied with the requirements
                          specified in the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act;
                       4.3.       The location of any other alcoholic beverage licenses held by the
                          applicant;
                       5.4.       The name and Utah address for the Business’s agent for service of
                          process;
                       6.5.       A signature by the applicant stating under oath that the facts
                          contained therein are true; and
                       6. If the applicant is a partnership, association, corporation, or limited liability
                          company the applicant shall include a certificate of existence, a copy of
                          the articles of incorporation or the written partnership agreement, and the
                          name, street and mailing address, age, citizenship, and Background
                          Check Certificate from the Utah Bureau of Criminal Identification for each
                          officer, partner, or director.
                       7. An affirmation indicating each officer, partner, or director meets the
                          licensee qualifications set forth in the statutes of Utah and this Title.

                B. Single Event Temporary Liquor License. Applications for a Single Event
                   Temporary Liquor License must include the following additional information:
                      1. The street address of the Place of Business;
                      2. A notarized and detailed statement by the applicant certifying their criminal
                         history;
                      2. Proof that the applicant has complied with the requirements specified in
                         the Alcoholic Beverage Control Act;
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




                         3. The location of any other alcoholic beverage licenses held by the
                            applicant;
                         4. The name and Utah address for the Business’s agent for service of
                            process;
                         5. A signature by the applicant stating under oath that the facts contained
                            therein are true;
                         6. A certificate of existence, or a copy of the articles of incorporation, or the
                            written partnership agreement, or other applicable documentation showing
                            the entity has been in existence for at least one (1) calendar year prior to
                            the date of application;
                         7. The name, contact information, and/or any other information needed by
                            the City to verify each officer, partner, or director meets the requirements
                            set forth in the statutes of Utah and this Title; and
                         8. An affirmation indicating each officer, partner, or director meets the
                            licensee qualifications set forth in the statutes of Utah and this Title.
                         9. Within the HCB and HRC Districts, Aa Single Event Temporary Liquor
                            Permit may only be issued for those Vibrant locations within the HCB and
                            HRC Districts that are Vibrant as Defined in Section 4-2-15.

                C. Nightly Rentals. All new and renewal applications for nightly rentals must first
                   pass a Business License Inspection from the Building Department and must also
                   contain the following information:
                      1. Owner’s name;
                      2. Legal address including unit number of each Unit;
                      3. The name, address, and telephone number of a local responsible party
                          who is available by telephone twenty- four (24) hours per day;
                      4. Utah State Tax ID number; and
                      5. Supplements to the application and cover letter with any information that
                          changes.




            4-3-4 Code Compliance Inspection

                A. INSPECTIONS FOR CODE COMPLIANCE. Prior to applying for a license under
                   this Title for a A new Business not previously licensed at that a location, or an
                   existing Business with a change of Square Footage, use, or location, the
                   applicant shall be required to have the prospective Place of Business inspected
                   prior to application by the Building Department, and if necessary, other
                   government agencies to ensure compliance with building, fire, municipal, and
                   health codes. Except if the Business is a Conventional Chain Business located
                   within a Storefront Property in the HRC or HCB Districts, the applicant may apply
                   without an Inspection, but must provide a A copy of the Business License
                   inspection report showing passed prior to the License being must be provided
                   prior to the License being issued.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




                B. NOTICE OF INFRACTION. No license can be applied forissued until the required
                   inspection reveals that the prospective Place of Business is in substantial
                   compliance with the building, fire, and health codes. If during the inspection
                   process any code infractions are found, corrections shall be made and a re-
                   inspection scheduled within a reasonable period as identified by the inspector or
                   Chief Building Official not to exceed thirty (30) calendar days.

            4-5 Regulation Of Specific Businesses
            4-5-1 Repealed by Ord. 2022-24 on 7/14/2022

            4-5-1 Regulation Of Vending Machines And Mechanical Devices

            It shall be unlawful to install, or permit to be installed, any kind of mechanical device
            operated by coin, token, or currency, which sells goods, merchandise, food, beverages,
            candy, or entertainment services without first having paid the applicable fee on that
            mechanical device. Further, it shall be unlawful for any Person to permit a machine to
            be placed on or within his/her premises or Place of Business any such mechanical
            device on which the fee has not been paid.

            4-5-3 Regulation Of Nightly Rentals

            All nightly rental Units must be inspected by the Building Department and issued a
            license before being offered for rent.

                A. LICENSEE. The licensee for rentals under this Section shall be the owner. The
                   local representative shall be deemed the responsible party.
                B. MANAGEMENT STANDARDS. The authorized lodging must be properly
                   managed. As a condition to holding a valid license, the licensee agrees to
                   provide or arrange for adequate property management services. In the event an
                   owner's association exists, it shall be responsible for property maintenance. In
                   the event an owner agrees to be responsible for property maintenance, the
                   licensee must present a statement to that effect signed by the owner. The
                   minimum services and management regulations required include:

                         1. Snow removal during winter months to a level that allows safe access to
                            the building over the normal pedestrian access to the Unit;
                         2. Snow removal service to off-street parking facilities associated with the
                            rental property so that off-street parking is at all times available for
                            occupant use;
                         3. Summer yard maintenance, including landscaping, weed control, and
                            irrigation to a level that is consistent with the level of landscaping and
                            maintenance on adjoining and nearby properties;
                         4. Structural maintenance to preserve substantial code compliance as
                            described herein is required;
                         5. Routine upkeep, including painting and repair to a level that is consistent
                            with the level of maintenance on adjoining or nearby properties;
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




                       6. Trash collection which ensures that trash cans are not left at the curb for
                           any period in excess of twenty-four (24) hours; the property must be kept
                           free from accumulated garbage and refuse;
                       7. Housekeeping service as a part of hotel or property management
                           company included in property management license;
                       8. On-street parking for nightly rental uses shall not result in an obstruction to
                           traffic and pedestrian circulation or public safety;
                       9. No outdoor display of goods and merchandise shall be permitted as part
                           of any nightly rental use;
                       10. Unless expressly permitted under the Municipal Sign Code, no signs will
                           be permitted for nightly rental uses;
                       11. Nightly rentals may not be used for commercial uses not otherwise
                           permitted in the zone. Nightly rentals may not be converted to Corporate
                           Sponsor or Business houses which are used primarily to distribute retail
                           products or personal services to invitees for marketing or similar purposes,
                           regardless of whether such products or services are charged for. A
                           Corporate Sponsor is any Business enterprise or combination of Business
                           enterprises which provide funding for any special event in the amount of
                           fifty percent (50%) or more of the funds necessary to promote the event or
                           account for fifty percent (50%) or more of the event operating expenditure
                           budget.
                C. NOISE AND OCCUPANCY CONTROL. The licensee and the owner of rentals
                   under this Section are responsible for regulating the occupancy of the Unit and
                   noise created by the occupants of the Unit. Violation of the Noise Ordinance,
                   violation of occupancy loads, failure to use designated off-street parking, illegal
                   conduct, or any other abuse, which violates any law regarding use or occupancy
                   of the premises, is grounds for revocation. Failure to collect and deposit sales tax
                   is also a violation of the license and grounds for revocation.
                D. REVIEW CRITERIA. In determining whether or not a Business license for rental
                   authorized under this Section shall be issued, the application shall be reviewed to
                   see if, in addition to standards and conditions applicable to issuance of all
                   Business licenses, the following conditions and standards are met:

                         1. The Unit is located within a zone and subzone designated as allowing
                            rentals for the period which the license is applied for;
                         2. The access to the rental Unit and the layout of the Unit is such that noise
                            and physical trespass from the proposed rental Unit is not likely to be a
                            substantial intrusion to the adjoining properties. If the proposed rental Unit
                            is a single family home or duplex and shares an access, hallway, common
                            wall, or driveway with another dwelling, written consent of the owner of the
                            other dwelling is required;
                         3. The applicant must designate a responsible party. The responsible party
                            must be a property management company, realtor, lawyer, owner, or other
                            individual, who resides within a 1-hour drive of the property, or, in the case
                            of a company, has offices in Summit County. The responsible party is
                            personally liable for the failure to properly manage the rental. The
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




                            responsible party must be available by telephone, or otherwise, twenty-
                            four (24) hours per day, and must be able to respond to telephone
                            inquiries within twenty (20) minutes of receipt of such inquiries. The
                            responsible party is also designated as the agent for receiving all official
                            communications under this Title from Park City. If the licensee is a
                            property management company or individual other than the owner, such
                            company or individual must comply with applicable state law, including the
                            Securities Division Real Estate Division in the Utah Code, as amended,
                            which requires those who receive valuable consideration to lease property
                            to have a state license;
                         4. The application must bear a sales tax collection and accounting number
                            for the rental operation. This number may be the sales tax accounting
                            number used by the property management company responsible for
                            that Unit, or may be specific to the Unit, but no license will be effective
                            until the sales tax number is provided.

            4-5-6 Regulation Of Food Trucks Locations

            A licensed Food Truck must be properly managed in an approved Food Truck
            Location. The applicant shall ensure that a Food Truck Location is operated in a
            manner consistent with the following:

                A. Location and Site Requirements. Food Trucks must be properly licensed and
                   may only operate at approved Food Truck Locations.

                       1. Size and location of the Site shall be located within a zone designated as
                          allowing Food Truck Locations; and
                       2. Food Truck(s) must not be located within ten feet (10') of the extension of
                          any building entranceway, doorway, or emergency egress; and
                       3. Food Truck(s) shall not operate within the right-of-way unless a franchise
                          agreement has been granted; ; and
                       4. On lots less than one-half (1/2) acre, no more than one (1) Food Truck is
                          allowed to operate:.
                B. Site Requirements
                       1.5.      Food Truck(s) and/or patrons must not impede safe movement of
                          vehicular and pedestrian traffic, snow removal, parking lot circulation or
                          access to any public alley, access easement, or sidewalks and pathways;
                          and
                       2.6.      Food Truck(s) shall be sited on an approved hard-surfaced area;
                          and
                       3. Signs and lighting shall be affixed to the Food Truck. Signs shall comply
                          with Title 12 Sign Code and lighting shall comply with LMC 15-5-5(J)
                          Lighting.
                       4.7.      Food Truck(s) shall not have a drive-through; and
                       5.8.      Shall provide trash and recycling pickup areas and shall identify the
                          location of restroom facilities; and
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




                      6.9.      Food Truck Locations may not occupy code required parking areas
                         for previously approved Development Activity, except for public parking
                         areas approved by a concession contract by City Council in the Historic
                         Commercial Business District.
                B. Sales Within the Public Right-of-Way and Franchise Agreements.

                         1. In order to control vending within any public right-of-way in Park City, only
                            those Food Trucks who have obtained the grant of a franchise from the
                            City or under a permitted Special Event may operate within the public
                            right-of-way. Absent all proper permitting, vending within any public right-
                            of-way is strictly prohibited.
                         2. The City, in its sole discretion, may determine the number of franchises to
                            award based upon public necessity, demand of service, pedestrian and
                            vehicular traffic compatibility, competition, and public safety. Any violation
                            of the franchise agreement is grounds for voiding the franchise
                            agreement, in addition to any other remedy at law.
                C. Operation Requirements. Unless a franchise agreement or permit specifies
                   operation requirements for a specific Food Truck different from the requirements
                   in this section, Food Truck(s) must be operated in a manner consistent with the
                   following:
                         1. Food Truck(s) may not park in one location for more than twelve (12)
                            hours during any twenty-four (24) hour period; and
                         2. Food Truck(s) in Commercial Zoning Districts shall operate no later than
                            2:00 a.m;.
                         3. Food Truck(s) in Residential Zoning Districts shall operate no later than
                            10:00 p.m;.
                         4. Amplified music or noise is not permitted; and
                         5. If proposed, there shall be a designated plan for the control of delivery and
                            service vehicles, delivery of supplies, loading and unloading zones; and
                         6. Food Truck(s) shall be occupied by the owner or operator at all times; and
                         7. Food Truck Locations within 500 feet of a Level Four and/or Level Five
                            Special Event area may have Conditions of Approval restricting operation
                            during a Special Event period;.
                         8. Signs and lighting shall be affixed to the Food Truck(s). Signs shall
                            comply with Title 12 Sign Code and lighting shall comply and LMC 15-5-
                            5(J) Lighting; and
                         9. Food Trucks may only operate on property that has been issued a Food
                            Truck Conditional Use Permit under Title 15, Land Management Code.
                            Food Trucks may only operate on private property with the express prior
                            written permission of a person with authority to act on behalf of the
                            property owner. The written permission shall include any restrictions such
                            as specific location on the property, hours of operation, limitations on
                            employee and/or public sales, etc. Food Trucks are prohibited on City
                            property except as authorized in writing by the City on City-owned
                            property for which a Food Truck Conditional Use Permit under Title 15,
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




                       Land Management Code, has been issued. The Food Truck, while
                       operating, shall produce the written permission upon request of an
                       authorized City official.
                D. Homemade Food Producer
                       7.     Those producing homemade food or homemade food products
                       pursuant to the Home Consumption and Homemade Food Act are
                       required to obtain a Business license pursuant to this Title but may be
                       exempt from health department approval required in Subsection A so long
                       as the producer meets the requirements outlined in Utah Code Ann. 4-5a-
                       101 et seq., as amended.


            4-6-4 Single Event Alcoholic Beverage License

                A. Single Event Alcoholic Beverage License Required. It shall be unlawful for any
                   Person to sell or serve alcohol at any event within the City without first procuring
                   a Single Event Alcoholic Beverage License as required by this Title.

                         1. No alcoholic beverages may be served at any event(s) at which natural
                            Person(s) or entities (including, but not limited to corporations,
                            partnerships, unincorporated associations, or joint ventures) will be
                            Engaging In Business unless a Single Event Alcoholic Beverage License
                            is secured prior to the event. A City issued Single Event Alcoholic
                            Beverage License is required if Engaging In Business at an event, even if
                            a State Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control Sevices license is not
                            required.
                         2. In addition to the City license, a State Temporary Beer Event Permit, or
                            Single Event Permit shall be required for all sales of beer or liquor at any
                            event. No license may be transferred, assigned, or subleased in any
                            manner. Licenses are invalidated by transfer or attempted transfer. All
                            licensees shall comply with the provisions of the Alcoholic Beverage
                            Control Act and this Title.
                         3. A Single Event Alcoholic Beverage License shall grant a bona fide
                            association, corporation, church, or political organization, or a recognized
                            lodge, chapter, or other local unit that is conducting a convention, civic, or
                            community enterprise the privilege to store, sell, serve, and consume
                            alcoholic beverages in accordance with (i) an applicant’s State liquor
                            license or (ii) in case of Business activity where a State liquor license is
                            not required.
                         4. The privileges granted by this license shall be limited by the type of
                            temporary license or permit the applicant obtains from the State as
                            follows:
                                a. Where an applicant obtains a State Temporary Beer Event Permit,
                                   this license shall carry the privileges and responsibilities granted
                                   State Temporary Beer Event Permit holders and shall authorize the
                                   storage, sale, service, and consumption of beer for a period not to
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




                                  exceed thirty (30) days. A State Temporary Beer Event Permit may
                                  authorize multiple sales outlets on different properties under one
                                  State Temporary Beer Event Permit. No Person, entity, or
                                  association shall in any one (1) calendar year operate under a
                                  Single Event Alcoholic Beverage License for more than a total of
                                  ninety (90) days; or
                              b. Where an applicant obtains a State Single Event Permit, this
                                  license shall carry the privileges and responsibilities granted State
                                  Single Event Permit holders and shall authorize for a period not to
                                  exceed one-hundred and twenty (120) consecutive hours or five (5)
                                  consecutive days the storage, sale, service, and consumption of
                                  liquor. In any one (1) calendar year an applicant may not obtain
                                  more than: four single event permits if one or more of the single
                                  event permits is a 120 hour single event permit; or 24 single event
                                  permits if each of the single event permits issued is a 72 hour
                                  single event permit. In any one (1) calendar year an applicant may
                                  obtain up to twelve (12) licenses provided that all such licenses in
                                  the calendar year are for seventy-two (72) hours or fewer. If any
                                  license issued to an applicant within one (1) calendar year exceeds
                                  seventy-two (72) hours, applicant may obtain no more than four (4)
                                  Single Event liquor licenses for that one (1) calendar year.
                      5. Unless otherwise provided for in this Title, Single Event Alcoholic
                          Beverage Licenses shall be valid only if a licensee has received a State
                          liquor license from the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Commission for
                          the same event. All licensees must notify the Finance Manager or his/her
                          designee immediately if their State license is denied, revoked, or
                          suspended for any reason. In the event an applicant is not required to
                          obtain a State Temporary Beer Event Permit or State Single Event Permit,
                          the privileges granted by a Single Event Alcoholic Beverage License shall
                          be contingent upon the type of alcoholic beverages to be served at the
                          event as established by the Single Event Alcoholic Beverage License
                          application. Applicants serving only beer at an event shall receive the
                          privileges and shall be subject to the limitations described in (4)(a) above.
                          Applicants serving any liquor at an event shall receive the privileges and
                          shall be subject to the limitations described in (4)(b) above.
                      6. Subject to the limitations set forth in (4)(a) and (4)(b), a Single Event
                          Alcoholic Beverage License shall authorize the storage, sale, service, and
                          consumption of alcoholic beverages in conjunction with a Special Event,
                          convention, civic or community event and pursuant to the Utah Alcoholic
                          Beverage Control Act and the ordinances of Park City.
                      7. No Person under the age of twenty-one (21) shall sell or serve alcohol
                          under a Single Event Alcoholic Beverage License.
                B. Single Event Alcoholic Beverage License Application. Applications for a Single
                   Event Alcoholic Beverage License shall be made on behalf of a bona fide
                   association, corporation, church, or political organization, or a recognized lodge,
                   chapter, or other local unit, in writing, to the Finance Manager or his/her designee
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




                   and include the information as required in this Title. Applications may take up to
                   ten (10) business days to process. As provided by this Title, applicants may not
                   store, sell, serve, or otherwise facilitate the consumption of alcoholic beverages
                   by others until applicant has procured a license as required by this Chapter and,
                   if required, a State issued license.
                C. Single Event Alcoholic Beverage License Fee. The liquor License Fee shall be set
                   by resolution as listed in the Business License Fee Schedule for all Single Event
                   Alcoholic Beverage Licenses. The License Fees shall be used by the City to
                   defray, in part, the costs of alcohol related enforcement and responding to
                   alcohol related offenses within Park City. This License Fee may shall be waived
                   by the Finance Manager or his/her designee for Single Event Licenses issued to
                   Persons participating in community sponsored events, or in events sponsored by
                   or for the benefit of Non-Profit Corporation, or civic, religious, or charitable
                   organizations.

            4-7-5 Umbrella Organizers

            For Type 1 and 2 convention sales licenses, if multiple vendors are sharing a space, an
            umbrella organizer may obtain a convention sales license for the entire space as long
            as each individual vendor provides an individual tax identification number. The umbrella
            organizer will be charged a License Fee and, if applicable, the required trash payment
            fee for the umbrella license as well as a fee for each vendor listed on the application. All
            vendors included in the umbrella license must be located under one physical address.
            The umbrella organizer is also responsible for having an appropriate Business license.

            4-7-6 State Tax Number

            The applicant must provide an individual Utah sales tax identification number if sales
            transactions are taking place, federal tax identification numbers if only promotion or
            Gifting is taking place, as part of the license application to assist in verifying the
            collection and reporting of sales tax.

            4-8-5 Background Check Requirement

                1. Before a For-Hire Ground Transportation Business allows an individual to provide
                   For-Hire Ground Transportation services or drive a For-Hire Ground
                   Transportation Vehicle, the business shall obtain a criminal background check on
                   the individual.
                2. The criminal background check report or certificate shall be maintained by the
                   business forfro a minimum of three (3) years.

            4-9-1 General

            It shall be unlawful to sell non-food goods such asfood, flowers, agricultural products,
            ice cream, candy, popcorn, or other goods or merchandise from push carts, mobile
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




            wagons, or motor vehicles on private or public property except as authorized and
            licensed under this Title and Title 15, Land Management Code.

            4-9-3 Terms And Conditions

            Licensed Mobile Vendors shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:

                1. Health Department Approval. All Mobile Vendors serving food or garden
                   produce for human consumption from any cart, wagon, or motor vehicle must
                   have the means of preparing, keeping, and serving the foods approved by the
                   Summit County Health Department. This approval, in writing, must be submitted
                   as part of the license application. Withdrawal of Health Department approval for
                   sanitary or health violations is grounds for revocation of the City license.
                2.1.       Limitations On Locations. If a franchise has been obtained from the
                   City, Mobile Vendors vending from motor vehicles, which shall include any
                   motorized means of conveyance that is required to be licensed by the State
                   Division of Motor Vehicles shall be restricted in the Single Family Zone, the RD-
                   MPD Zones within Park Meadows, all Historic Residential Zones (HR-1, HR-2,
                   HRC, HRM), and Sullivan Lane, as designated on the Official Zoning Map of
                   Park City. Mobile Vendors are prohibited from vending in locations included in
                   any special event boundary. Mobile Vendors vending on City rights-of-way during
                   construction or other situations creating a public health or safety concern may be
                   prohibited by the City Engineer or Chief of Police. The City will inform any
                   franchise holder of these limitations and the duration of their effect.
                3.2.       Vendors Required To Move Location. It shall be unlawful for any Mobile
                   Vendor to obstruct pedestrian or vehicular traffic on streets or sidewalks. It shall
                   also be unlawful for any Mobile Vendor to remain in a fixed location for more than
                   one hour at a time. Mobile Vendors shall move a distance of at least fifty feet
                   (50') from their prior location every hour during which they are Conducting
                   Business. It shall be unlawful for any Mobile Vendor Engaging in Business in a
                   location that impairs reasonable pedestrian or vehicular access to any adjoining
                   building, alley, yard, or other property.
                4.3.       Franchise Agreement. The City, in its sole discretion, may determine the
                   number of franchises to award based upon public necessity, demand of service,
                   pedestrian and vehicular traffic compatibility, competition, and public safety. Any
                   violation of the franchise agreement is grounds for Business license
                   revocationvoiding the franchise agreement, in addition to any other remedy at
                   law.
                5. Food Truck Operator. Food Trucks may only operate on property that has been
                   issued a Food Truck Conditional Use Permit under Title 15, Land Management
                   Code. Food Trucks may only operate on private property with the express prior
                   written permission of a person with authority to act on behalf of the property
                   owner. The written permission shall include any restrictions such as specific
                   location on the property, hours of operation, limitations on employee and/or
                   public sales, etc. Food Trucks are prohibited on City property except as
                   authorized in writing by the City on City-owned property for which a Food Truck
DocuSign Envelope ID: 08A437DC-30D0-4575-9071-17DBE0D4CC45




                   Conditional Use Permit under Title 15, Land Management Code, has been
                   issued. The Food Truck, while operating, shall produce the written permission
                   upon request of an authorized City official.
                6. Homemade Food Producer. Those producing homemade food or homemade
                   food products pursuant to the Home Consumption and Homemade Food Act are
                   required to obtain a Business license pursuant to this Title but may be exempt
                   from health department approval required in Subsection A so long as the
                   producer meets the requirements outlined in Utah Code Ann. 4-5a-1-1 et seq., as
                   amended.
