DocuSign Envelope ID: 3BFF2CCA-6697-43DF-8E8C-3212E642137D




            Ordinance No. 2023-33

            AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 13-1-1, METERED SERVICE

            WHEREAS, City Council desires to enhance the water conservation messaging and
            signals embedded in water rates.

            WHEREAS, during the May 11, 2022, Old Business Regular Session Council directed
            staff to present for consideration on June 22, 2023 water rate amendments that include
            the ability to change base rate charges without changing the physical meter.

            WHEREAS, the amendment allows multi-family residential, commercial, and irrigation
            account holders to select a base rate different than the size of their meter thereby
            allowing a customer to better match their water consumption with the cost of water.

            WHEREAS, the amendment preserves the ability of single family residential accounts to
            downsize their base rate when fire suppression systems required a larger meter and
            base rate than would otherwise be required.

            BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH, THAT:

            Section 13-1-1 the Municipal Code of Park City is amended and adopted to read as
            outlined in Exhibit A. This Ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 22nd day of June, 2023.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                              ____
                                                              Mayor Nann Worel
            Attest:



            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder
            Approved as to form:



            City Attorney’s Office
DocuSign Envelope ID: 3BFF2CCA-6697-43DF-8E8C-3212E642137D




            Exhibit A

            13-1-1 Metered Service

            A base rate will be charged to all water connections according to set by the size of the
            meter in use. For accounts other than single family residential and construction, the
            base rate may be changed to a different meter size base rate, and associated water
            consumption rates, upon request, subject to a limit of one request per 12 months. For
            single family residential accounts, a base rate may be adjusted downward if an
            oversized meter is required for fire sprinklers. In these cases, the base rate will be set
            at the meter size that would have been necessary to meet culinary and irrigation
            demands. The base rate for all meter sizes shall be established by resolution.

            All water used from the City water system for household, domestic, irrigation,
            commercial, industrial, or any other use shall be metered, and water paid according to
            the quantity used.

            All water delivered through each meter will be charged at a rate as established by
            resolution. Unoccupied structures will be billed the base rate charge set by resolution for
            the meter used in the structure unless a service disconnect request has been received
            by the Water Department. A service disconnect request will be charged a reconnect fee,
            established by resolution, to reestablish water service. When an oversized meter is
            required for fire sprinklers, the base charge will be adjusted downward to reflect the
            meter size that would have been used for the culinary and irrigation demand.
