DocuSign Envelope ID: A29E7B22-3242-4585-AAC8-D3F9A6CD8060




            Ordinance No. 2023-51

                      AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 4-1-1, 4-3-6, AND 4-7-3 OF THE
                                 MUNICIPAL CODE OF PARK CITY, UTAH

            WHEREAS, changes in State law removed the statutory authorization for the Main Street
            Business Improvement District and the corresponding fee; and

            WHEREAS, City Council finds that it is in the public interest to update the City Code to
            reflect the changes in State law and remove references to the Business Improvement
            District.

            NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY,
            UTAH, THAT:

            SECTION I. Approval of Amendments to Title 4. Sections 4-1-1, 4-3-6, and 4-7-3 of
            the Park City Code are hereby amended as shown in Attachment A.

            SECTION II. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 2nd day of November, 2023.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                             __________________________________
                                                                                Mayor, Nann Worel

            Attest:


            _________________________
            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder


            Approved as to form:


            __________________________
            City Attorney’s Office
DocuSign Envelope ID: A29E7B22-3242-4585-AAC8-D3F9A6CD8060


            Attachment A: Title 4 Amendments


            4-1-1 Definitions
            All words and phrases used in this Title shall have the following meanings unless a
            different meaning clearly appears from the context. Definitions specific to Chapters 4-8
            and 4-11 are included in their respective chapters:

            ART. Original works of fine Art, graphic Art, and aesthetic objects produced by the Artist.
            It shall not include any Art produced by any Person other than the Artist displaying the
            Art, or any Art purchased or taken on consignment and held for resale.

            ARTIST. The creator of the Art who exhibits his/her own Art for sale. Artist does not
            include street musician.

            AVAILABLE CITY PROPERTY. The green space at the northeast intersection of Park
            Avenue and 9th Street, Park City, Utah, owned and operated by the City, and alternatively
            pursuant to 4-10-3(E)(1), City Park.

            BACKGROUND CHECK CERTIFICATE. Certificate issued by the Bureau of Criminal
            Investigation that includes the applicant’s name, date of certificate, date of expiration, and
            a statement that the certificate holder has met the requirements of the background check.

            BEDROOM. Each room in a hotel, motel, lodge, condominium project, single family
            residence, fractional ownership or timeshare project, or other Nightly Lodging Facility that
            is intended primarily for the temporary use of transient guests for sleeping purposes.

            BUSINESS. A distinct and separate Person or entity Engaging in Business, as those
            terms are defined herein. A Business is distinguished from another Business by separate
            state sales tax numbers or separate ownership.

            CITY. Park City, Utah.

            COMMERCIAL VEHICLES AND TRAILERS & CONSULTANT LICENSE. Motor
            vehicles used for a Business’s normal activities, but not used to transport people to, from,
            and within Park City for a Fare. Such vehicles include but are not limited to vehicles used
            for deliveries, cleaning or consulting, commercial hauling, and snow removal services, as
            well as cargo rental vehicles, concrete trucks, and dump trucks.

            DABS. The Utah Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.

            EMPLOYEE BASED. Businesses which lease or otherwise provide employees to other
            businesses or any Person in return for consideration. Such businesses include but are
            not limited to employment agencies and security firms.

            ENGAGING IN BUSINESS. Includes all activities within the corporate limits of Park City
            carried on for the purpose of gain or economic profit, except that the acts of employees
            rendering service to employers shall not be included in the term Business unless
            otherwise specifically prescribed. "Engaging in Business" includes but is not limited to the

                                                             1
DocuSign Envelope ID: A29E7B22-3242-4585-AAC8-D3F9A6CD8060


            Attachment A: Title 4 Amendments


            sale, rental, Gifting, marketing, or promotion of tangible personal or real property at retail
            or wholesale, the manufacturing of goods or property, and the rendering of personal
            services for others for consideration by Persons engaged in any profession, trade, craft,
            Business or occupation, except the rendering of personal services by an employee to
            his/her employer under any contract of personal employment. Each manufacturing or
            originating company, whether individually occupying a premise, including home
            occupations and home offices, or co-locating, shall be required to obtain an individual
            Business license for that Business activity.

            EXHIBIT. To display for sale with the intent or expectation of receiving valuable
            consideration for the item displayed.

            FOOD TRUCK OPERATOR. One who owns or operates a Food Truck as defined in Title
            15, Land Management Code.

            GIFTING. Includes various hospitality, filming, display, exhibiting, or promotional use of
            goods not for sale and other related activity that are marketing or promoting tools in which
            goods are given or traded to the public in general or desirable people so that the product
            will be associated with those people and appear in publications, media, internet, etc., to
            give the product exposure. Gifting is not just the display of goods with the hope of future
            orders; it involves actually giving the product away, where the consideration for the gift is
            the exposure of the product, and includes direct or indirect interaction with customers or
            potential customers in order to increase awareness of a product, or service of company.
            Corporate groups that receive gifts purchased by the corporation that are not provided by
            another entity and are exclusively for the group will not be considered Gifting.

            HOURLY USER CAPACITY. The maximum number of Persons that can be safely and
            reasonably accommodated per hour by an amusement park, golf course, athletic club,
            theater, bowling alley, tennis club, racquetball club, swimming pool, ski lift, gondola, or
            tram, or any other recreational, sports, or entertainment facility.

            INSTRUCTOR LICENSE. Any individual engaged in instructing individuals or groups, or
            teaching, giving, or offering lessons, classes, training, or other programs to individuals or
            groups such as ice skating lessons, etc., must obtain an Instructor License if instructing
            30 days or more per annum. Instructor licenses are assessed at the same rate as
            commercial vehicles.

            LICENSE FEE(S). Fees as defined by the Business License Fee Schedule.

            MAIN STREET BUSINESS DISTRICT. Main Street Business Improvement District
            (MSBDBID) is defined as all businesses located in the following area:

            The MSBDBID boundary shall follow the centerline of the following streets: Beginning at
            the intersection of Main Street and Deer Valley Drive, then proceeding westerly on Main
            Street to the intersection of the 9th Street, then west on 9th Street to the intersection of the
            9th Street and Park Avenue, then proceeding southerly on Park Avenue to the intersection

                                                             2
DocuSign Envelope ID: A29E7B22-3242-4585-AAC8-D3F9A6CD8060


            Attachment A: Title 4 Amendments


            of King Road, then easterly on King Road to Main Street, then southerly on Main Street
            to Hillside Avenue, then proceeding easterly along Hillside to Marsac Avenue, then
            proceeding northward on Marsac Avenue to the intersection of Deer Valley Drive and the
            point of beginning.

            MOBILE VENDOR. One who sells non-food goods such as flowers, agricultural products,
            or merchandise from push carts, mobile wagons, or motor vehicles. Mobile Vendors do
            not include Food Truck Operators.

            NIGHTLY LODGING FACILITY. Any place where any portion is rented or otherwise
            made available to Persons for transient lodging purposes for a period less than thirty (30)
            days including, without limitation, a hotel, motel, lodge, condominium project, single family
            residence, fractional ownership or timeshare project.

            NON-PROFIT CORPORATION. A corporation organized for some purpose other than
            making a profit and, as such, may enjoy a tax exempt status.

            NUISANCE. For the purposes of the Alcoholic Beverage Licenses Chapter of this Title,
            any licensed premises where:

            A. Alcoholic beverages are manufactured, sold, kept, bartered, stored, consumed, given
               away, or used contrary to the Alcohol Beverage Control Act or this Code;
            B. Intoxicated Persons are permitted to loiter about;
            C. Profanity, indecent, immoral, loud, or boisterous language or immoral, unruly,
               disorderly, lewd, obscene conduct is permitted or carried on;
            D. Persons under the age of twenty-one (21) are permitted to purchase or drink beer or
               liquor;
            E. City, county, state, or federal laws or ordinances that protect the public health, safety,
               peace, or morals are violated by the licensee or his/her agents or patrons with the
               consent or knowledge of licensee;
            F. Patrons litter or throw other objects within the licensed premises or from the licensed
               premises in a manner which tends to affect the public health, safety, peace, or morals;
            G. Patrons are permitted to remove opened containers of alcoholic beverages or glasses
               containing alcoholic beverages from the licensed premises to the public street or way.

            PERSON(S). Any individual, receiver, assignee, trustee in bankruptcy, trust, estate, firm,
            partnership, joint venture, club, company, Business trust, corporation, association,
            society, or other group of individuals acting as a unit, whether mutual, cooperative,
            fraternal, non-profit, or otherwise.

            PLACE OF BUSINESS. A place at which one Engages in Business; Each separate Place
            of Business or location must be separately licensed.

            RESTAURANT. A Business location at which a variety of foods are prepared and at which
            complete meals are served to the general public in indoor or outdoor dining
            accommodations. This does not include Mobile Vendors or Food Trucks.

                                                             3
DocuSign Envelope ID: A29E7B22-3242-4585-AAC8-D3F9A6CD8060


            Attachment A: Title 4 Amendments


            ROUTE DELIVERY. Any delivery made to customers of a Business, which makes
            repeated door-to-door deliveries to the same households along designated routes with
            an established time interval in between delivery visits. The majority of such deliveries
            must be to fulfill orders previously made by the customer. However, nothing in this Title
            shall prevent a Business from taking orders from established customers and filled during
            such delivery visits. Such Business will include, but not be limited to, dairies and sellers
            of bulk meats or produce.

            SHUTTLE. A vehicle that travels between fixed locations for a set or predetermined Fare.

            SKI RESORT. A ski area that operates as a distinct and separate enterprise and which
            is deemed to include, without limitation, the ski runs, ski lifts, and related facilities that are
            part of the ski area and primarily service the patrons of the ski area. The Ski Resort
            includes ski instruction, tours, first aid stations, parking garages, management and
            maintenance facilities, and workshops, but does not include food service, ski rentals, or
            retail sales of goods or merchandise, which are all deemed separate businesses even if
            owned by a resort operator.

            SKIER DAY. A three (3) year average of the total number of lift tickets sold each year
            between November 1 and June 30, including daily lift tickets, resident coupons,
            complimentary tickets, and an estimated average of season pass holders’ daily use. The
            three (3) year average shall be calculated by the Ski Resort and shall include the three
            (3) most recent years of operation from November 1 through June 30. The City may audit
            the analysis and any Business records relied upon for the analysis. The calculation shall
            be submitted to the Finance Department by July 15 of each year.

            SOLICITED DELIVERY. A delivery of previously ordered goods or services or the United
            States mail. Solicited Delivery includes, but is not limited to, the delivery of newspapers
            or publications pursuant to a subscription, parcel delivery services, businesses engaging
            in Route Delivery, or Persons delivering previously ordered goods or services on behalf
            of an established retailer of those goods or services.

            SOLICITOR. A Person who contacts individuals or the general public for the purpose of
            taking orders for goods or services, or encouraging attendance at sales presentations,
            lectures, seminars, or the like, at which goods or services are promoted or offered for
            sale, whether the presentation, or lecture, seminar or the like is held within Park City or
            not, provided that the Solicitor makes contact with the public at a location other than at
            the regular Place of Business at which the goods or services are actually sold or
            performed. For purposes of this Title, the term "goods or services" shall include
            merchandise, produce, personal services, property services, investment opportunities,
            franchises, time intervals in the use of ownership or real property, and any other kind of
            tangible or intangible thing that is given in exchange for valuable consideration.

            SQUARE FOOTAGE. The aggregate number of square feet of area within a Place of
            Business that is used by a licensee Engaging in Business.


                                                             4
DocuSign Envelope ID: A29E7B22-3242-4585-AAC8-D3F9A6CD8060


            Attachment A: Title 4 Amendments




            UNIT. Any separately rented portion of a hotel, motel, condominium, apartment building,
            single family residence, duplex, triplex, or other residential dwelling without limitation.

            UNSOLICITED DELIVERY. The delivery of any unsolicited newspaper or publication,
            sample product, or advertising material. Unsolicited newspapers or publications, sample
            products, or advertising material shall include, but not be limited to, handbills describing
            or offering goods or services for sale, any goods or products that were not previously
            ordered by the homeowner or occupant, any newspaper or publication delivered without
            a subscription by the owner or occupant, and any coupons or rebate offers for goods and
            services.




                                                             5
DocuSign Envelope ID: A29E7B22-3242-4585-AAC8-D3F9A6CD8060


            Attachment B: Title 4 Amendments


            4-3-6 License Issuance, Revocation, Or Denial
            A. The Finance Manager or his/her designee shall notify the applicant of:
                   1. The denial of a license and the reason for such denial; or
                   2. The issuance of the license.
            B. The Finance Manager or his/her designee may deny or revoke a license if the
               applicant:
                   1. Has been convicted of a fraud or felony by any state or federal court within the
                      past five (5) years, has been released from prison after serving a sentence for
                      a fraud or felony within the last five (5) years, or now has criminal proceedings
                      pending against him/her in any state or federal court for fraud or a felony;
                   2. Has obtained a license by fraud or deceit;
                   3. Has failed to pay personal property taxes or other required taxes or fees
                      imposed by the City or other governmental agency;
                   4. Has violated the laws of the State of Utah, the United States Government, or
                      the ordinances of Park City governing operation of the Business for which the
                      applicant is applying for the license;
                   5. Is located within the boundaries of the Main Street Business Improvement
                      District (MSBDBID) and has failed to pay the Business promotion tax, set by
                      separate ordinance, or any applicable solid waste management charges or
                      fees. Proof of up-to-date payment will be required prior to license approval or
                      renewal;
                   6. Fails to meet the requirements set by this Title;
                   7. Conflicts with other applications or issued licenses;
                   8. If applying for a Solicitor license, has been convicted of, or entered a guilty plea,
                      to any crime involving receiving stolen goods, burglary, theft, fraud, the
                      possession or sale of controlled substances, securities violations, or
                      prostitution within the preceding five (5) years; or
                   9. It would be inappropriate to issue the license due to concerns regarding the
                      community’s general health, welfare, and public safety.
            C. Additionally, the Finance Manager or his/her designee may deny or revoke an
               alcoholic beverage license if the applicant:
                   1. Is less than twenty-one (21) years of age;
                   2. Has been convicted of:
                          a. A felony under federal or state law;
                          b. A violation of federal law, state law, or local ordinance concerning the
                              sale, offer for sale, warehousing, manufacture, distribution,
                              transportation, or adulteration of an alcoholic product;
                          c. A crime involving moral turpitude; or
                          d. Driving under the influence of alcohol, drugs, or the combined influence
                              of alcohol and drugs on two (2) or more occasions within the five (5)
                              years before the day on which the license is issued;
                   3. Has had any type of alcoholic beverage license revoked within the last three
                      (3) years;
                   4. Fails to comply with federal and state laws pertaining to the payment of taxes
                      and contributions to unemployment and insurance funds; or
                   5. Fails to meet all other state requirements for the applicable license.
DocuSign Envelope ID: A29E7B22-3242-4585-AAC8-D3F9A6CD8060


            Attachment A: Title 4 Amendments


            4-7-3 Applications
            A. For Type 1 and Type 3 convention sales licenses, the City may take up to ten (10)
               business days to complete the licensure process to permit adequate time for the
               Police, Building, Finance, and Planning Departments for review and investigation. The
               Departments may request reasonable evidence of title to goods proposed to be
               offered for sale as part of the review.
            B. Retained Council Authority for Type 2 licenses:
                   1. The Finance Manager or his/her designee shall refer the Type 2 convention
                      sales license application to the Building, Planning, Parking, and Public Safety
                      Departments for approval.
                   2. After obtaining department approval, all Type 2 licenses shall require City
                      Council approval at a publicly noticed meeting. All Type 2 license applications
                      must be completed and received at least seven (7) calendar days prior to a
                      regular scheduled meeting and three (3) business days prior to a special
                      meeting.
                   3. All Type 2 license applications require the applicant to have a pre-inspection
                      prior to application at the Place of Business conducted by the Building
                      Department for compliance with the building and fire codes. A copy of said pre-
                      inspection report must accompany the license application submittal. The pre-
                      inspection prior to application shall remain valid for one hundred and twenty
                      (120) days.
                   4. All Type 2 license applications shall require an accurate floor plan and a design
                      occupancy load stamped by a design professional to be submitted to the
                      Building Department prior to application.
                   5. All Type 2 license applicants require a final inspection by the Building
                      Department post application after the space has been set up for the event.
                      Business shall not be conducted until the final inspection has been passed and
                      the applicant has been issued a Type 2 convention sales license.
                   6. All Type 2 convention sales license applicants for locations within the Main
                      Street Business Improvement District (MSBDBID) boundaries are required to
                      submit a payment receipt from the contracted local solid waste removal service
                      provider in the amount of one hundred dollars ($100) at the time of application
                      showing payment for solid waste removal during the duration of their license,
                      and be required to pay the Main Street BID tax set forth by ordinance.
                   7. All Type 2 convention sales licenses will be assessed the Enhanced
                      Enforcement Fees as established in the Fee Schedule to be paid at time of
                      application.
                   8. If the City Manager or designee deems it necessary, the loading operations of
                      each Type 2 convention sales licensee must be permitted by the Parking
                      Division as set forth in Section 9-5-3(H) of the Municipal Code.
            C. Type 1 and Type 2 Convention Sales and Hospitality Licenses, located in a Storefront
               that meet the definition of a Conventional Chain Business, must comply with the Land
               Management Code Section 15-2.5-2 in the Historic Recreation Commercial District or
               15-2.6-2 in the Historic Commercial Business District.




                                                             7
