DocuSign Envelope ID: 74D505EC-4494-44C1-9145-8F63E9B7F1C8




            Ordinance No. 2024-06

            AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTIONS 14-1-2, 14-1-3, AND 14-1-4 OF THE PARK
            CITY CODE TO REMOVE THE FORESTRY BOARD AND REALLOCATE ITS
            AUTHORITY TO THE FORESTRY MANAGER

            WHEREAS, Park City has an interest in conserving a connected, healthy network of
            open space for continued access to and respect for the Natural Setting.

            WHEREAS, the City adopted code to ensure proper management of trees and
            landscaping within Park City by the Forestry Manager.

            WHEREAS, ultimate authority under Title 14, Chapter 1 will continue to be vested in the
            Forestry Manager.

            WHEREAS, the City recently procured services to develop a Community Forestry Plan.

            WHEREAS, the City benefits from staff being able to work flexibly and collaboratively
            through the creation of the Community Forestry Plan and in reviewing applications.

            BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH, THAT:

            Sections 14-1-2, 14-1-3, AND 14-1-4 of the Park City Code are amended to read as
            outlined in Exhibit A. This Ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 14th day of March, 2024.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                              ____
                                                              Mayor Nann Worel
            Attest:



            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder


            Approved as to form:



            City Attorney’s Office
DocuSign Envelope ID: 74D505EC-4494-44C1-9145-8F63E9B7F1C8




            Exhibit A- Ordinance Amendments
            14-1-2 Creation Of Forestry Manager, Forestry Advisory Board And Appointments
            The City Manager or his/her their designee shall be the Park City Forestry Manager.
            The Park City Forestry Advisory Board shall consist of six (6) members of Park City
            staff, including one staff member from the Planning, Sustainability, Trails and Open
            Space, and Parks departments, as well as the City Engineer. The Forestry Manager
            shall act as the Chair of the Forestry Advisory Board.


            14-1-3 Duties and Responsibilities of the Forestry Manager
            The Forestry Manager shall have full power over all trees and shrubs located within the
            City’s rights-of-way, parks and public places; over trees and shrubs located on private
            property that constitute a hazard or threat as described herein; and to building sites,
            both commercial or and residential, regarding landscaping, vegetation disturbance limits
            and visual impacts. The Forestry Manager may provide guidance on private
            landscapes, pursuant to Land Management Code 15-5-5 and the Forestry Plan.
            The Forestry Manager, with the advice of the Forestry Advisory Board, shall promulgate
            and update as necessary the Plant Species List in Section 14-1-15. The Plant Species
            List shall, upon adoption by ordinance of the City Council, be used by City staff as
            necessary when reviewing Building, Planning, and Engineering permit applications
            regarding projects located on public property and in the City’s rights-of-way.


            14-1-4 Duties And Responsibilities Of The Forestry Advisory Board Plan
            The Forestry Advisory Board shall assist the Forestry Manager in developing and
            operating a comprehensive forestry plan. It shall be the responsibility of the Board
            Forestry Manager or their designee to study, investigate, counsel, formulate, develop
            and/or update, and administer a Community Forestry Plan, hereinafter referred to as
            “Forestry Plan” for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting, removal or
            disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in other public places. Such
            plan will be presented, when appropriate, to the City Council and upon its acceptance
            and approval, by the Council, shall constitute the official comprehensive city tree plan
            for the City of Park City.
            The Board, when requested by the Forestry Manager shall consider, investigate, make
            findings, report and recommend upon any special matter or question coming within the
            scope of its work. The Board shall choose its own officers, make its own rules and
            regulations, and keep meeting minutes in accordance with the Open and Public
            Meetings Act, Utah Code Annotated 52-4-101. A majority of the members shall be a
            quorum for the transaction of business.
