DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC




             Ordinance No. 2024-08

                   AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 4A - SPECIAL EVENTS, CHAPTER 1
                   DEFINITIONS AND CHAPTER 2 SPECIAL EVENT PERMITTING OF THE
                                MUNICIPAL CODE OF PARK CITY, UTAH

            WHEREAS, special events in Park City continue to grow; and

            WHEREAS, Park City desires to facilitate events that provide positive impacts to
            the local resort economy, contribute to the unique historic character and cultural
            vitality of the City, and help to build a higher quality of life for city residents, visitors
            and the local business community; and

             WHEREAS, special events range from very small neighborhood-level events to city-wide,
             and international multi-million dollar productions; and

             WHEREAS, special events held in the City impact public safety and impede the flow
             of pedestrian and vehicular traffic; and

             WHEREAS, amendments to the permit application process proposed herein will allow the
             City to manage neighborhood impacts of events and balance the competing uses of its
             public spaces to ensure that members of the public are able to access public spaces in a
             manner consistent with the following General Plan goals:
             Goal 10: Provide world class recreation and public infrastructure to host local, regional,
             national and international events that further Park City’s role as a world class, multi-
             seasonal destination resort while maintaining balance with our sense of community.
             Goal 11: Support the continued success of the multi-seasonal tourism economy while
             preserving the community character that adds to the visitor experience.
             Goal 12: Foster diversity of jobs to provide greater economic stability and new opportunities
             for employment in Park City.
             Goal 13: Park City will continue to grow as an arts and culture hub encouraging creative
             expression; and

             WHEREAS, pursuant to its authority under Utah Code sections 10-8-29 and 10-8-84, Park
             City Municipal Corporation wants to ensure public health, safety, and welfare during all
             permitted events; and

             WHEREAS, when more than one event occurs in the same general area, the occupancy level
             of venues, public property, adjacent city streets and sidewalks increases, which may create
             an unsafe condition and strain the City’s resources and infrastructure; and

             WHEREAS, limiting the number of special events that may occur simultaneously and limiting
             the overall number of large scale, Level Three, Four and Five events will allow the City to
             reduce overcrowding and avoid overburdening streets, roadways and sidewalks, and will
             allow the City to better manage its resources and maintain infrastructure; and

             WHEREAS, allowing smaller local Level One and Two events will allow the City to provide a
             better balance to the quality of life for the residents of Park City.

             WHEREAS, defining Community Identifying Events will bolster the unique community of Park
             City and protect special events that are important to our community identify, culture and place.

             WHEREAS, residents need to quickly access public space to respond to current events
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC




             through spontaneous speech.

             WHEREAS, on March 7, 2024 (p.20), during a Work Session, staff provided an update on
             several code clarifications regarding Special Events that would be presented to Council in
             upcoming months.

             WHEREAS, specific changes include updating the Special Event Manager to have
             administrative authority, adjustments to Peak and Local Times, Updates to Community
             Identifying Event definitions, and clarifications to the Special Event Fee Reduction process.

             BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH THAT:

                     SECTION 1. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 4A – Special Events of the Municipal
                     Code of Park City. The recitals above are incorporated herein as findings of fact.
                     Title 4A Special Events, Chapter 1 Definitions and Chapter 2 Special Event
                     Permitting of the Municipal Code of Park City are hereby amended as redlined
                     as attached in Exhibit B. This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 16th day of May, 2024.

                                                     PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION



                                                     ________________________________________
                                                     Mayor Pro Tem Tana Toly

           Attest:




           _________________________________
           Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder


           Approved as to form:




           _________________________________
           City Attorney’s Office



           Attachment 1- Title 4A, Chapters 1 and 2 Redline
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


            4A Special Events
            4A-1                                                                             Definitions
            4A-2                  Special                             Event                  Permitting
            4A-3    Public    Outdoor     Music              Plazas-REPEALED     BY      ORD    2019-35

            4A-1 Definitions
            4A-1-1                                                                            Definitions

            4A-1-1 Definitions
            For the purpose of this Title the following terms shall have the meanings prescribed:

            4A-1-1.1 APPLICANT. The person, or group of people, who is or are the organizer(s) and with
            whom the responsibility for conduct of the event lies. The Applicant signs the Special Event
            Application and all other documents relevant to the event. If the Applicant is a corporation,
            corporate Sponsor, business, or any other entity, which is not a natural person, then the co-
            applicant or responsible party must be a natural person or persons. See Sponsor.

            4A-1-1.2 AMPLIFIED EVENT OR MUSIC. An event or music utilizing an amplifier or other
            input of power so as to obtain an output of greater magnitude or volume through speakers
            or other electronic devices.

            4A-1-1.3 CITY PROPERTY. A property or facility owned wholly or in part by the City.

            4A-1-1.4 CONCESSION. A privilege to sell food, beverages, souvenirs, or copyrighted or
            logoed event memorabilia at a permitted event.

            4A-1-1.5 DISRUPTIVE TECHNOLOGY. An innovation that displaces an established
            technology and creates a new market and value network that eventually disrupts an
            existing market and value network, displacing established market-leading firms, products
            and alliances.

            4A-1-1.6 FEE(S). Charges assessed by Park City for permitting, staffing, equipment
            use/rental, property use/rental, set-up, clean up, inspections, public employees, or public
            equipment related to a Special Event and established as part of the event permitting process
            according to the Park City Fee Schedule.

            4A-1-1.7 MATERIAL CHANGE. A change to the scope of an event that requires additional
            review of an existing or New Special Event Application. Material Changes include
            increased need for public safety, transportation, or transit impacts; increased use or impacts
            to City property; dates that conflict with other existing events on the calendar, or that
            overlap with Peak and Local Times; and venue changes or additions.

            4A.1.1.8 NEW EVENT. An event being proposed for the first time within City limits, an event
            renewal that now qualifies as a higher Level, or an event that has not been renewed for a
            period exceeding one year.

            4A-1-1.9 PERMITTEE. The Applicant, as defined above, becomes the "Permittee" when the
            Special Event Permit is approved and signed by either the City Council or the Economic
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


            Special Event Development Manager or designee, upon meeting all the criteria in this Title.
            As the permit holder, the Permittee becomes the sole proprietor of the event and inherits
            the responsibilities connected with all licenses and permits, Fee assessments, and
            insurance liabilities connected with the permitted event.

            4A-1-1.10 SKI AND SUMMER RESORT AREA. An event location that is within a Master
            Planned Development (MPD) boundary in the Recreation Commercial (RC) Zone and
            Residential              Development                 (RD)                 Zone.


            4A-1-1.11 SPECIAL EVENT.

                 A. A sporting, cultural, entertainment, or other type of unique activity, whether held for
                    profit, nonprofit, or charitable purposes, occurring for a limited or fixed duration that
                    impacts the City by involving the use of, or having impact on, City property, or
                    requiring City licensing or services beyond the scope of normal business, liquor
                    regulations, or is an outdoor or temporary event that does not normally occur with
                    the permitted Venue use as defined by this Code; or creates public impacts through
                    any                         of                     the                         following:

                         1. Interruption of the safe and efficient flow of transportation in Park City,
                            including streets or public rights of way, which may include full, partial, or
                            temporary closures or impacts on streets or sidewalks necessary for the safe
                            and efficient flow of transportation and pedestrian movement in Park City;
                            and                                                                       /or

                         2. Use of City property, parking, facilities, trails, or parks;
                         3. Need for public safety staffing beyond their normal scope of operations;

                 B. Any organized activity involving the use of, or having an impact on, the above shall
                    require a permit as outlined in Section 4A-2-1 of this Code. Event levels are
                    determined by City staff based on degree of City impacts: anticipated attendance as
                    related to type of Venue use whether private or City Property, transportation and
                    public safety impacts. Any event may be defined as either a Level One Event, a Level
                    Two Event, a Level Three Event, a Level Four Event, a Level Five Event, a Community
                    Identifying Event, a First Amendment Event if it meets one or more of the listed
                    criteria             in              the                given               category:

                         1. LEVEL ONE EVENT:
                               a. Attendance at any one time is estimated up to 250 people and occurs
                                  on one day and is not a series; and/or
                               b. Has minor impact to surrounding areas and can be held within
                                  existing Venue/use area; and
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                               c. Has minor transportation needs including minimal removal of
                                  parking, rolling road closures, and does not require increased transit;
                                  and
                               d. Does not require public safety staffing beyond normal operations.
                         2. LEVEL TWO EVENT:
                               a. Attendance at any one time is estimated up to 500 people and the
                                  event is a series or has multiple days in consecutive occurrence;
                               b. Has minor impact to surrounding areas and can be held within
                                  existing Venue/use area; and
                               c. Has minor transportation needs including minimal removal of
                                  parking, but requires a transportation mitigation plan, temporary,
                                  rolling or short-term road closures, and does not require increased
                                  transit; and
                               d. Does not require public safety staffing beyond normal operations.
                         3. LEVEL THREE EVENT:
                               a. Attendance at any one time is estimated between 500 and 1,000 people
                                  and is no more than two consecutive days or three days in a non-
                                  consecutive series; and
                               b. Has moderate impact to surrounding areas and can be held within
                                  existing               Venue/use                area;             and

                                 c. Has moderate transportation needs including removal of parking,
                                    requires a transportation mitigation plan, may require offsite parking
                                    plan, temporary, rolling or short-term road closures, and does not
                                    require       increased       Park        City      transit;       and

                               d. May require limited public safety staffing beyond normal operations.
                         4. LEVEL                             FOUR                             EVENT:

                                 a. Attendance throughout the duration of the event time period is
                                    estimated between 500 and 5,000 people and the event may be a non-
                                    consecutive series or may have multiple days in consecutive
                                    occurrence; and
                                 b. Has moderate to major impact to surrounding areas and/or cannot be
                                    held within existing Venue/use area; and
                                 c. Has moderate to major transportation needs including removal of
                                    parking, requires a transportation mitigation plan, requires offsite
                                    parking plan, temporary, rolling or long-term road closures, and minor
                                    to moderate residential transportation mitigation and minor increase
                                    in service from Park City Transit and may be required to provide
                                    additional transit services from a vendor outside of Park City's
                                    existing transit; and
                                 d. Requires public safety staffing needs beyond normal operations
                                    including moderate to major support in the Venue and minor to
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                                  moderate traffic control. May require public safety services from
                                  outside of the City's jurisdiction.
                         5. LEVEL                                FIVE                       EVENT:

                               a. Attendance throughout the duration of the event time period is
                                   estimated to be above 5,000 people and may be a series or have
                                   consecutive days of occurrences: and
                               b. Has moderate to sever impacts to surrounding areas and cannot be
                                   held within existing Venue or use areas; and
                               c. Has moderate to severe transportation needs including removal of
                                   parking, requires a transportation mitigation plan, requires offsite
                                   parking plan, temporary, rolling or long-term road closures, moderate
                                   to major residential transportation mitigation and requires increased
                                   Park City Transit and/or increased transportation provider outside of
                                   Park City's ability to provide services required; and/or
                               d. Requires public safety staffing needs beyond normal operations
                                   including moderate to severe support in the Venue, and moderate to
                                   severe transportation mitigation as well as support of public safety
                                   personnel from outside of the City's jurisdiction.
                         6. COMMUNITY IDENTIFYING EVENT: To be defined as a Community
                            Identifying Event, the Applicant must meet all of the following criteria.
                               a. Honors Park City’s unique community goals and enhances the
                                   collective goodwill that features legacy events, distinct traditions, and
                                   authentic local culture, including ties to the people, places, and history
                                   of Park City. Outside events that simply partner with a local nonprofit
                                   or business to check a box will not meet this criteria; and
                               b. The event fundamentally aligns with the City’s Critical Priorities and
                                   Core Values as adopted by the City Council; and
                               c. Attendance is targeted primarily at local participation from Park City
                                   and Summit County residents, employees, and businesses. A growth
                                   or marketing model to bring attendance from outside of Summit
                                   Countythe Wasatch Back region is secondary to local attendance and
                                   participation;; and
                               d. The event provides free or affordable options for local Park City and
                                   Summit County attendancelocal Park City resident attendance
                                   options; and.
                               e. The event offers free or affordable options for underserved
                                   populations. .
                         7. FIRST AMENDMENT EVENT: An activity conducted for the purpose of
                            persons expressing their political, social, religious, or other views protected
                            by the First Amendment to the United States Constitution and Article 1,
                            Section 15 of the Utah Constitution, including but not limited to
                            speechmaking, picketing, protesting, marching, demonstrating, or debating
                            public issues on any City street or other City property during the event. ‘First
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                             Amendment                   Events’        shall     not          include:

                                 a. Solicitations or events which primarily propose a commercial
                                    transaction;
                                 b. Rallies, races, parades, or events conducted with motor vehicles or
                                    bicycles;
                                 c. Footraces.

            4A-1-1.12 SPECIAL EVENTS COORDINATOR. The City employee designated by the City
            Manager who, under the supervision of the Economic Special Event Development Manager
            and within the Special Events Department, administers the provisions in the Special Events
            Chapter of this Code.

            4A-1-1.13 SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT. A permit sought by an Applicant for an event as
            defined in this Chapter, granted through the Special Events Department.
            4A-1-1.14 SPONSOR. A person, group, or business which has contracted to provide financial
            or logistical support to any Special Event. Such agreement may provide for advertising
            rights, product promotion, logo promotion, exclusivity of rights, products, or logos.

            4A-1-1.15 VENUE. The location or locations upon which a Special Event is held, which shall
            include the ingress and egress route, layout of temporary structures as approved in the
            conditions of the Special Event Permit.
            HISTORY
            Adopted            by             Ord.                 2017-51       on           10/5/2017
            Amended by Ord. 2018-52 on 9/27/2018

            4A-2 Special Event Permitting
            4A-2-1     Unlawful      To       Operate      Without       A     Permit;     Exceptions
            4A-2-2                     Renewal                        Of                     Permit(s)
            4A-2-3         Special        Event           Permit         Application        Procedure
            4A-2-4              Standards                For             Permit              Approval
            4A-2-5              Events                In              Parking               Structures
            4A-2-6                              Insurance                               Requirements
            4A-2-7          Permit           Application            Supplemental           Documents
            4A-2-8                  Conflicting                   Permit                  Applications
            4A-2-9      Licenses      Necessary        For       A     Special       Event      Permit
            4A-2-10          Fees            To            Be          Assessed;           Exceptions
            4A-2-11                                  Fee                                   Reductions
            4A-2-12                                                                      Film-Making
            4A-2-13                                 Criminal                                   Penalty
            4A-2-14        Revocation          For         Cause;        Notice        To         Cure

            4A-2-1 Unlawful To Operate Without A Permit; Exceptions
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                 A. It is unlawful for any person to conduct a Special Event with or without charge for
                    admission, on City or private property, without first applying for and being granted
                    a Special Event Permit for the specific event and its Venue(s). All permits issued
                    pursuant to this Title are non-transferrable and expire annually at the completion
                    of the given event, or upon revocation, whichever is earlier.
                 B. The following are exempt from Special Event permitting:
                         1. Funeral processions by a licensed mortuary;
                         2. Activities lawfully conducted by a governmental agency within the scope of
                            authority;
                         3. Activities within Ski and Summer Resort Areas that are determined to have
                            Level One, Level Two or Level Three impacts. Such activities are required to
                            coordinate with the Special Events Department and obtain proper licensing
                            and permitting from city, county or state jurisdictions.
                         4. Filming activities if a permit for such activities has been issued by the City;
                         5. First Amendment activities: If it is not reasonably possible to obtain a permit
                            in advance of a First Amendment Event, no permit shall be required
                            providing that the prohibitions of Subsections B, C, D, E, G and I of Section 4A-
                            2-4 are not violated.

            HISTORY
            Adopted            by             Ord.               2017-51            on             10/5/2017
            Amended             by             Ord.              2018-52            on             9/27/2018
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-2 Renewal Of Permit(s)
            Permittees who successfully operate a Special Event under the provisions of this Title and
            who wish to have the event on an annual or periodic basis must renew each Special Event
            Permit annually, regardless of recurrence of previous determination. Event levels are
            determined by the Special Events Department through the review process, without
            considering any previous determination. Special Events that occur as a series, must have a
            Special Event Permit, specifically authorizing each activity in the series, even if the same
            activity is held on separate occasions or non-consecutive days.
            HISTORY
            Adopted            by             Ord.               2017-51            on             10/5/2017
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-3 Special Event Permit Application Procedure

                 A. PRE-APPLICATION REVIEW. All event Applicants must complete and submit a
                    Special Event Pre-Application Form, demonstrate the ability to indemnify the City
                    and meet the City's insurance requirements, provide documentation of sufficient
                    interest from the property owner, and receive preliminary authorization from the
                    Economic Special Event Development Manager or designee to move forward with
                    the date and Venue requested before submitting a Special Event Application. All
                    applicants requesting to hold new or Materially changed events are strongly
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                    encouraged to arrange a Pre-Application review with the Special Events Department
                    no later than 30 business days before Special Event Applications are due.
                 B. APPLICATION SUBMITTAL. After receiving authorization to move forward,
                    Applicants must complete and submit a Special Event Permit Application Form(s)
                    to the Special Events Department. Applications must be complete by the Application
                    Deadline with accompanying Certificate of Insurance, Hold Harmless Agreement,
                    Community Identifying Event Application, documentation of sufficient interest and
                    additional requirements as outlined below. The Special Events Department shall
                    review the Application for compliance with Section 4A-2-4. After review, the Special
                    Events Department will return a copy of the Application to the Applicant with
                    comments and a recommendation that may include approved, approved with
                    conditions, or denial. Incomplete Applications will be returned to the Applicant and
                    will not be renewed.
                 C. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS. In addition to an Application for a Special Event
                    Permit, the Economic Special Event Development Manager or designee shall require
                    the           Applicant          to         provide           as          necessary:

                        1. Insurance coverage, waiver and release of damages and indemnification as
                             described in Section 4A-2-10. The Applicant shall complete the City's Hold
                             Harmless Agreement and a current eCertificate of Insurance effective
                             through the date of the Event. If the expiration date is prior to the event, the
                             Applicant is required to update the certificate and resubmit 14 days before
                             any event set-up or activity occurs;
                        2. Letters of permission from property owners, and any supporting letters of
                             recommendation from businesses, local organizations or residents.
                 D. APPLICATION SUBMISSION DEADLINES. Special Event Applications may be
                    submitted no earlier than 18 months before the proposed marketing date of the
                    event. All Applications must be submitted no later than the deadlines as described
                    below. Only Applications deemed complete by the Special Events Coordinator will
                    be reviewed.
                        1.3.
                        2.4.First Friday in October - Complete Applications received by the first Friday in
                             October will either be reviewed and approved, approved with conditions, or
                             denied no later than the last City Council meeting in February. This
                             Application deadline is for events that may begin marketing or occur
                             between March and August.
                        3.5. First Friday in April - Complete Applications received by the first Friday in
                             April will be reviewed administratively by the Special Events Department
                             and approved, approved with conditions or denied no later than the first City
                             Council meeting in September. This Application deadline is for events that
                             may begin marketing or occur between September and February. Level Three,
                             Four, and Five events will be considered annually. An Application must be
                             submitted each year in accordance with the following Application deadlines:
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                       4.6.Events that are determined to be a Level Four or Level Five within Ski and
                            Summer Resort Area shall submit by the deadlines as described above,
                            however, final, non-material supplemental details shall be submitted not less
                            than 45 days before the event. Material Changes after deadlines may require
                            approval by City Council. Examples of non-material information include
                            talent information, vendors or sponsors, specifics of Venue site plans etc.
                            Events within these areas shall work with the City to decrease impacts that
                            may be caused in conjunction with other events, activities or community
                            gatherings.
                       5.7. Level One and Level Two events must submit a Special Event Pre-Application
                            Form and receive notice to proceed with a completed Application not less
                            than 30 days prior to the scheduled start of their event, unless otherwise
                            approved by the Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee.
                       6.8. Events that are determined to be a First Amendment Event, however, shall
                            work to submit Applications no less than 30 days prior to the start of the
                            event, unless otherwise approved by the Economic DevelopmentSpecial
                            Event Manager or designee.
                       7.9. Exceptions to deadlines must be approved by the Economic
                            DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee for Community Identifying
                            Events. Exceptions are only granted upon a showing of good cause and for
                            events that demonstrate unique opportunities that benefit Park City's
                            community and culture.
                 E.D.       PEAK TIME. Applications for any new Special Event will not be considered
                    during the following times.
                       1. Martin Luther King Jr. Holiday (Friday through Monday - dates vary
                            annually);
                       2. Sundance Film Festival (as per dates in contract - dates vary annually);
                       3. Third Weekend in February (Presidents Day Weekend - Friday through
                            Monday - dates vary annually);
                       4. Fourth Weekend in June (Savor the Summit Weekend - Friday through
                            Sunday - dates vary annually);
                       5. July 2, 3, 4 and 5 (Independence Day Holiday);
                       6. Fourth Weekend in July (Extreme Soccer Tournament Weekend – Thursday
                            to Sunday, dates vary annually)
                       6.7. First Weekend of August (Arts Fest Weekend - Friday through Sunday - dates
                            vary annually);
                       7.8. First Weekend of September (Labor Day/Miners Day Weekend - Friday
                            through Monday - dates vary annually);
                       8. Third Weekend in September (Autumn Aloft Weekend - Friday through
                            Sunday - dates vary annually);
                       9. October 31 (Halloween on Main);
                       10. Thanksgiving Holiday (Wednesday to Sunday - dates vary annually);
                       11. Winter Holiday (December 23 through 26);
                       12. Winter Holiday 2 (December 30 through January 1); and
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                         13. EXCEPTIONS:
                                 a. Level One, Two and Three events located within Ski and Summer
                                    Resort Areas are allowed during Peak Time Periods in Section 4A-2-
                                    3(E), and are required to submit a Special Event Pre-Application Form.
                                    The Special Events Department will return a letter with event level
                                    determination and other necessary licensing requirements. However,
                                    the Applicant is not required to obtain a Special Event Permit as per
                                    Section 4A-2-1(B)(3).
                                 b. First Amendment events are exempt from peak time period
                                    limitations but are required to obtain a Special Event Permit.
                                 c. Applications for existing events that were permitted on the 2022 event
                                    calendar may be considered unless they were not renewed for a period
                                    exceeding one year and shall be evaluated annually based on the
                                    standards of approval.
                                 d. Community Identifying Events may be considered during Peak Times
                                    but shall be reviewed and approved by City Council.
                 F.E.        LOCAL TIME. Applications for Level One and Two Special Events may be
                     considered during a Local Time. Applications for any new Level Three, Four or Five
                     Special Event which cause parking, transportation or public safety impacts will not
                     be considered during Local Times.
                         1. Last weekend in May (Memorial Day Weekend - Friday through Monday –
                             dates vary annually);
                         2. Second Weekend in June (Friday through Sunday);
                         3. Third Weekend in June (Juneteenth Weekend – Friday through Monday –
                             dates vary annually);
                         4. First Weekend in July (Friday through Monday). If July 2, 3, 4 and 5 occur
                             during a Peak Time Period, then the Peak Time Period (4A-2-3(5) shall apply);
                         5. Second Weekend in July (Friday through Sunday);
                         6. Third Weekend in July (Friday through Sunday);
                         7. Pioneer Day (July 24);
                         8. Second Weekend in August (Friday through Sunday);
                         9. Third Weekend in August (Friday through Sunday);
                         10. Fourth Weekend in August (Friday through Sunday);
                         11. Second Weekend in September (Friday through Sunday);
                         12. Third Weekend in September (Friday through Sunday);
                         12. Last Weekend in September (Friday through Sunday);
                         13. First Weekend in October (Friday through Sunday);
                         14.13.     Second Weekend in October (Friday through Sunday); and
                         15. Third Weekend in October (Friday through Sunday).
                         16.14.     EXCEPTIONS:
                                 a. Level One, Two and Three events located within Ski and Summer
                                    Resort areas are allowed during Peak Local Times Periods in Section
                                    4A-2-3(D), and are required to submit a Special Event Pre-Application
                                    Form. The Special Events Department will return a letter with event
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                                   level determination and other necessary licensing requirements.
                                   However, the Applicant is not required to obtain a Special Event
                                   Permit as per Section 4A-2-1(B)(3).however, are not required to obtain
                                   a Special Event Permit as per Section 4A-2-1(B)(3).
                               b. Level Four and Five events located within Ski and Summer Resort
                                   Area may be considered during Local Periods in Section 4A-2-3(F) but
                                   new New Level Four and Five events in these locations shall be
                                   approved by City Council.
                               c. Level Three, Four and Five Community Identifying Events may be
                                   considered during Local Periods Section 4A-2-3(F) but new
                                   Community Identifying Events shall be approved by City Council.
                               d. First Amendment events are exempt from Peak Local Time
                                   limitations but are required to obtain a Special Event Permit.
                               e. Applications for existing events that were permitted on the 2022 2023
                                   event calendar may be considered, unless they were not renewed for
                                   a period exceeding one year and shall be evaluated annually based on
                                   the standards of approval.
                 G.F.       PUBLISH PEAK AND LOCAL TIME CALENDAR. The Special Events
                     Department will publish a Peak & Local Time Calendar in which any new event
                     Applications will not be considered for any date identified in Section 4A-2-3(E) and
                     4A-2-3(F) as a Peak or Local Time. Applicants who appeal to the Economic
                     DevelopmentSpecial EventSpecial Event Manager or designee to be held during
                     Peak and Local Times must state hardship, good cause or extraordinary
                     circumstance to be considered. Only if hardship, good cause or extraordinary
                     circumstances exist, will the event be reviewed for approval or denial. The City
                     Council will make the determination in an open public meeting after a public
                     hearing.
                 H.G.       EVENT LEVEL LIMITS. The City restricts the number of Special Event
                     permits annually. An event permit may cover more than one event day. The number
                     of Event types are limited as established below. Once limits are reached, an
                     Application may be amended to reduce the event scope to be re-categorized into
                     another lesser event level type that is unrestricted .
                         1. Level One events are unrestricted.
                         2. Level Two events are unrestricted.
                         3. Level Three events are capped at 17 annually.
                         4. Level Four events are capped at 10 annually.
                         5. Level Five events are capped at 6 annually.
                         6. EXCEPTIONS:
                               a. First Amendment and Community Identifying Events are exempt
                                   from limits.
                               b. Events located within Ski and Summer Resort Areas are exempt from
                                   permitting needs as per Section 4A-2-1(B)(3), and limits if determined
                                   to be a Level One, Level Two or Level Three. Events in this area that
                                   are Level Four or Level Five are not exempt from limits.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                 I.H. CITY COUNCIL REVIEW. The City Council of Park City shall review and either
                      approve, approve with conditions, or deny the following Applications:
                          1. Applications for New Level Four and Five Events;
                          2. Applications for Level Four and Five Event permit renewals where material
                              elements of the event have changed from the previous Application;
                          3. Applications for events where the City Property Venue requires City Council
                              review due to existing Land Use approvals; and
                          4. Applications for Level Four and Five Events that are in Ski and Summer
                              Resort Areas during Local Times;
                          5. Applications for Level Four and Five Community Identifying Events that are
                              held during Peak Times;
                          6. Appeals of administrative decisions made pursuant to Subsection (J)
                              Administrative Review;
                          7. The City Council shall review Applications for compliance with the
                              standards for permit approval described at Section 4A-2-4 as follows:
                                  a. Staff Review and Recommendation. Upon receipt of a complete Level
                                      Four or Five Event Application, following the administrative review of
                                      a Level Four or Five Event Application and notice to the Applicant, the
                                      Special Events Coordinator shall schedule the Application for a public
                                      hearing before the City Council.
                                  b. City Council Hearing. Level Four or Five Event Applications requiring
                                      City Council review and appeals of administrative Special Event
                                      decisions shall be heard at a duly noticed public hearing of the City
                                      Council. The City Council shall review the Application for compliance
                                      with the standards set forth at Section 4A-2-4 and shall record its
                                      decision with written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and
                                      condition of approval, if applicable. Written notice of the City Council’s
                                      decision shall be delivered to the Applicant within 10 days of the date
                                      of decision.
                 J.I. ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW. The Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or
                      designee is authorized to review and administratively approve, approve with
                      conditions, or deny the following Applications:
                          1. Level One, Level Two and Level Three Event Applications;
                          2. First Amendment Event Applications that are found to have Level One, Level
                              Two or Level Three impacts;
                          3. Applications for Level Four or Five Event renewals where material elements
                              of the event have not changed from the previous Application. Upon receipt of
                              a complete Level Four or Five Event Application that has not materially
                              changed, the Special Events Coordinator shall review the Application for
                              compliance with Section 4A-2-4.
                 K.J.         DECISION. Upon receipt of a complete Special Event Application, the Special
                      Events Coordinator shall review the Application for compliance with Section 4A-2-
                      4. Following review of the Application, the Special Events Coordinator shall record
                      the decision with written findings of fact, conclusions of law, and conditions of
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                    approval, to the Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee for final
                    administrative review. Once approved by the Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event
                    Manager or designee, the Special Event Coordinator will deliver written notice of
                    such decision to the Applicant.
                 L.K.      APPEALS. Any Applicant whose Application has been administratively
                    denied may appeal the decision to the City Council by filing a written request to the
                    Special Events Coordinator within 10 days of the date of decision. The City Council
                    shall hear the matter de novo and with public hearing.

            HISTORY
            Adopted            by             Ord.              2017-51            on            10/5/2017
            Amended             by             Ord.             2018-52            on            9/27/2018
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-4 Standards For Permit Approval
            Applications for Special Event Permit(s) shall be reviewed for compliance with the
            standards provided. The Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee or City
            Council may deny or restrict any Special Event whenever any of the conditions enumerated
            in this Section cannot be eliminated or sufficiently mitigated by Conditions of Approval.

                 A. The Special Event does not provide positive cultural or community value or is not in
                    accordance with the goals outlined in the Park City General Plan and City Council's
                    Biennial Strategic Plan. The cultural and community value shall be determined by
                    the City pursuant to the following criteria in order of priority:
                        1. Reasons for hosting the event in Park City and Venue/use area is consistent
                            with Park City's goals to create a complete community through its core
                            values and/or partnerships with businesses or organizations that support
                            Park City's community goals, local athletic, recreational, cultural or historic
                            celebrations, or honoring local achievements, groups or individuals. Events
                            that use Public Property only as a backdrop or Venue, or that partner with a
                            local organization or business only to meet the standard with no authentic
                            tie to the local community or city goals will not meet this standard.
                        2. Provides uniqueness to the event calendar by a manner not reflected by other
                            approved events.
                        3. Does not unreasonably restrict existing public access or adversely impact
                            shared space or the public due to the number of events, the nature of the
                            event, proposed location and/or location conditions;
                        4. Is not primarily retail or solely to avoid more restrictive general zoning and
                            license regulations.
                        5. Ensures transportation access in accordance with the Park City
                            Transportation Demand Management Plan, and public safety in accordance
                            with the requirements of the Park City Police Department.
                 B. The conduct of the Special Event will substantially interrupt or prevent the safe and
                    orderly movement of public transportation or other vehicular and pedestrian traffic
                    in the area of its Venue.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                 C. The conduct of the Special Event will require the diversion of so great a number of
                    police, fire, or other essential public employees from normal duties as to prevent
                    reasonable police, fire, or other public services protection to the remainder of the
                    City.
                 D. The concentration of persons, vehicles, or animals will unduly interfere with the
                    movement of police, fire, ambulance, and other emergency vehicles on the streets or
                    with the provision of other public health and safety services.
                 E. The Special Event will substantially interfere with any other Special Event for
                    which a permit has already been granted or with the provision of City services in
                    support of other such events or governmental functions.
                 F. Where      applicable,    the    Applicant   fails  to    provide    the  following:

                       1. The services of a sufficient number of traffic controllers, signs or other City
                           required barriers or traffic devices;
                       2. Monitors for crowd control and safety;
                       3. Safety, health, or sanitation equipment, and services or facilities reasonably
                           necessary to ensure that the Special Event will be conducted without creating
                           unreasonable negative impacts to the area and with due regard for safety and
                           the environment;
                       4. Adequate transportation, off-site parking and traffic circulation in the
                           vicinity of the event;
                       5. Required insurance, cash deposit, or other security; or
                       6. Any other services or facilities necessary to ensure compliance with City
                           ordinance(s).
                       7. Supplemental information as required by the Special Event Manager or
                           designee, including a transportation, parking and traffic control plan,
                           weather/emergency plan, waste and recycling plan, staff and volunteer plan,
                           community impact outreach and notification plan, vendor or concession
                           plan, sponsor and marketing plan, noise exemption request, or site map(s)
                           described in Section 4A-2-7.
                       8. Proof that the Applicant has obtained any applicable city, county, state, or
                           other governmental agency approvals, permits, or licenses.
                 G. The event creates the imminent possibility of violent disorderly conduct likely to
                    endanger public safety or cause significant property damage.
                 H. The event proposes to partner with a Disruptive Technology and has not mitigated
                    potential impacts to businesses or the community due to nature of the technology.
                 I. The Applicant demonstrates inability or unwillingness to conduct the event
                    pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Title or has failed to conduct a
                    previously authorized event in accordance with the law or the terms of a permit, or
                    both.
                 J. The Applicant has not paid City Services, or State Sales Taxes if applicable from
                    previous years.
                 K. The Applicant has not obtained the approval of any other public agencies within
                    whose jurisdiction the event or a portion thereof will occur, or the applicant has not
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                    obtained the approval of the property owner of which the event or a portion thereof
                    will occur.
                 L. EXCEPTIONS. Applications for First Amendment Event permits will be reviewed for
                    compliance with the standards outlined in Subsections B, C, D, E, G, and I above. In
                    reviewing any Application for a permit for a First Amendment Event, the Economic
                    DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee may place reasonable time, place,
                    and manner of restrictions on the First Amendment Event. No such restriction shall
                    be based on the content of the beliefs expressed or anticipated to be expressed during
                    the First Amendment Event, or on factors such as the identity or appearance of
                    persons expected to participate in the assembly.

            HISTORY
            Adopted            by             Ord.             2017-51            on            10/5/2017
            Amended             by             Ord.            2018-52            on            9/27/2018
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-5 Events In Parking Structures
            Applications for Special Events taking place within a parking structure shall be reviewed
            for compliance with all Codes relating to Special Events along with the standards provided
            below:

                 A. Location – Special Events or hospitality functions taking place within a parking
                    structure shall only take place in Historic Recreation Commercial (HRC) District and
                    Historic Commercial Business (HCB) District zones.
                 B. Duration – Permitted Special Events or hospitality events taking place within a
                    parking structure may not exceed 10 calendar days in duration.
                 C. Frequency – Individual parking structures will be eligible to be converted into an
                    event or hospitality use no more than two times during one calendar year.
                 D. Application Requirements – In addition to the Special Event Application
                    requirements, Applicants wishing to utilize a parking structure for a temporary
                    assembly use as part of a Special Event or hospitality function must also provide the
                    following:
                        1. An original set of design plans stamped by a Utah licensed mechanical
                           engineer that meet the intent of required ventilation standards as per the
                           International Mechanical Code Section 403.3.1.1 for both occupancies. This
                           plan must be approved by the Building Official.
                        2. Design plans that demonstrate plumbing systems and fixtures provided
                           within the event space meet the intent of the plumbing fixture requirements
                           of IBC Chapter 29. This plan must be approved by the Building Official.
                        3. All plans must be approved by the Deputy Fire Marshal and shall
                           demonstrate compliance with the International Fire Code.

            HISTORY
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-6 Insurance Requirements
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


            Upon receipt and review of a Pre-Application Review, the Special Event Coordinator will
            submit the Application with a recommendation for final authority by the City Attorney’s
            Office for amount of liability insurance pursuant to the hazard matrix or more to be
            determined within 10 business days following submittal. The Special Event Coordinator
            will deliver written notice of such determination to the Applicant. Applicants shall provide
            proof of liability insurance in the determined amount to proceed with a Special Event
            Application. The City Attorney’s Office shall require the Applicant to further name Park City
            Municipal Corporation as an additional insured. All Applicants shall further indemnify the
            City from liability occurring at the event, except for any claim arising out of the sole
            negligence or intentional torts of the City or its employees. Any reduction of these
            requirements must be approved by the City Manager or their designee prior to proceeding
            with a Special Event Application.
            HISTORY
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-7 Permit Application Supplemental Documents
            The Applicant is responsible for providing the following supplemental documentation to
            accompany the Special Event Application as the Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event
            Manager or designee deems applicable.

                 A. Transportation and traffic control requirements and considerations:
                       1. All traffic and transportation control is the responsibility of the Applicant. A
                          traffic and transportation control plan shall be provided to, and approved by,
                          the Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee upon
                          recommendation by the Transportation Department by the event date. Plans
                          are determined through collaboration with the Special Events Coordinator,
                          and shall include determinations on transit impacts and traffic control,
                          including pedestrian, bicycle, motorized and other methods of transport
                          required for the event;
                       2. Road closures will require appropriate traffic control. Appropriate traffic
                          control may include by uniformed state, county, or local police officers, or a
                          private company, identified event staff, or physical devices, as determined by
                          the Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee;
                       3. The Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee may require
                          an alternate route, or alternative time, if the proposed Event occurs when
                          traffic volumes are high, active road construction is present, an alternative
                          event is already occupying the road, a safer route to accommodate the event,
                          or the event poses a significant inconvenience to the traveling public;
                       4. The Applicant shall restore the road or trail segment, or impacted area to its
                          original condition, free from litter and other material charges;
                       5. The Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee may monitor
                          and ensure compliance with the terms and conditions of any Special Event
                          Permit.
                 B. Contingency Plan Requirements:
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                        1. Considering the nature of the planned Special Event, the Applicant shall
                           develop:
                                1. Contingency or emergency plans, including Emergency Medical
                                   Service, fire, and police;
                                2. Operations plan and timeline including set up and breakdown of the
                                   event and its venues;
                                3. Weather date and/or weather conditions plan;
                                4. Residential notification and mitigation plan;
                                5. Planned rest areas, water and toilet facilities, and trash and recycling
                                   cleanup;
                                6. Plans to ensure that participants obey the conditions of the Special
                                   Event Permit and all other generally applicable traffic laws, lights, and
                                   signs;
                                7. The Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee may
                                   require that the Applicant provide outreach and notice to participants,
                                   bystanders, or the public of all plans related to parking, road closures,
                                   noise or other impacts. The amount of and method of notice shall be
                                   dependent on the circumstances of the Special Event Permit.
                 C. Special Event Site Identification and Property Use Requirements.
                 D. List of all vendors that are allowed as part of the event, including the business,
                    organization, or sponsor name and primary contact information.
                 E. The Applicant shall provide a detailed map showing the proposed site, course and
                    direction of the event. Locations of parking areas, signs and banners, water stations,
                    power sources, waste, recycling, and toilet facilities, temporary structures and other
                    appropriate information shall also be included on this map. The Applicant is
                    responsible for obtaining appropriate permission to locate these facilities on private
                    or Public property.

            HISTORY
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-8 Conflicting Permit Applications

                 A. No more than one Special Event shall be approved for the same date(s) unless the
                    Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee finds that the events will
                    not adversely impact one another and that concurrent scheduling of the events will
                    not adversely impact the public health, safety, and welfare. In making this
                    determination, the Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee will
                    apply the following criteria:
                       1. Geographic separation of the events;
                       2. Proposed time and duration of the events;
                       3. Anticipated attendance volumes;
                       4. Necessity for public personnel, equipment, and/or transportation services at
                           the events; and
                       5. Anticipated traffic and parking impacts.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                 B. In cases where an event double booking conflict arises, the Economic
                    DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager or designee will encourage any secondary, or
                    subsequent, Applicant to review the feasibility of collocating with the original
                    Applicant. If collocating proves impractical, the Economic DevelopmentSpecial
                    Event Manager or designee will encourage any secondary, or subsequent, Applicant
                    to offer a viable alternative strategy that meets the needs of all Applicants, while
                    also ensuring adequate public safety measures remain intact.
                 C. If no voluntary agreement is reached, then the Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event
                    Manager or designee shall resolve the issue based on the following order of
                    priorities:
                        1. The Special Event that provides the greatest overall community and cultural
                            value to the City, which for recurring events may be based on annual event
                            debrief.
                        2. Special Events planned, organized, or presented by state, federal, or City
                            governmental entities or agents shall have priority over conflicting
                            Applications if:
                                a. The Application is timely filed and processed by the City;
                                b. Said governmental Application is made in good faith and not with the
                                   effect or purpose of improperly chilling constitutional rights of
                                   conflicting Applicants.
                 D. If no voluntary agreement is reached, then the first-in-time Application (including
                    consecutive, prior year approval) shall be given priority. The conflicting Applicant
                    shall be advised of other open dates on the City’s events calendar.

            HISTORY
            Adopted            by             Ord.              2017-51             on            10/5/2017
            Amended             by             Ord.             2018-52             on            9/27/2018
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-9 Licenses Necessary For A Special Event Permit
            The Applicant/Permittee shall procure any applicable city, county, state, or other
            governmental agency approvals, permits, or licenses.
            HISTORY
            Adopted            by             Ord.              2017-51             on            10/5/2017
            Amended             by             Ord.             2018-52             on            9/27/2018
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-10 Fees To Be Assessed; Exceptions

                 A. APPLICATION FEE. Special Event Application Fees shall be assessed according to
                    the Fee resolution. All Application Fees are due and payable upon receipt of invoice
                    from the Park City Special Events Department. Applications for events which have
                    been previously permitted in park City will not be accepted unless the Applicant has
                    paid fees in full of the previous year. An Applicant that qualifies as a new event level
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                     is      responsible        for          Fee   amounts     of   the     given      level.

                 B. CITY SERVICE FEES. Upon receipt of a completed Special Event Application, the
                    Special Events Coordinator will provide the Applicant with an estimate of City
                    Service Fees based on the Park City Fee Schedule and will provide estimated costs
                    for City services arising from the event, including but not limited to the use of City
                    personnel and/or equipment, City transportation services, City Public Safety
                    services, City Venues or facilities, Building inspections, and user Fees. A final
                    assessment of City costs will occur upon completion of the Special Event. All City
                    service Fees will be adjudged to reflect actual cost. Unless reduced pursuant to
                    Section 4A-2-9, all City service Fees must be paid in full within 30 days of the final
                    assessment and receipt of invoice of City costs for the Special Event.

                 C. FINANCIAL SECURITY. The Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager is
                    authorized to require an Applicant to post a cash deposit or other security accepted
                    by the Legal Department for all estimated contingent costs prior to the issuance of a
                    Special Event Permit, as a guarantee against Fees, damages, clean up, or loss of City
                    Property.

                 D. EXCEPTIONS. Specified Fees do not apply to an Application for a First Amendment
                    Event permit if the Applicant demonstrates, by sufficient evidence, that the
                    imposition of Fees would create a financial hardship on the Applicant or would have
                    a detrimental effect on services provided to the public.

            HISTORY
            Adopted            by             Ord.                   2017-51         on             10/5/2017
            Amended             by             Ord.                  2018-52         on             9/27/2018
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-11 Fee Reductions

                 A. Annually, the City will allocate up to $200,000 to reduce City Service Fees required
                    for Special Events unless otherwise approved through a Special Event City Services
                    Agreement or Special Event where the City is the Applicant. The City Council may
                    appropriate additional funds through a public process. Allocation of reduced Fees
                    will be determined at the sole discretion of the Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event
                    Manager and Budget Manager(s), City Manager, and City Council. Unmet thresholds
                    at the end of a year will not be carried forward to future years.
                 B. The City Manager may reduce the following Special Event City Service Fees up to a
                    total of $2530,000 per event after reviewing a recommendation from the Economic
                    DevelopmentSpecial Event Manager and Budget Manager upon a finding of
                    eligibility pursuant to the criteria provided. If the total request exceeds $2530,000 per
                    event or includes other City fees outside the fees mentioned below and is not part of
                    a Special Event City Services Agreement or is not a Special Event where the City is
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                    the Applicant or the event is not budgeted for, then the request must be approved by
                    City Council in a Public Meeting.
                        1. Special Event Application;
                        2. Building permit;
                        3. Facility and/or equipment rentals;
                        4. Field and/or park rentals;
                        5. Special use of public parking permit;
                        5.6. Transit fees;
                        6.7. Bleachers;
                        8. Trail;
                        7.9. Community Engagement; and
                        8.10.        Public Safety Personnel.
                 C. Fee reduction requests will be reviewed during review of the Special Event
                    Application. Fee reduction requests must be submitted to the Special Events
                    Coordinator on a Special Event Fee Reduction Application according to the following
                    deadlines:
                        1. Level Three, Four and Five Events occurring between March and August are
                             due the first Friday in October.
                        2. Level Three, Four and Five Events occurring between September and
                             February are due the first Friday in April.
                        3. Applications that are determined to be a Level One or Level Two event shall
                             submit fee reduction Applications at the time the Special Event Application
                             is due.
                        3.4. Late

                           Applications for fee reductions must demonstrate an immediate need for
                           reduction and provide justification as to why the Application was not filed
                           within the specified deadline.
                 D. Fee reduction Applications under $10,000 will be evaluated by the Special Events
                    Department. The Special Events Manager will make a recommendation to the
                    Economic Development Manager, Budget Manager(s), and City Manager. Fee
                    Reduction Applications over $10,000 will be reviewed by a committee comprised of
                    City Departments which the Fees directly impact and a recommendation will be
                    submitted to the Special Events Manager. The Special Events Manager will make a
                    recommendation to the Economic Development Manager, Budget Manager(s), and
                    City Manager. All decisions may be appealed with the final decision given by the
                    City Manager for fees totaling below $2530,000 and City Council for items over
                    $2530,000 or as according to the City's Purchasing Policy. The City shall annually
                    publish a list of all organizations/businesses receiving Special Event Fee Reductions
                    on the City's website. Eligibility for a full or partial Fee reduction shall be determined
                    by the City pursuant to the following criteria, none of which shall be individually
                    controlling:
                        1. Reason for choosing Park City and specific Venue for the event.The event
                           qualifies as a Community Identifying Event. The event does not use Park City
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines


                              as a backdrop and provides reason for choosing Park City as a specific venue
                              for the event. Reason for choosing Park City and specific Venue for the event.
                         2.   The event cCharges event admission or Feesfees for participation and has
                              policy for attendees or participants unable to pay such Fees;
                         3.   Event The event organizers provides free programs to the community, or
                              raises funds for organizations that provide free or low-cost programs,
                              benefiting local youth, seniors, or under-served constituents of Park City,
                              and/or is aligned with City Council's critical goals;
                         4.   Provides community and cultural event opportunities during resort off
                              seasons defined as October 15 to November 20 and April 15 to the Thursday
                              before Memorial Day weekend. Event is not held during a Peak Period;
                         5.   Demonstrates extraordinary efforts to reduce and mitigate environmental,
                              transportation, and residential impacts associated with the event consistent
                              with adopted City Council priority/policy goals and the General Plan; and
                         6.   Demonstrates that the imposition of Fees would create a financial hardship
                              on the Applicant or would have a detrimental effect on services provided to
                              the public.
                        6.
                 E. Fee reduction requests must be filed bi-annually, unless otherwise approved in a
                    Special Event City Services City Services Agreement by the City Council. Approval
                    of any fee reduction for any Application shall not create a precedent for future
                    requests. .Applications for fee reduction shall only be considered for the first three
                    years of event approval, unless otherwise approved under in a City Special Event
                    City Services Service Agreement or by City Councilqualified as a Community
                    Identifying Event. If an Applicant appeals to have their Fee Reduction Application
                    considered after three consecutive years, the Economic DevelopmentSpecial Event
                    Manager or their designee may require, by a showing of good cause or extraordinary
                    circumstances, for the Application to be considered. . Approval of any fee reduction
                    for any Application shall not create a precedent for future requests.
                               1.

            HISTORY
            Adopted            by             Ord.               2017-51            on             10/5/2017
            Amended             by             Ord.              2018-52            on             9/27/2018
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-12 Film-Making
            Film-making shall be considered Special Events unless such event does not create
            substantial public impact or require substantial City service. Any filming undertaken by
            any business or corporation must first be licensed as a business under Title 4 of this Code.
            Corporations falling under the provisions of this Title or who are specifically in film-
            making or promotions on private or City Property must, as a provision of their permit,
            provide the following: proof of insurance, shooting schedule or schedule of events, written
            permission of property owners, and access to any set or site for purposes of Code
            enforcement.
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines

            HISTORY
            Adopted            by             Ord.              2017-51             on             10/5/2017
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-2-13 Criminal Penalty
            Any person who willfully violates any provision of this Title shall be guilty of a Class B
            misdemeanor. Persons conducting Special Events without having first obtained a Special
            Event Permit are subject to arrest and the Special Event is subject to closure.
            HISTORY
            Adopted by Ord. 2017-51 on 10/5/2017

            4A-2-14 Revocation For Cause; Notice To Cure

                 A. NOTICE TO CURE. If the Special Events Coordinator or any sworn law enforcement
                    officer determines that the conditions of any permit issued pursuant to this Title
                    have been or are being violated, then notice shall be given to the Permittee, Sponsor,
                    and designated organizer’s representative of the Special Event to cure the violation.
                 B. FAILURE TO CURE. It is unlawful for the Permittee, Sponsor, or on-site organizer’s
                    representative of an authorized Special Event to fail to take reasonable steps to
                    promptly cure any notice of violation of this Title. It is also unlawful for any
                    participant or spectator to fail to comply with lawful directions issued by any sworn
                    law enforcement officer or by the Permittee, Sponsor, or on-site organizer’s
                    representative      to       cure      their      violation     of      this     Title.

                 C. CLEAR AND PRESENT DANGER. If a sworn law enforcement officer determines,
                    after consultation with the Chief of Police or the Chief of Police’s designee, that any
                    failure to cure a violation of this Title creates a clear and present danger of
                    immediate significant harm to life, public safety, or property which cannot be
                    reasonably mitigated by increased public safety enforcement and which, on balance,
                    outweighs the constitutionally protected rights of the organizers or participants in
                    the Special Event, the Permittee, Sponsor, or on-site organizer’s representative of the
                    Special Event shall be promptly notified that the permit is revoked and that the
                    Special       Event       must        immediately         cease        and       desist.

                 D. VIOLATION OF CEASE AND DESIST ORDER. If a Special Event Permit is revoked as
                    specified in Subsection (C) above, then it shall be unlawful for any person to fail to
                    obey the order to cease and desist from illegal activities.

            HISTORY
            Adopted            by             Ord.              2017-51             on             10/5/2017
            Amended by Ord. 2022-36 on 9/15/2022

            4A-3 Public Outdoor Music Plazas-REPEALED BY ORD 2019-35
            HISTORY
            Adopted              by             Ord.            2017-51             on             10/5/2017
            Repealed by Ord. 2019-35 on 6/27/2019
DocuSign Envelope ID: 2DD8B998-B813-479E-B2E8-41B63463E0EC


            Exhibit B: Special Event Title 4A Draft Redlines
