Docusign Envelope ID: C92EC605-2FA1-4855-A192-AD456F605332




             Ordinance No. 2024-15
              AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 2 OF THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF PARK CITY,
                        UTAH TO INCLUDE CHAPTER 7, DONATIONS TO CITY
             WHEREAS, the City seeks to encourage and facilitate donations to the City;
             WHEREAS, the City seeks to balance the needs and desires of the community with the
             benefits and costs to the City associated with donations;
             WHEREAS, the City seeks to establish uniformity in policy, process and timelines
             regarding the acceptance of donations to the City; and
             WHEREAS, the Park City Council has determined that adoption of this ordinance
             promotes the best interests of the City;
             BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH, THAT:
             Section I. Amendment and Repealed. Title 2 of the Municipal Code of Park City is
             hereby amended to include Chapter 7 to read as outlined in Exhibit A. Resolution 10-
             11, which pertains to Memorial and Community Project Donations, is hereby repealed in
             its entirety.
             Section II. Severability. If any section, subsection, sentence, clause, phrase, or portion
             of this ordinance is, for any reason, held invalid or unconstitutional by any court of
             competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be deemed a separate, distinct, and
             independent provision, and such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining
             portions of this ordinance.
             Section III. Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective upon publication.
                       PASSED AND ADOPTED this 11th day of July, 2024.
                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                              _____      ____
                                                              Mayor Nann Worel
             Attest:

                                        ____
             Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder

             Approved as to form:


                                               ___
             City Attorney’s Office
Docusign Envelope ID: C92EC605-2FA1-4855-A192-AD456F605332




                                                             EXHIBIT A
             2-7 DONATIONS TO CITY
             2-7-1 PURPOSE
             The purpose of this Chapter is to establish policy and guidelines for acceptance of
             donations to the City. Its provisions establish a review process that considers the
             intentions of the donor, the needs and desires of the community, and City benefits and
             costs associated with proposed donations, including long term costs of maintenance
             and care of donated property.
             2-7-2 SCOPE
             A. Except as provided in subsection B of this section, the provisions of this Chapter
                shall apply to any donation made, or proposed to be made, to the City.
             B. This Chapter does not apply to:
               1. A grant;
               2. A donation consisting solely of volunteer labor;
               3. A donation governed by state or federal law;
               4. A donation of Public Art governed by Resolution 18-2020, which is reviewed by the
                  Art Board; or
               5. A donation to the Library governed by Title 2, Chapter 4, Section 15 of this Code.
             2-7-3 DEFINITIONS
             As used in this Chapter:
                 A. Cash Equivalent. An asset that can be readily converted into a known amount of
                    cash or that can be exchanged for a specified value of goods or services in the
                    same manner as an equivalent value of cash.
                 B. Donation. Anything (including multi-year contributions) other than a grant, that is
                    contributed to the City by a donor without receiving valuable consideration from
                    the City. It includes a building or structure, an endowment, an improvement, land,
                    materials, money, a cash equivalent, a negotiable security, or volunteer labor
                    paired with another type of donation, but does not include a contribution or
                    payment associated with a sponsorship, naming right, or other similar
                    arrangement.
                 C. Donor. An individual or organization that makes a donation to the City, including
                    a trust, estate, firm, partnership, joint venture, club, company, joint stock
                    company, corporation, limited liability company, association, society, or any other
                    group of individuals acting together, whether mutual, cooperative, fraternal,
                    nonprofit, or otherwise.
Docusign Envelope ID: C92EC605-2FA1-4855-A192-AD456F605332




                 D. Excess Funds. Money, or another kind of donation that has been converted to
                    money, contributed by a donor to the City that is unexpended after completion of
                    the purpose for which a donation is used.
                 E. Grant. A monetary or non-monetary contribution received pursuant to a formal
                    application process and a formal award, or any contribution received from a
                    governmental entity.
                 F. Nonmonetary Donation. A donation to the City that cannot be classified as a
                    donation of money, a cash equivalent, a negotiable security, or real property.
                 G. Volunteer. A person who donates service under the direction of a City official,
                    employee, or agent; without pay or other compensation except expenses actually
                    and reasonably incurred as approved by the City.
                 H. Volunteer Labor. Work provided by a volunteer under the direction of a City
                    official, employee, or agent, that advances or contributes to a City objective.
             2-7-4 POLICY
             A. Park City encourages donations from individuals and entities that support programs
                and services the City provides to the public. The City shall evaluate whether to
                accept a proposed donation based on the provisions of this Chapter and pertinent
                City policies and procedures. The City shall have sole discretion to determine
                whether to accept or decline a proposed donation. The intent of the City is to help
                donors reach their intended goals while at the same time taking action consistent
                with the mission, goals, plans, resources, and limitations of the City as a whole.
             B. A person who wishes to make a donation is encouraged to contact the recipient City
                department to discuss the proposed donation and the process for review and
                acceptance thereof.
             C. Subject to the provisions of this Chapter and in compliance with any applicable law,
                the City may accept a donation for the purpose of providing an improvement on City
                property, including an improvement constructed with volunteer labor. Any
                improvement shall be completed in conformance with applicable City policy and
                ordinances, development requirements, and other adopted standards.
             D. A donation may be used for any public purpose, subject to the provisions of this
                Chapter and any applicable donation agreement. If it becomes impossible or
                impractical to administer the donation in accordance with the wishes of the donor, an
                alternate purpose, which most closely aligns with the donor's intent, will be
                determined by the City.
             E. This Chapter shall not be construed to create any right for an individual or
                organization to make an improvement on City property.
             F. The City Manager, or the City Manager’s designee, in consultation with the finance
                department, is authorized to establish policies and procedures related to donations
                that are consistent with this Chapter.
Docusign Envelope ID: C92EC605-2FA1-4855-A192-AD456F605332




             2-7-5 DONATIONS OF MONEY, CASH EQUIVALENTS, AND NEGOTIABLE
             SECURITIES
             A. All donations of money, a cash equivalent, or a negotiable security less than
                $10,000 may be accepted by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee in
                consultation with the finance department. All donations of money, a cash equivalent,
                or a negotiable security equal to or greater than $10,000 must be approved by City
                Council prior to acceptance of the donation.
             B. Before any donation of a negotiable security may be accepted, the City Manager or
                designee must determine, in consultation with the finance department, that the
                proposed donation is in accordance with applicable law and the proposed donation
                is either:
               1. Not subject to conditions or specifications; or
               2. Subject to conditions or specifications approved pursuant to applicable provisions
                  of this Chapter.
             C. A negotiable security may be held or sold at a marketable rate and the proceeds of
                such sale used consistent with any accepted donor conditions or specifications and,
                if there are no such conditions or specifications, in accordance with subsection C of
                this section or any other applicable provisions of this Chapter.
             D. A donation of money, a cash equivalent, or proceeds of the sale of a negotiable
                security shall be delivered to the finance department and deposited in a fund or
                account designated by the finance director or designee.
             2-7-6 DONATIONS OF REAL PROPERTY
             A. All donations of real property require City Council approval. Except as otherwise
                provided in subsection B of this section, the Council may accept a donation of real
                property that:
               1. Is consistent with the policy and objectives of any applicable master plan;
               2. Is free of any mortgage or liens against the property;
               3. Does not create an unfunded financial liability for the City;
               4. Does not have any hazardous waste or condition that would cause the City to
                  become a potentially responsible party as provided in the Comprehensive
                  Environmental Response Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), as
                  amended;
               5. Will be transferred to the City in conformity with applicable City ordinances and
                  policies; and
               6. Is located within the City, the City's annexation policy area, or the City's watershed
                  protection area.
Docusign Envelope ID: C92EC605-2FA1-4855-A192-AD456F605332




             B. If the requirements of subsection A of this section cannot be met, the City Manager,
                or the City Manager’s designee, in consultation with the finance department, may
                recommend to the City Council that the real property donation nevertheless be
                accepted, subject to any conditions the City Manager, or designee, deems prudent.
                The City Council shall thereafter determine whether to accept or reject the proposed
                donation or propose additional/different conditions.
             2-7-7 NONMONETARY DONATIONS (EXCEPT REAL PROPERTY):
             All nonmonetary donations less than $5,000 may be accepted by the City Manager or
             the City Manager’s designee in consultation with the finance department. All
             nonmonetary donations equal to or greater than $5,000 must be approved by City
             Council prior to acceptance of the donation.
             2-7-8 OWNERSHIP OF IMPROVEMENTS
             Any donated improvement made on public property becomes City property and is
             subject to the laws, policies, and procedures of the City.
             2-7-9 DONATION AGREEMENT
             A. The City shall not accept a donation of money, a cash equivalent, or a negotiable
                security equal to or greater than $10,000 unless the donor enters into a donation
                agreement approved by the City Manager or City Manager’s designee. The City has
                the discretion to require a donation agreement before accepting a donation of less
                than this amount.
             B. The City shall not accept a donation of real property unless the donor enters into a
                donation agreement approved by the City Manager or designee.
             C. The City shall not accept a non-monetary donation equal to or greater than $5,000
                unless the donor enters into a donation agreement approved by the City Manager or
                designee. The City has the discretion to require a donation agreement before
                accepting a donation of less than this amount.
             D. The City may enter into a donation agreement with a donor that provides a
                framework under which the donor may make, under the agreement, multiple
                donations to the City over a specified period of time. Such agreement does not need
                to identify the total number of donations to be made and does not need to identify
                each donation with specificity. However, the parameters and the framework the City
                and the donor will use to identify and approve each separate donation must be set
                out in the agreement. Any agreement providing for multiple donations over a
                specified period of time cannot take effect unless it is first approved by the City
                Manager or designee.
             E. The City Manager, City Attorney, and Finance Manager, of their respective
                designees, with cause specified in writing, may jointly waive any of the requirements
                in this section with respect to a particular donation.
Docusign Envelope ID: C92EC605-2FA1-4855-A192-AD456F605332




             2-7-10 DONATION ACKNOWLEDGMENT
             When required by applicable law or internal revenue service regulations, the finance
             department shall provide a letter to each donor that formally acknowledges the
             donation. The letter must include a statement that because the City is subject to the
             provisions of the Government Records Access and Management Act, the City cannot
             guarantee anonymity of a donor.
             2-7-11 TAX LIABILITY
             The City shall make no representation or guarantee as to the tax implications of any
             donation made to the City. Information provided by the City, its officials, employees, or
             agents in connection with a donation is not intended to be a substitute for professional
             advice. Each donor is responsible for documenting the value of the donation for tax
             purposes.
             2-7-12 USE OF EXCESS FUNDS
             Any excess funds for which the donor has not provided a specific disposition in the
             donation agreement shall be transferred to a City fund pursuant to the City's budget
             process upon the earlier of either:
             A. The expiration of five years after the date the City took possession of the donation;
                or
             B. The City's fulfillment of the purpose of the donation.
             2-7-13 DAMAGED, LOST, STOLEN, OR WORN DONATIONS
             A. The City is not obligated to replace any donation or improvement that is lost, stolen,
                damaged, or worn.
             B. Except as otherwise provided in a donation agreement, the City may remove any
                donated improvement for reasons including safety, deterioration, neglect, vandalism,
                or the City's inability to finance ongoing maintenance or repairs.
             2-7-14 CONFLICTS OF LAW
             If any provision of this Chapter conflicts with a provision of an applicable state or federal
             law or regulation, such law or regulation shall control.
