Docusign Envelope ID: E2F4CE50-A64C-4D8C-BE24-6566807B3EDB




            Ordinance No. 2024-16

            AN ORDINANCE ENACTING TITLE 2, CHAPTER 8, AND MOVING AND AMENDING
            SECTIONS 2-4-13, 2-4-14, AND 2-4-15 OF THE MUNICIPAL CODE OF PARK CITY
            TO CREATE A CONSOLIDATED CODE CHAPTER GOVERNING PARK CITY’S
            BOARDS, COMMITTEES, AND COMMISSIONS

            WHEREAS, Park City has created boards, committees, and commissions over time
            through the adoption of resolutions and ordinances.

            WHEREAS, the rules governing those boards, committees, and commissions differ and
            are not found in a consolidated location.

            WHEREAS, the City Council finds that consolidating the rules for boards, committees,
            and commissions into one location and providing more uniform rules for governance will
            aid in transparency and administration.

            BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH, THAT:

            Section 1. Title 2, Chapter 8, of the Municipal Code of Park City is hereby enacted to
            read as shown in Exhibit A. Sections 2-4-13, 2-4-14, and 2-4-15 of the Municipal Code
            of Park City are hereby moved into Title 2, Chapter 8, and amended to read as shown in
            Exhibit A.

            Section 2. This ordinance supersedes any conflicting provisions of previously adopted
            ordinances and resolutions.

            Section 3. This ordinance will be effective on the day of publication.

            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 5th day of September, 2024.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                             ____                    ___
                                                             Mayor Nann Worel
            Attest:


            City Recorder’s Office

            Approved as to form:



            City Attorney’s Office
Docusign Envelope ID: E2F4CE50-A64C-4D8C-BE24-6566807B3EDB


            Exhibit A


            2-8-1 Purpose
            The purpose of this chapter is to establish common rules for the City boards, commissions, and
            committees enumerated in section 2-8-2.

            2-8-2 City Boards and Commissions Named
                A . For the purposes of this chapter, the term “City board” or “board” means the following City
                    boards, commissions, and committees:
                    1. Board of Appeals
                    2. Citizens Open Space Advisory Committee
                    3. Deed Restriction Advisory Committee
                    4. Library Board
                    5. Neighborhood First Street Committee
                    6. Nonprofit Services Advisory Committee
                    7. Police Complaint Review Committee
                    8. Public Art Advisory Board
                    9. Recreation Advisory Board
                    10. Special Event Advisory Committee
                B. The following boards and commissions are not covered by this chapter:
                    1. Appeal Panel (Park City Code Title 15, Chapter 1, Section 18)
                    2. Board of Adjustment (Park City Code Title 15, Chapter 10)
                    3. Historic Preservation Board (Park City Code Title 15, Chapter 11)
                    4. Planning Commission (Park City Code Title 15, Chapter 12)

            2-8-3 Conflicts of Law
            If a provision of this chapter conflicts with a federal, state, or local law applicable to a particular City
            board, such law shall supersede the conflicting provision. If rules for a specific board, commission, or
            committee found in this chapter conflict with the common rules, the specific rules will control. The
            contents of this chapter will supersede any conflicting resolution or policy established for any specific
            board by the board.

            2-8-4 Appointment; Advice and Consent
                A. Appointments of City board members shall be made by the Mayor with the advice and consent
                    of the City Council unless otherwise provided by this code or other law regarding a particular
                    City board. City boards should represent a cross-section of the City. Individuals should serve on
                    only one board at a time, thus allowing more people to serve on boards.
                B. Employees of Park City Municipal Corporation are not eligible for membership on a City board
                    unless an exception in this code or other law applicable to a particular board allows such
                    appointments.
                C. Spouses and family members of City employees may be considered for appointment to a City
                    board when the board is not advisory to the employee’s department or job responsibilities.

            2-8-5 Term
                A. Member appointments to City boards will be made for three-year terms beginning on July 1 and
                    expiring on June 30, except when:
                    1. A provision of state law or this code applicable to a particular board specifies a different
                        term; or
                    2. An appointment is to fill a vacancy during an unexpired term, in which case, the
                        appointment shall be for the unexpired term.


                                                             Ex. A | pg. 1
Docusign Envelope ID: E2F4CE50-A64C-4D8C-BE24-6566807B3EDB


            Exhibit A


                B. Board members shall be limited to two consecutive full terms.
                C. A board member whose term has expired may continue to serve until a replacement board
                   member is appointed.
                D. Board member terms should be staggered to promote continuity on the board.

            2-8-6 Vacancy
            Vacancies occurring in the membership of a City board shall be filled by appointment by the Mayor with
            the advice and consent of the council for the unexpired term.

            2-8-7 Oath of Office
            Board members shall take the oath of office required by law for City officers and file the oath with the
            City Recorder.

            2-8-8 Conflicts of Interest
            City board members are subject to the City’s Conflict of Interest Code, Title 3, Chapter 2, and the
            Municipal Officers’ and Employees’ Ethics Act, Title 10, Chapter 3, Part 13 of the Utah Code, or its
            successor.

            2-8-9 Removal from Office
                A. Any City board member may be removed from office by the Mayor with the advice and consent
                    of Council for cause prior to the expiration of the term for which the member was appointed.
                    For the purposes of this section, “cause” includes willful misconduct or intentional failure to
                    perform stated duties.
                B. Any City board member failing to attend two board meetings without advance notice or four
                    total meetings in one calendar year may be removed by the Mayor with the advice and consent
                    of Council prior to the expiration of the term for which the member was appointed.
                C. If another section of the Park City Code conflicts with the procedures in this section, this section
                    will control for board members.

            2-8-10 Compliance with the Open and Public Meetings Act
            Every meeting of a City board shall conform with the Open and Public Meetings Act, as set forth in Title
            52, Chapter 4 of the Utah Code or its successor, including, the requirements for public notice, open
            meetings, closed meetings, meeting minutes, and electronic meetings.

            2-8-11 Board Meetings
                A. Each City board shall convene regular meetings, the frequency of which shall be determined by
                    the board except as otherwise provided by rules set forth in this code applicable to a particular
                    board.
                B. Special meetings may be ordered by a majority of the board or the board chair.
                C. Except as otherwise provided by law, City boards may establish their own policies and rules of
                    procedure governing the board and the proper conduct of its meetings provided that those
                    policies and procedures do not conflict with the provisions of this Chapter.

            2-8-12 Election of Board Officers
            Each City board shall select one of its members as chair and another member as vice-chair who shall
            perform the duties of the chair during the absence or disability of the chair. These positions shall be for
            one-year terms.



                                                             Ex. A | pg. 2
Docusign Envelope ID: E2F4CE50-A64C-4D8C-BE24-6566807B3EDB


            Exhibit A


            2-8-13 Quorum and Board Action
                A. A quorum is a majority of members who have been appointed to and are currently serving on a
                    particular City board.
                B. A City board may hold a meeting and take action only when a quorum is present.

            2-8-14 Board of Appeals
                A. Purpose and Authority. The Board of Appeals shall hear all appeals filed according to the
                   International Building Code, Chapter 5 of the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings Code for Park
                   City, as adopted by Title 11, Chapter 6 of the Park City Code, and Chapter 12 of the Housing
                   Code of Park City, as adopted by Title 11, Chapter 5 of the Park City Code. Any appeal made to
                   the Board of Appeals pursuant to the International Building Code shall be filed within 30 days of
                   approval or denial of the permit. The time for appeal of actions under the Abatement of
                   Dangerous Buildings Code and the Housing Code shall be as specified in each of those respective
                   codes, but in no instance longer than 30 days. All decisions and findings of the Board of Appeals
                   will be in writing to the Chief Building Official with a copy provided to the appellant.
                B. Organization. The Board of Appeals consists of three members who are qualified by experience
                   and training to pass upon matters pertaining to building construction. The Chief Building Official
                   shall be an ex officio member and shall act as Secretary of the Board of Appeals.
                C. Rules and Regulations. The Board of Appeals shall adopt reasonable rules and regulations for
                   conducting its investigations. A copy of all rules and regulations adopted by the Board of
                   Appeals shall be delivered to the Chief Building Official who will make them available to the
                   public without cost.

            2-8-15 Citizens Open Space Advisory Committee
                A. Purpose and Authority. The Citizens Open Space Advisory Committee will:
                   1. Investigate and recommend a strategy for the acquisition of open space, including
                        recommending specific parcels for acquisition and prioritizing available lands for acquisition;
                        and
                   2. Recommend improvements to open space to protect critical natural amenities and provide
                        safe public access.
                B. Organization. Members may be appointed when dedicated open space funding is available. The
                   committee will disband when dedicated open space funding is exhausted.

            2-8-16 Deed Restriction Advisory Committee
                A. Purpose and Authority. The Deed Restriction Advisory Committee will make recommendations
                   to the City Manager about the acquisition of deed restrictions pursuant to the Live Park City –
                   Lite Deed Restriction Program using the following criteria:
                   1. Supports and maintains a permanent, year-round resident population that grows a diverse
                        community where a wide range of demographics, economics, occupations, and family
                        household sizes are served.
                   2. Consistent with housing policies adopted by the Park City Municipal Code for the acquisition
                        of deed restrictions.
                   3. Demonstrated demand exists within the resident housing market for the type of residential
                        product (studio, flat, townhome, duplex, single family, etc.) that is to be deed restricted.
                   4. Fulfills a demonstrated need within a defined segment (for rent, sale, owner occupied, etc.).
                   5. Demonstrates a quantifiable return on investment based upon appraisals.



                                                             Ex. A | pg. 3
Docusign Envelope ID: E2F4CE50-A64C-4D8C-BE24-6566807B3EDB


            Exhibit A


                   6. The market value of the deed restriction is comparable in value to other existing deed
                      restrictions within the community as demonstrated by an appraisal.
                   7. Most cost-effective and efficient use of the City’s limited supply of financial resources;
                   8. A transaction cap of $200,000 per dwelling unit is to be deed-restricted unless approved by
                      the City Council.
                B. Organization. The Deed Restriction Advisory Committee will consist of five members. Members
                   must be residents of Park City.

            2-8-17 Library Board
                A. Purpose and Authority. The Library Board of Directors may with the approval of the governing
                   body have control of the expenditure of the Library Account, of construction, lease or sale of
                   Park City Library buildings and land, and of the operation of the Library. The Library Board will
                   be responsible for the maintenance and care of the Library and will establish policies for its
                   operation.
                B. Organization. The Library Board will consist of not less than five members and not more than
                   nine members. Members must be Park City residents. Not more than one member of City
                   Council may be, at any one time, a member of the Library Board. Directors shall serve without
                   compensation, but their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
                   official duties may be paid from Library funds.
                C. Rules and Regulations. The Library Board of Directors shall make, amend and revoke rules and
                   regulations, not inconsistent with the law, for the governing of the Library. The Library shall be
                   free to the use of the inhabitants of Park City, subject to the rules and regulations adopted by
                   the Board. The Board may exclude from the use of the Library any and all persons who shall
                   willfully violate such rules. The Board may extend the privileges and use of the Library to
                   persons residing outside of the City upon such terms and conditions as it may prescribe by its
                   regulations.
                D. Annual Reports. The Library Board of Directors shall make an annual report to the governing
                   body of the City on the condition and operation of the library, including a financial statement.
                   Such a report may be in the form of budget documents submitted each year to the City Council.
                   The Directors shall also provide for the keeping of such records as shall be required by the Utah
                   State Library in its request for an annual report from the public libraries, and shall submit such
                   an annual report to the State Library.
                E. Personnel. The Library Board of Directors shall appoint a competent person as Librarian to have
                   immediate charge of the Library with such duties and compensation for the Librarian’s services
                   as it shall fix and determine. The Librarian shall act as the executive officer for the Library Board.
                   The Board shall appoint, upon the recommendation of the Librarian, other personnel as needed.
                   The Board may delegate the authority of this section to the City Manager and provide for the
                   inclusion of Library personnel in the City personnel system pursuant to section 10-3-1104 of the
                   Utah Code, or its successor.
                F. Donations. Any person desiring to make donations of money, personal property, or real estate
                   for the benefit of the Library shall have the right to vest the title to the money, personal
                   property or real estate so donated, in trust for the benefit of the Library. All monetary donations
                   shall be held in the City treasury to the credit of the Library account, and may not be used for
                   any purpose except that of the Library. These funds shall be drawn upon by the authorized
                   officers of the City only upon presentation of the properly authenticated vouchers or purchase
                   order of the Board.




                                                             Ex. A | pg. 4
Docusign Envelope ID: E2F4CE50-A64C-4D8C-BE24-6566807B3EDB


            Exhibit A


            2-8-18 Neighborhoods First - Street Committee
                A. Purpose and Authority. The Neighborhoods First - Streets Committee implements portions of
                   the Neighborhoods First - Streets Program, which aims to enhance neighborhood livability and
                   safety by reducing speeding traffic with traffic calming solutions. By measuring the impacts of
                   these solutions with the help of clear evidence and documented processes, the Neighborhoods
                   First - Streets Committee works to improve compliance with posted speed limits, stop signs, and
                   other traffic control devices.
                B. Organization.
                   1. The Neighborhoods First - Streets Committee will be made up of a representative from each
                        of the following:
                        i. The Park City Engineering Department,
                        ii. The Park City Police Department,
                        iii. The Park City Public Works Department,
                        iv. The Park City Fire Department,
                        v. The Park City Transportation Department,
                        vi. A Park City Resident Advocate,
                        vii. A Park City Resident, and
                        viii. Summit County Government Representative.
                   2. Selection Process. All of the representatives will be selected by the department or
                        organization they are representing except the Park City Resident Advocate will be selected
                        by the City Manager and the Park City Resident will be appointed by the Mayor with the
                        advice and consent of the City Council.

            2-8-19 Nonprofit Services Advisory Committee
                A. Purpose and Authority. The Nonprofit Services Advisory Committee provides recommendations
                   to the City Council on the Public Service Contract and Emergent Community Needs Grant
                   programs, which are established in the City’s Budget Policies & Objectives. The Committee’s
                   duties include:
                   1. Evaluating applications;
                   2. Interviewing applicants; and
                   3. Making award recommendations to the City Council.
                B. Organization.
                   1. The Nonprofit Services Advisory Committee will consist of not less than five members and
                       not more than seven members.
                   2. All members must live, work, volunteer, own property, or own a business within Park City
                       municipal boundaries.
                   3. A majority of members must have their primary residence within Park City municipal
                       boundaries.
                   4. There should be priority for members who have experience with nonprofit organizations or
                       who have experience delivering or accessing nonprofit services.
                C. Conflict of Interest. Members may not be employed by or serve on the board of a nonprofit
                   organization that applies for or is likely to apply for grant funding through PCMC.

            2-8-20 Police Complaint Review Committee
                A. Purpose and Authority. The purpose of the Police Complaint Review Committee is to act in the
                   capacity of an advisory body, which will review proposed complaint dispositions of complaints



                                                             Ex. A | pg. 5
Docusign Envelope ID: E2F4CE50-A64C-4D8C-BE24-6566807B3EDB


            Exhibit A


                     filed against police personnel and/or police procedure, if formally requested, and to provide
                     recommendations to the Chief of Police on those complaints reviewed.
                B.   Organization.
                     1. The Police Complaint Review Committee will consist of five eligible community members
                          and one appointed City staff member as the City Manager’s designee. An attorney from the
                          City Attorney’s Office will be assigned to act as a legal liaison to the Committee by the City
                          Attorney. The Chief of Police shall be an ex officio member and shall provide all necessary
                          staff support and information to the Committee. The City Council may appoint a Council
                          Liaison.
                     2. The City Manager’s appointed designee shall act as the Chairperson for the Committee and
                          in the absence of the Chairperson, the Chairperson pro-tem shall perform the duties of the
                          Chairperson. The Chairperson shall be a non-voting member. The Chairperson pro-tem shall
                          be elected by a majority vote of the members of the Committee at the first meeting of the
                          Committee each calendar year.
                     3. Members of the Committee shall perform their services on the Committee without pay or
                          other compensation, except for payment of reimbursement of expenses actually and
                          reasonably incurred and as approved by the Chief of Police. Community members shall be
                          deemed volunteers as defined in Title 67, Chapter 20, of the Utah Code, as amended, or any
                          successor statute. Members shall be immune from any liability with respect to any decision
                          or action taken in the performance of their duties and responsibilities on the Committee as
                          provided by Title 63G, Chapter 8, of the Utah Code, as amended, or any successor statute.
                C.   Eligibility for Membership. To be eligible for appointment to the Committee, a person shall be
                     at least 21 years of age. No person may have any felony convictions, or misdemeanor
                     convictions where a dishonest act or false statement is an element of the offense. If a
                     Committee member, during his or her term, is formally charged with such an offense, the
                     Committee member shall immediately notify the Chief of Police of such charge(s). Post-
                     appointment convictions shall be a basis for removal.
                D.   Members' Ethics. In addition to being bound by Title 3 of the Park City Code, if a conflict of
                     interest arises with respect to a particular complaint review, the Committee member(s) shall
                     recuse themself from that review. Any violation of this provision or the provisions incorporated
                     herein by reference shall be grounds for removal from the Committee.
                E.   Training. Each member must receive training specified by the Chief of Police, regarding police
                     policy, practice, procedure, and the duties of the Committee. Training may include attendance
                     at police training classes and participation in ride-a-longs during police shifts.
                F.   Community Requested Review of Proposed Complaint Disposition. The Police Department will
                     establish and publicize the processes by which a proposed complaint disposition can be
                     reviewed by the Committee.
                G.   Complaint Review Process.
                     1. When a review is requested, the Chief of Police, acting as the department liaison, shall
                          supply all the sitting Committee members with all pertinent documents and investigative
                          materials related to the original complaint and investigation. Any information furnished by
                          the complainant shall be forwarded to the Committee.
                     2. The Committee shall meet within a reasonable time after receiving a request for review.
                     3. After the review meeting, the Committee shall reach a conclusion and provide an advisory
                          recommendation. Committee advisory recommendations may include:
                          i. further investigative action or review by the Chief of Police to clarify and/or to expand
                               the investigation or review;
                          ii. review of department policy or procedure for adjustment, revision, or modification; or


                                                             Ex. A | pg. 6
Docusign Envelope ID: E2F4CE50-A64C-4D8C-BE24-6566807B3EDB


            Exhibit A


                       iii. both.
                   4. Within 30 calendar days after receiving the Committee's report, the Chief of Police shall
                       ensure that the individual requesting the review and the original complainant, if they are
                       not the same person, are notified of the intended actions of the Chief of Police via a 'Letter
                       of Final Disposition.' The reports containing the Committee's conclusions and
                       recommendations will not be disclosed to the original complainant, the person requesting
                       the review, or any other member of the public, except under Title 63G of the Utah Code.
                   5. A copy of the Committee's conclusion(s) and recommendation(s) will be forwarded to City
                       Council members.
                   6. All Committee documents will be maintained in the Administrative Offices of the Chief of
                       Police in a secured location in accordance with Record Retention Schedules.
                H. Cooperation and Coordination. The Chief of Police shall provide complete and prompt
                   cooperation to the Committee members in the discharge of its duties.
                I. Committee Actions. The recommendations of the Committee shall not be deemed to bind the
                   Chief of Police or the City Manager in their final disposition. Nothing in this document shall be
                   construed to be a delegation of the powers of the Chief of Police, City Manager, or the Mayor
                   and City Council.
                J. Committee Policy and Procedures Review. Policy and procedures for the Committee will be
                   reviewed for changes and updates on an annual basis. This review will be open to the public.

            2-8-21 Public Art Advisory Board
                A. Purpose and Authority. The Public Art Advisory Board will create and propose updates for a
                   public art policy and plan, make recommendations to the City Council regarding public art
                   placement and expenditures, and establish future funding opportunities for public art.
                B. Organization. The Public Art Advisory Board will consist of eight members.
                C. Policy. The Public Art Advisory Board will be governed by a policy that will be adopted by
                   Council.

            2-8-22 Recreation Advisory Board
                A. Purpose and Authority. The Recreation Advisory Board’s purpose and duties are as follows:
                   1. To advise the City Council and staff on parks and recreation policy as requested by the City
                       Council.
                   2. To support and promote the policies and programs of the Recreation Department.
                   3. To advise and support staff on staff-recommended budget priorities concerning parks and
                       recreation projects and programs.
                   4. To serve as a liaison between the community and public agencies on parks and recreation
                       issues within Park City.
                   5. To stimulate and initiate community involvement and support for City Council annual and
                       long-term goals and priorities, and all parks, recreation and beautification projects and
                       programs.
                B. Organization. The Recreation Advisory Board will consist of between five and nine members,
                   and one additional representative from the City Council who is a non-voting member. Members
                   shall be residents of Park City and shall serve without compensation.

            2-8-23 Special Event Advisory Committee
                A. Purpose and Authority. The Special Event Advisory Committee will advise and make
                   recommendations to City Council regarding special events in Park City.



                                                             Ex. A | pg. 7
Docusign Envelope ID: E2F4CE50-A64C-4D8C-BE24-6566807B3EDB


            Exhibit A


                B. Organization. The Special Event Advisory Committee will consist of seven members. Members
                   shall be residents of Park City and should represent a cross section of various neighborhood
                   areas throughout Park City. Members may be appointed when City Council determines a need
                   exists. The committee will disband when there is not a clear need.




                                                             Ex. A | pg. 8
