Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




             Ordinance No. 2024-20

                       AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 13, CHAPTER 4, REGULATION AND
                       ENFORCEMENT OF STORMWATER DISCHARGES ASSOCIATED WITH
                                       CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITIES

             WHEREAS, the City has previously been designated as an MS4 by the State and must
             meet the State permit and Code requirements related to this designation; and

             WHEREAS, during the 2024 legislative session HB507 was adopted, making changes
             to MS4 management in the State; and

             WHEREAS, the City Council of Park City, Utah desires to adopt changes to its
             municipal code to align that code with State law.

             BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH, THAT:

             Title 13, Chapter 4 of the Municipal Code of Park City is hereby amended as shown in
             Exhibits A. This Ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

             PASSED AND ADOPTED this 12th day of December 2024.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                             ____
                                                             Mayor Nann Worel
             Attest:



             Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder



             Approved as to form:



             City Attorney’s Office
Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




             13-4 Regulation And Enforcement Of Stormwater Discharges Associated With Construction
             Activities

             13-4-1 Purpose
             13-4-2 Definitions
             13-4-3 Prohibition On Unpermitted Land Disturbance
             13-4-4 Land DisturbanceWork Permit
             13-4-5 Proper Operation And Maintenance
             13-4-6 Inspection And Entry
             13-4-7 Revocation Or Suspension Of Land DisturbanceWork Permit
             13-4-8 Penalties
             13-4-9 Compliance With Federal And State Law
             13-4-10 Perimeter Control Exemptions
             13-4-11 Severability
             13-4-12 Effective Date


             13-4-1 Purpose

             The purpose of this Chapter is to prevent the discharge by storm water runoff of sediment and other
             pollutants from land disturbance activities such as excavating, grading, filling, or grubbing. These
             activities are a major source of pollution to waterways and storm drain systems located within Park
             City and the surrounding area. Storm water runoff carries sediment from sites where these
             activities occur into nearby waterways, lakes, canals, irrigation systems, and storm drain systems.
             Such sediment clogs storm drain systems, pollutes the water in the streams and lakes, and
             damages wildlife habitat and water quality.

             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020

             13-4-2 Definitions

             For the purpose of this Chapter, the definitions listed hereunder shall be construed as specified in
             this section.

                 1. ALTERNATIVE BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). BMPs that do not conform to BMP
                    Standards identified by the City Engineer. The City Engineer may, in his discretion, approve a
                    SWPPP containing alternative BMPs if the alternative BMPs will satisfy the objectives of this
                    Chapter.

                 1. APPLICANT. The person that applies for a construction storm water permit to conduct or
                    propose to conduct a use of land for a construction site.

                 2. APPLICATION. An Application for a Utah Department of Environmental Quality Construction
                    General Permit or a Common Plan Permit which includes a construction storm water
                    permit.
Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




                 2.3.        BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
                     practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices to prevent or reduce
                     the pollution of waters of the City. BMPs also include treatment requirements, operating
                     procedures, and practices to control site runoff, off-site vehicular tracking of Pollutants,
                     spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or drainage from raw material storage.

                 3.4.        BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES STANDARDS (BMP Standards). In order to provide
                     uniform BMPs and to facilitate the issuance of Land DisturbanceWork Permits, the City
                     Engineer may identify for certain types of land Disturbance Activitieshas identified certain
                     sets of BMPs that most effectively or practicably mitigate the discharge of pollutants due to
                     storm water. These BMP Standards may be included in any document that is maintained by
                     the City Engineer and relates to engineering standards to facilitate the issuance of Land
                     Disturbance Permits for certain types of Work Permits. Work Permit.

                 4.5.        COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION. The initial disturbance of soils associated
                     with clearing, Grubbing, Grading or Excavating activities or other construction activities,
                     excluding activities necessary to install erosion Control MeasuresBMPs under a Land
                     DisturbanceWork Permit.

                 5. COMMON PLAN PERMIT. A permit issued through the Utah State Department of
                    Environment Quality. This permit may be commonly referred to as a Notice of Intent or NOI.

                 6. CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PERMIT. A Permit issued through the Utah State Department of
                    Environment Quality. This permit may be commonly referred to as a Notice of Intent or NOI.

                 7.6.       CONTROL MEASURE. Any Best Management Practice or otherAny method used to
                     prevent or reduce the discharge of Pollutants.

                 7. ELECTRONIC SITE INSPECTION. Geo-located and time-stamped photos taken, evaluated,
                    and submitted electronically by the applicant to the City.

                 8. EXCAVATION. The mechanical removal of earth material.

                 9. FILL. A deposit of earth material placed by artificial means.

                 10. FINAL STABILIZATION. A point in time at which all Land Disturbance Activities at the site
                     have been completed, and a uniform (e.g. evenly distributed, without large bare areas)
                     perennial vegetative cover with a density of 70% of the native background vegetative cover
                     for the area has been established on all unpaved areas and areas not covered by permanent
                     structures, or equivalent permanent stabilization measures (such as the use of rip rap,
                     gabions, or geotextiles) have been employed. In some parts of the City, background native
                     vegetation will cover less than 100% of the ground (e.g. arid areas). Establishing at least
                     70% of the natural cover of native vegetation meets the vegetative cover criteria for final
                     stabilization. For example, if the native vegetation covers 50% of the ground, 70% of 50%
                     would require 35% cover for final stabilization.

                 11. GRADING. “Grading” as used in this Chapter is defined in Section 15-15-1.

                 12. GRUBBING. “Grubbing” as used in this Chapter is defined in Section 15-15-1.
Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




                 13. LAND DISTURBANCE ACTIVITY. Any soil disturbances of an acre or more, including less than
                     an acre if it is part of a common plan of development or sale, where the disturbance is
                     caused by construction activity including Excavation, Grading, placement of Fill, clearing or
                     Grubbing.

                 14.1.      LAND DISTURBANCE PERMIT. A permit issued by the City Engineer authorizing the
                     permittee to engage in specific Land Disturbance Activities. The permit may require the
                     implementation of a SWPPP or any other conditions to mitigate the discharge of Pollutants.

                 15. NOTICE OF INTENT (NOI). A Construction General Permit or Common Plan Permit.

                 16.14.      PERSON. Any individual, corporation, partnership, association, public utility,
                     company or body politic, including Park City Municipal Corporation and any agency of the
                     State of Utah and the United States Government.

                 17.15.      POLLUTANT. Dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage,
                     sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials,
                     heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and
                     agricultural waste discharged into water.

                 18.16.    SITE. Any lot or parcel of land or contiguous combination thereof, under the same
                     ownership, where a Land Disturbance Activity is performed or permitted.

                 19.17.     STORM WATER. Storm water runoff, snow melt runoff, and surface runoff or
                     drainage.

                 18. STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). A plan for the mitigation of
                     discharge of Pollutants from a Site, conforming to BMP Standards or identifying Alternative
                     BMPs.. At a minimum, the SWPPP shall have: a drawing of the location of the intended Land
                     Disturbance Activity; the pertinent dimensions thereof; and the layout, typical sections, and
                     details of the Control MeasuresBMPs to be used.

                 19. WORK PERMIT. A permit issued by the Planning, Engineering or Building Departments
                     authorizing the Applicant to engage in specific Land Disturbance Activities. The permit may
                     require the implementation of a SWPPP or any other conditions to mitigate the discharge of
                     Pollutants.



             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020

             13-4-3 Prohibition Onon Unpermitted Land Disturbance

                 1. General Prohibition on Unpermitted Land Disturbance Activities. No Person shall make or
                    cause to occur any Land Disturbance Activity except in compliance with a Land
                    DisturbanceWork Permit issued under Section 13-4-4.

                 2. Emergency Conditions. An emergency Land Disturbance Activity may be made without a
                    Land DisturbanceWork Permit if the reason for the excavation or grading or placement fill is
Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




                     to prevent imminent loss of life or damage to property. In such emergency situations, the
                     Person making the Land Disturbance Activity shall contact the City Engineer’s Office to
                     secure a Land DisturbanceWork Permit at the earliest possible time, but in no case later
                     than the first working day following the emergency work. None of the provisions of this
                     Chapter are waived for emergency situations except for the prior permit requirement.

                 3. Exemptions. The following activities are exempt from the requirements of this Chapter:

                         1. actions by a public agency or utility, Park City, or other governmental agency to
                            remove or alleviate an emergency condition, restore utility service, or reopen to
                            traffic a public thoroughfare;

                         2. actions by any Person if the City determines and documents in writing that the
                            actions are necessary to remove or alleviate an emergency condition, restore utility
                            service, or reopen to traffic a public thoroughfare; or

                         3. landscape maintenance activities on fully developed property; or

                         4.3.        bona fide agricultural and farming operations which constitute the principle
                             use of any parcel or tract of ground located in the City and which meet the
                             requirements of the zoning for that portion of the City in which the operation is
                             located.

             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020

             13-4-4 Land DisturbanceWork Permit

                 1. Requirements

                         1. The City Engineer may issue a Land DisturbanceWork Permit, in a form to be
                            determined by the City Engineer, for the discharge of Pollutants associated with
                            Land Disturbance Activities upon condition that such discharge will meet either: (a)
                            any Best Management Practices Standards (BMP Standards) identified by the City
                            Engineer, or (b) such conditions as the City Engineer determines are necessary to
                            fulfill the requirements of this Chapter. A Land DisturbanceWork Permit shall be
                            required for any project that requires a permit under any other ordinance,
                            development code, or building permit issued by Park City that includes any Land
                            Disturbance Activity. Where required by state law, City permits shall require the
                            submission of a Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit and
                            NOIApplication from the State of Utah Division of Water Quality.

                         2. The permit holder shall comply with all provisions of the required permits at all
                            times.

                 2. Work Permit Applications Applications. Work Permit applications shall be made using
                    permit forms published by the City Engineer and completed by the owner of the property on
                    which the work is being done. Applications shall be made, in the case of work within a
                    public right-of-way, by the firm, public utility, public agency or corporation actually doing
Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




                     the work, or in the case of work within a private road or private road right-of-way, by the
                     owner of the road or association responsible for the maintenance of the road.. Applications
                     for all permits shall be made to the City Engineer’s office and state the purpose therefore;
                     the person, firm, public utility, or corporation doingperforming the actual work; and the
                     name of the person, firm, public utility, or corporation for whom or by which the work is
                     being done. The application shall contain:

                         1. an agreement that the applicantApplicant will comply with all ordinances and laws
                            of Park City, the State of Utah, and the Federal Government relating to the work to be
                            done;

                         2. an agreement that the applicantApplicant shall indemnify the City for any loss,
                            liability, or damage that may result from or because of the making, placement,
                            existence, or manner of guarding or constructing any such Land Disturbance
                            Activity; and

                         3. eitherif applicable:

                                  1. a copy of the applicant’sApplicant’s Construction General Permit or
                                     Common Plan Permit, if applicable, orand

                                  2. a Storm Water Pollution Prevention Plan (SWPPP).

                 3. Fees. The City Council may adopt a review and inspection fee to provide for the
                    requirements of this Chapter. Such fee, if adopted, shall accompany each application for a
                    permit.

                 4. Review and Approval of Applications.

                         1. The City Engineer or histheir designee will review each application for a Land
                            DisturbanceWork Permit to determine its conformance with the provisions of this
                            Chapter. The City Engineer may, in his discretion, approve a SWPPP containing
                            Alternative BMPs. Within fifteen (15)14 days after receiving ana complete
                            application, the City Engineer shall provide one of the following responses in writing:

                                  1. Approval of the permit application and issuance of the Land
                                     DisturbanceWork Permit;

                                  2. Approval of the permit application, subject to such reasonable conditions as
                                     may be necessary to substantially secure the objectives of this Chapter, and
                                     issuance of the Land DisturbanceWork Permit subject to these conditions;
                                     or

                                  3. Denial of the permit application, indicating the reason(s) for the denial.

                         2. If the City Engineer has granted conditional approval of the permit, the
                            applicantApplicant shall submit a revised plan that conforms to the conditions
                            established by the City Engineer. However, the applicantApplicant shall be allowed
                            to proceed with his land disturbance activitiestheir Land Disturbance Activities so
                            long as those activities conform to the conditions established by the City Engineer.
Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




                         3. No development plans will be released until the Land Disturbance Work Permit has
                            been approved and the applicantApplicant has paid in full all plan review and
                            inspection fees.

                 5. Content of Permit. The Land DisturbanceWork Permit shall contain all elements required
                    under the SWPPP or the most current Construction General Permit or Common Plan Permit,
                    whichever is applicable to the site. The Land Disturbance Permit may require more than the
                    minimum control requirements specified within the SWPPP or Construction General Permit
                    or Common Plan Permit if hydrologic, geologic, or topographic conditions warrant, or if
                    unique flooding, stream channel erosion, or water quality problems exist upstream or
                    downstream from a proposed project.

                 6. Appeals An applicant for a Land Disturbance Permit whose application has been denied or
                    approved with conditions may appeal the denied or imposed conditions in the same
                    manner as other impact fees, pursuant to Section 11-13-5.

             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020

             13-4-5 Proper Operation Andand Maintenance

                 1. Installation of Control MeasuresBMPs. The permitteeApplicant shall install any Control
                    MeasuresBMPs required by the Land DisturbanceWork Permit before commencing any
                    construction activities on the site to which the Land DisturbanceWork Permit applies, or at
                    such time as indicated on the Land DisturbanceWork Permit. The Control MeasuresBMPs
                    shall be properly installed and maintained in accordance with the manufacturer’s
                    specifications and good engineering practices. Prior to commencing other construction
                    activities, the permitteeApplicant shall contact the Park City Building Department to
                    schedule an inspection of the installed Control MeasuresBMPs. This inspection may be
                    performed as part of a Limits of Disturbance inspection under Sections 15-7.3-2(J), 15-7.3-
                    3(H), or 11-15-4(K), if any such inspection is required for the same project.

                 2. Maintenance of Control MeasuresBMPs. The permitteeApplicant shall maintain such
                    Control MeasuresBMPs on the site in good condition until the disturbed areas have
                    achieved Final Stabilization, and the measures are no longer necessary to prevent or
                    minimize, to the maximum extent practicable, the discharge of sediment, debris, and other
                    Pollutants from the site by Storm Water runoff or vehicular tracking. Once any temporary
                    Control MeasuresBMPs have been deemed no longer necessary, or once the site is finally
                    stabilized, the temporary Control MeasuresBMPs shall be removed from the site in a timely
                    manner.

                 3. Removal of Control MeasuresBMPs. Upon completion of Land Disturbance Activities under
                    the Land DisturbanceWork Permit, the ownerApplicant shall request an inspection from the
                    City Engineer.City’s SWPPP Inspector. Once the City inspector deems the site stabilized,
                    the ownerApplicant shall remove in a timely manner any temporary Control MeasuresBMPs.

             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020
Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




             13-4-6 Inspection Andand Entry

                 1. The permitteeThe Applicant shall provide Electronic Site Inspection photos for monthly
                    oversight inspections conducted by the City until Final Stabilization is reached. The
                    submission must include a photo of each BMP and the general site. The Applicant must also
                    identify any BMP which has failed as well as the corrective action which will be taken. If all
                    photos are not included in the submission, the Applicant shall allow authorized employees
                    and representatives of Park City, State of Utah Division of Water Quality, and the United
                    States Environmental Protection Agency to enter the site for inspection.

                 1.2.         If the Applicant documents a reason for opting out of Electronic Site Inspections the
                     City will conduct onsite inspections. This will be documented during the pre-construction
                     meeting. The Applicant shall allow authorized employees and representatives of Park City,
                     State of Utah Division of Water Quality, and the United States Environmental Protection
                     Agency to enter the site to which the Land DisturbanceWork Permit applies and to inspect
                     the temporary BMP and permanent Control Measures installed and maintained by the
                     permittee or property owner.Applicant. Such entry and inspection may be made at any time
                     during or a reasonable time after construction. If permanent Control Measures are required,
                     such entry and inspection may be made in perpetuity.

                 2.3.         Inspections During Construction

                         1. For construction sites requiring a Construction General Permit or Common Plan
                            Permit, inspection frequency and maintenance and repair consistent with BMPs are
                            as defined in such permit. Sites deemed high priority by the City shall also be
                            inspected by the ownerApplicant after every rainfall event in accordance with the
                            permit.

                         2. AllApplicants at all other construction sites shall at a minimum conduct a bi-weekly
                            visual inspection of BMPs to ensure they are in good condition. Disturbed areas and
                            areas used for storage of materials exposed to precipitation shall be inspected for
                            evidence of, or the potential for, pollutants entering a drainage system.

                         3. Repair to BMPs shall be made in accordance with the Land DisturbanceWork Permit
                            or as noted in the inspection report, whichever is more stringent.

             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020

             13-4-7 Revocation Or Suspension Of Land DisturbanceViolations of Work Permit



                 1. A Work Permit is subject to all applicable regulations and procedures described in Title 11
                    of the Park City Municipal Code with respect to construction regulations, processes, and
                    the general provisions of the City’s Administrative Code Enforcement (ACE) program.
Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




                 1.2.         Reasons for Revocation or Suspension.Violations. The City Engineer or his, their
                     designee, or a Code Enforcement Official may revoke or suspend a Land Disturbanceissue
                     a violation on a Work Permit upon the occurrence of any of the following:

                         1. failure of the permitteeApplicant to comply with any condition of the Land
                            DisturbanceWork Permit;

                         2. failure of the permitteeApplicant to comply with any provision of this Chapter or any
                            other applicable law, ordinance, rule or regulation; or

                         3. a determination by the City Engineer that the Control MeasuresBMPs implemented
                            by the permitteeApplicant pursuant to the Land DisturbanceWork Permit are
                            inadequate to prevent or minimize, to the maximum extent practicable, the
                            discharge of sediment, debris or other Pollutants from the construction site by
                            Storm Water runoff or vehicular tracking.
                            Revocation or suspension of a Land Disturbance Permit shall suspend all related
                            work on the subject property(ies).



                 3. Notice. Before revoking or suspendingissuing a Land Disturbanceviolation of a Work Permit
                    under this Chapter, Park City shall mailprovide the permitteeApplicant written notice of
                    non-compliance or personally serve notice to the person responsible for maintaining the
                    erosion control and sediment control measures. The notification process is as follows:

                         4.1.        The notice shall state the nature and location of the non-compliance and
                             shall specify what action is required for the permitteeApplicant to avoid revocation
                             or suspension ofan order to stop construction and the permitdeadline to correct the
                             issue, which in the absence of exceptional circumstances shall not be less than 71
                             working daysday or more than 105 working days. The notice shall be sent by
                             certified mail to the address listed for the permitteeApplicant on the
                             applicationApplication or delivered in person to the responsible partyApplicant on
                             site.

                 2. Exceptional Circumstances. For the purposes of this Chapter, exceptional circumstances
                    include, but are not limited to, situations which involve risk of injury to persons, damage to
                    storm drain facilities, imminent release of Pollutants to waterways, or damage to other
                    property. Park City may take any action deemed necessary to alleviate any such exceptional
                    circumstances defined above and may bill the permittee, property owner, developer, or
                    contractor responsible for creating the exceptional circumstances for the cost of alleviating
                    said circumstance.

                 3. Stop Work Order. A stop work order on all construction activity on the site may be issued
                    upon the discovery of any condition that the City Engineer or his appointed designee
                    determines is in violation of any portion of the Land Disturbance Permit. No construction
                    activity may be commenced or continued on any site for which a permit has been revoked
                    or suspended and a stop work order issued until the permit has been reinstated or reissued.
Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




                 4. Reinstatement. A Land Disturbance Permit may be reinstated or reissued upon review and
                    approval of a written description of the permittee’s proposed actions to bring the Control
                    Measures into compliance with all provisions of this Chapter, or upon submission, review,
                    and approval of a revised SWPPP.

                                  1. The City may perform an inspection to verify that the violation is corrected.

                         2. If an Applicant does not correct the violation described within the deadline, the City
                            will provide notice, in writing, that the violation has not been corrected and issue a
                            warning that construction activity may be stopped if the violation is not corrected
                            within no less than another 24-hour period.

                                  1. The City may perform another inspection to verify that the violation is
                                     corrected.

                         3. If an Applicant does not correct the violation described within the deadline, the City
                            will provide notice, in writing, that the violation has not been corrected. The City
                            may order the Applicant to stop construction activity until the City performs an
                            inspection to verify that the violation is corrected or the Applicant demonstrates
                            that the violation is corrected through an Electronic Site Inspection.

                 4. The City may not impose the process described later than 30 days after the day on which
                    the City provided the required preceding notice of violation or continuing violation.

                 5. The City may issue an order to stop construction earlier than described if the City clearly
                    documents an immediate threat to water quality.

                 6. The City may recoup the costs incurred to correct a violation if the Applicant refuses to
                    correct after the enforcement process described has been exhausted if the City, at the time
                    of clean up, determines a significant harm to water quality or the storm water system is
                    imminent determined the course of action was necessary to resolve.

             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020

             13-4-8 Penalties

                 1. Criminal Penalties. Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this Chapter shall be
                    guilty of a Class B misdemeanor and on conviction therefore shall be punished by fine or by
                    imprisonment for not more than six months or by both fine and imprisonment.

                 2.1.       Continuing Offenses Deemed Daily Violation. In all instances where the violation of
                     this Chapter is a continuing violation, a separate offense shall be deemed committed on
                     each day during or on which the violation occurs or continues.

                 3.2.       Civil Penalties. In addition to criminal actions, Park City may bring for violations of
                     this Chapter civil actions including injunctions, mandamus, abatement, civil damages, and
                     any other remedies provided by law.
Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




                 4.3.        Additional Penalties Provided by State Law and Federal Law. In addition to
                     municipal penalties, any person violating any provisions of this Chapter may be subject to
                     federal and state penalties, including but not limited to Utah Code § 19-5-115.

                 5. Control Measures Undertaken by Park City. If a permittee fails to comply with the Land
                    Disturbance Permit, Park City shall, in its discretion, have the right to have Control
                    Measures installed and maintained by City personnel or to hire a private contractor to
                    perform such work at the expense of the permittee, property owner, developer or contractor
                    responsible for such measures. The City may assess said expenses against a bond posted
                    by the permittee.

             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020

             13-4-9 Compliance Withwith Federal Andand State Law

             Nothing contained in this Chapter is intended to relieve any Person from any obligation to comply
             with applicable federal and/or state laws and any other regulations pertaining to clean water and/or
             storm water runoff and erosion control.

             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020

             13-4-10 Perimeter Control Exemptions

                 1. Purpose. Exemptions for silt fence or other perimeter controls are for construction sites
                    where such controls may be ineffectual, excessive, and/or detrimental to nearby water
                    resources and other natural resources.

                 2. Definition. Certain construction sites may be exempt from installing silt fences or other
                    temporary perimeter controls if the site meets the following criteria.

                 3. Criteria. All exemptions must be approved by the Park City Engineer or their designee and
                    are limited to the following:

                         1. projects where:

                                  1. total disturbance is less than 1 acre;

                                  2. a 50 foot wide vegetated buffer exists down gradient from the disturbed
                                     portion(s) of the site;

                                  3. a 100 foot wide vegetated buffer exists down gradient between the disturbed
                                     potions(s) of the site and any live stream or existing drainage way;

                                  4. the site and vegetated buffer have less than 5% slope (slope must be
                                     documented);

                                  5. and the vegetated buffer has at least 70% ground cover;
Docusign Envelope ID: 0CE32D58-5F02-4C34-86AE-9336046FE591




                         2. linear construction projects such as pipelines or utility work that do not discharge to
                            waterways; or

                         3. Sites bound by natural or man-made features that would prohibit discharge from the
                            Site.

             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020

             13-4-11 Severability

             Should any section, paragraph, sentence, clause, or phrase of this Chapter be declared
             unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, the remainder of this Chapter shall not be affected
             thereby.

             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020

             13-4-12 Effective Date

             This Chapter shall become effective after publication of such in accordance with applicable state
             law.

             HISTORY
             Adopted by Ord. 2024-20 on 12/12/2024Adopted by Ord. 2020-44 on 9/17/2020
