Docusign Envelope ID: A0285115-C64A-482E-B40C-05AB914832C1




            Ordinance No. 2025-02
             AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2-8-19, NONPROFIT SERVICES ADVISORY
                            COMMITTEE, OF THE PARK CITY CODE

            WHEREAS, the Nonprofit Services Advisory Committee was established by Council
            resolution on August 22, 2024, to provide recommendations to the City Council on the
            Public Service Contract and Emergent Community Needs Grant programs.
            WHEREAS, Committee members are tasked with evaluating and interviewing nonprofit
            applications to make recommendations to the Council on City contracts with nonprofit
            organizations.
            WHEREAS, it is imperative that the Committee performs its duties with the highest
            degree of public trust and transparency.
            BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH, THAT:
            Section 2-8-19 of the Park City Code is amended and adopted to read as outlined in
            Exhibit A. This Ordinance shall become effective upon publication.
            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 27th day of February, 2025.
                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                             ____
                                                             Mayor Nann Worel
            Attest:



            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder


            Approved as to form:



            City Attorney’s Office
Docusign Envelope ID: A0285115-C64A-482E-B40C-05AB914832C1




            Exhibit A

            2-8-19 Nonproﬁt Services Advisory Committee (Redlined Changes)

            A. Purpose and Authority. The Nonproﬁt Services Advisory Committee provides
               recommendations to the City Council on the Public Service Contract and Emergent Community
               Needs Grant programs, which are established in the City’s Budget Policies & Objectives. The
               Committee’s duties include:

                     1. Evaluating applications;

                     2. Interviewing applicants; and

                     3. Making award recommendations to the City Council.

            B. Organization.

                     1. The Nonproﬁt Services Advisory Committee will consist of not less than ﬁve members
                        and not more than seven members.

                     2. All members must live, work, volunteer, own property, or own a business within Park
                        City municipal boundaries.

                     3. A majority of members must have their primary residence within Park City municipal
                        boundaries.

                     4. There should be priority for members who have experience with nonproﬁt organizations
                        or who have experience delivering or accessing nonproﬁt services.

                     5. Elected officials may not serve on the Nonproﬁt Services Advisory Committee. For the
                        purposes of this Section, “elected official” means each person elected to a federal
                        office, state office, county office, municipal office, school board or school district
                        office, special district office, or special service district office, or a person appointed to
                        ﬁll a vacancy in any of those offices. If a member becomes an elected official while
                        serving on the Committee, they will be automatically removed from the Committee.

                     6. Members may not be employed by or serve on the board of a nonproﬁt organization that
                        applies for or is likely to apply for grant funding through PCMC.

            C. Conﬂict of Interest. Members may not be employed by or serve on the board of a nonproﬁt
               organization that applies for or is likely to apply for grant funding through PCMC. Disclosure
               and Recusal Requirements for Committee Members. In addition to abiding by the disclosure
               and recusal requirements found in state code and Title 3 of the Park City Code, Committee
               members must recuse from evaluating and discussing any application for funding from a
               nonproﬁt organization where the Committee members have any business dealings with the
               nonproﬁt organization currently or in the past 24 months.
