Docusign Envelope ID: 68FCDFFC-7BB6-4E92-8643-3C66B1CDC0AF




            Ordinance No. 2025-04
            AN ORDINANCE AMENDING SECTION 2-8-21, PUBLIC ART ADVISORY BOARD,
            OF THE PARK CITY CODE

            WHEREAS, the Public Art Advisory Board was established by Council in 1999, to
            provide recommendations to the City Council on Public Art programs, initiatives and
            purchases.
            WHEREAS, Board members are tasked with evaluating artist proposals to make
            recommendations to the Council on City public art projects.
            WHEREAS, the City Council finds that providing more uniform rules for governance of
            the Public Art Advisory Board with the City’s other boards and commissions will aid in
            transparency and administration.
            BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH, THAT:
            Section 2-8-21 of the Park City Code is amended and adopted to read as outlined in
            Exhibit A. This Ordinance supersedes Resolution 23-2024, all other previously adopted
            resolutions establishing policies for the Public Art Advisory Board, and any other
            conflicting provisions of previously adopted ordinances and resolutions. This Ordinance
            shall become effective upon publication. This Ordinance shall become effective upon
            publication.
            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 20th day of March, 2025.
                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION



                                                             Mayor Nann Worel
            Attest:



            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder

            Approved as to form:



            City Attorney’s Office
Docusign Envelope ID: 68FCDFFC-7BB6-4E92-8643-3C66B1CDC0AF




            PROPOSED CODE AMENDMENTS

            2-8-21 Public Art Advisory Board

                A. Purpose and Authority. The Public Art Advisory Board will create and propose updates for a
                   public art policy and plan, make recommendations to the City Council regarding public art
                   placement and expenditures, and establish future funding opportunities for public art.

                    1. The Public Art Advisory Board will create a public art policy and plan, make
                       recommendations to the City Council regarding strategic planning, acquisition,
                       expenditures, funding and budgetary requests, project identiﬁcation, donations,
                       proposals or qualiﬁcations, maintenance, repair, re-siting or deaccessioning of public
                       art, and establish future funding opportunities for public art.

                    2. The City Council ﬁnalizes all decisions regarding the acquisition and deaccessioning of
                       public art, regardless of funding amount. The Public Art Advisory Board can make
                       decisions about resiting minor works, but decisions regarding resiting major works must
                       be approved by the City Council.

                B. Organization.The Public Art Advisory Board will consist of eight members.

                    1. The Public Art Advisory Board will consist of between ﬁve and nine members. The City
                       Council may appoint a Council Liaison.

                    2. All members must live within Park City municipal boundaries.



                C. Policy. The Public Art Advisory Board will be governed by a policy that will be adopted by
                   Council. Rules and Regulations.

                    1. The Board will follow the City’s Procurement Rules and processes that generally foster
                       broad-based competition in procuring public art.

                    2. A maintenance schedule shall accompany each piece as it is accepted into the
                       collection. The Public Art Advisory Board shall review the Park City public art collection
                       on an ongoing basis or as needed for general maintenance and repairs.

                    3. If the structural integrity of an artwork is critically damaged or risks causing harm, the
                       City Manager may authorize its immediate removal and placement in storage. The
                       Public Art Advisory Board will make a recommendation on the repairing, resiting, or
                       deaccessioning within a reasonable time following the removal.
