Docusign Envelope ID: 7BBE9216-3D9C-4D1E-8ADF-7D42743CF7FE




            ORDINANCE 2025-20

            AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 2, CHAPTER 4, SECTION 11 OF THE PARK
            CITY CODE, RELATED TO THE RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITY OF THE
            CITY ENGINEER

            WHEREAS, in order to promote the efficient and beneficial use of the City’s rights-of-
            way and public thoroughfares, City Council finds the City Engineer should have
            delegated authority over certain regulation of the rights-of-way and public thoroughfares;
            and

            WHEREAS, in order to promote the efficient and beneficial use of the City’s rights-of-
            way and public thoroughfares, the City Council finds the City Engineer should be
            empowered to permit certain minor private improvements within the City right-of-way
            and public thoroughfares; and

            WHEREAS, the City Council finds good cause for amending the code to further clarify
            the City Engineer’s responsibilities and authority;

            NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Park City, Utah:

            Section 1. Section amended. Title 2, Chapter 4, Section 11 of the Park City Code is
            hereby amended to read:

                     2-4-11 City Engineer
                     There is hereby created and established the office of City Engineer for the
                     purpose of providing the necessary engineering services required by the City.
                     The City Engineer shall be responsible for coordinating, reviewing, supervising,
                     and accepting construction work in rights-of-way and public thoroughfares. The
                     City Engineer may permit these minor private improvements, which do not
                     negatively impact the intended use of rights-of-way or public thoroughfares:
                     mailboxes, driveways, sidewalks, radiant heating, landscaping, signage and
                     awnings otherwise in conformance with this Code, improvements required to
                     promote life safety, provide property access, ensure slope stability, drainage
                     protection, or maintenance, Improvements that are designated Historic in
                     accordance with procedures contained in Land Management Code Chapter 15-
                     11, and minor deviations from previously approved encroachments. The City
                     Engineer shall be appointed by the City Manager and shall be an employee of
                     the City. The City Engineer shall be appointed on the basis of administrative and
                     technical qualifications with special reference to actual experience or knowledge
                     of the functions and duties of the office as set forth in this article.

            Section 2. General Repealer. Ordinances in conflict with this ordinance are hereby
            repealed to the extent of such conflict.

            Section 3. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.
Docusign Envelope ID: 7BBE9216-3D9C-4D1E-8ADF-7D42743CF7FE




            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 25th day of September, 2025.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                              ____
                                                              Mayor Nann Worel
            Attest:



            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder

            Approved as to form:



            City Attorney’s Office
