Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            Ordinance No. 2026-04

              AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 11, CHAPTER 16 OF THE PARK CITY CODE,
               IMPLEMENTING NEW REGULATIONS FOR FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION IN
                            THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD



            WHEREAS, Utah Code § 10-9a-505 allows municipalities to enact ordinances
            regulating land use and development in flood plains to protect lives and prevent the loss
            of and damage to real property.

            WHEREAS, due to specific areas within city limits falling within a special flood hazard
            area, the City Council of Park City previously elected to join the National Flood
            Insurance Program (NFIP), a voluntary program administered by the Federal
            Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that provides federal flood insurance
            coverage for parcels within a special flood hazard area.

            WHEREAS, as part of its participation in the NFIP, the City must adopt and enforce its
            own Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance and the NFIP's requirements and regulations.

            WHEREAS, FEMA regularly updates the NFIP to reflect changes in flood risk due to
            factors like climate change, incorporation of new technologies, and scientific
            understanding that improves technical guidance and regulatory compliance for state
            and local communities, property owners, and insurance agents.

            WHEREAS, due to recent substantial federal regulatory changes, this ordinance must
            be updated to remain current with NFIP federal regulations and legislation.

            BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH, THAT:

            SECTION 1. AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 11, CHAPTER 16. Title 11, Chapter 16 of the
            Park City Code, referred to as the Flood Damage Prevention Ordinance, is hereby
            amended as shown in Attachment A.

            SECTION 2. EFFECTIVE DATE. This Ordinance shall be effective upon publication
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 9th day of April, 2026.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                              ____
                                                              Mayor Ryan Dickey
            Attest:



            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder

            Approved as to form:



            City Attorney’s Office
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            11-16 Flood Damage

            11-16-1 Statutory Authorization
            11-16-2 Findings of Fact
            11-16-3 Statement of Purpose
            11-16-4 Methods of Reducing Flood Losses
            11-16-5 Lands to Which This Chapter Applies
            11-16-6 Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard
            11-16-7 Establishment of Development Permit
            11-16-8 Compliance
            11-16-9 Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
            11-16-10 Interpretation
            11-16-11 Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
            11-16-12 Severability
            11-16-13 Stop Work Order
            11-16-14 Penalties for Noncompliance
            11-16-1315 Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
            11-16-1416 Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
            11-16-17 Requirements to Submit New Technical Data
            11-16-1518 Permit Procedures
            11-16-1619 Appeal and Variance Procedures
            11-16-1720 General Standards
            11-16-21 Substantial Improvement and Substantial Damage Determination
            11-16-1822 Speciﬁc Standards
            11-16-1923 Standards for Subdivision Proposals
            11-16-2024 Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
            11-16-21 25 Floodways
            11-16-2226 Deﬁnitions

            11-16-1 Statutory Authorization
            Consistent with Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-701, local governments adopt ordinances designed to
            promote the public health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry.The National Flood Insurance
            Program (NFIP), regulated by Title 44, Chapter I, of the Code of Federal Regulations (C.F.R.), is a
            federal program managed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) that provides
            primary ﬂood insurance in exchange for communities adopting ﬂoodplain management standards to
            reduce future ﬂood risk. Under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, communities must adopt
            and implement local ﬂoodplain management regulations that contribute to protecting lives and
            reducing the risk of New Construction and Substantial Improvements from future ﬂooding to
            participate in the NFIP. Additionally, Utah Code § 10-9a-505 allows municipalities to enact
            ordinances regulating land use and development in ﬂoodplains in order to protect life and prevent
            the loss of and damage to real property.
            11-16-2 Findings of Fact
            1.A.     The ﬂood hazard areas of Park City are subject to periodic inundation, which results in loss
                     of life and property, health and safety hazards, disruption of commerce and governmental
                     services, and extraordinary public expenditures for ﬂood protection and relief, all of which
                     adversely a ect the public health, safety, and general welfare.
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            2.B.     These ﬂood losses are created by the cumulative e ect of obstructions in ﬂoodplains,
                     which cause an increase in ﬂood heights and velocities, and by the occupancy of ﬂood
                     hazard areas by uses vulnerable to ﬂoods and hazardous to other lands because they are
                     inadequately ﬂood-proofed, elevated, or otherwise protected from ﬂood damage.
            11-16-3 Statement of Purpose
            It is the purpose of this Chapter to promote the public health, safety, and general welfare, and to
            minimize public and private losses due to ﬂood conditions in speciﬁc areas by provisions designed:
            1.A.     To protect human life and health;
            2.B.     To minimize expenditure of public money for costly ﬂood control projects;
            3.C.     To minimize the need for rescue and relief e orts associated with ﬂooding and generally
                     undertaken at the expense of the general public;
            4.D.     To minimize prolonged business interruptions;
            5.E.     To minimize damage to public facilities and utilities such as water and gas mains, electric,
                     telephone and sewer lines, streets, and bridges located in areas of special ﬂood hazard;
            6.F.     To help maintain a stable tax base by providing for the sound use and development of areas
                     of special ﬂood hazard so as to minimize future ﬂood blight areas;
            7.G.     To insureensure that potential buyers are notiﬁed that property is in an area of special ﬂood
                     hazard; and
            8.H.     To ensure that those who occupy the areas of special ﬂood hazard assume responsibility for
                     their actions.
            11-16-4 Methods of Reducing Flood Losses
            In order to accomplish its purpose, this Chapter uses the following methods:
            1.A.     Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety, or property in times of ﬂood
                     or cause excessive increases in ﬂood heights or velocities;
            2.B.     Require that uses vulnerable to ﬂoods, including facilities, which that serve such uses, be
                     protected against ﬂood damage at the time of initial construction;
            3.C.     Control the alteration of natural ﬂood plains, stream channels, and natural protective
                     barriers, which are involved in the accommodation of ﬂood waters;
            D.       Assure that the ﬂood carrying capacity within an altered or relocated portion of any
                     watercourse is maintained;.
            4.E.     Control ﬁlling, grading, dredging, and other development which may increase ﬂood
                     damage; and
            5.F.     Prevent or regulate the construction of ﬂood barriers whichthat will unnaturally divert ﬂood
                     waters or whichthat may increase ﬂood hazards in other areas.
            11-16-5 Lands to Which This Chapter Applies
            This Chapter shall apply to all areas of special ﬂood hazard identiﬁed by FEMA as well as areas of
            documented ﬂood risk supported using Best Available Data within the jurisdiction of Park City,
            Utah.
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            11-16-6 Basis for Establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard
            A.       The areas of special ﬂood hazard identiﬁed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
                     in a scientiﬁc and engineering report entitled, “The Flood Insurance Study for Summit
                     County, Utah”, dated March 23, 2021, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps
                     (FIRM) and Flood Boundary Maps (FIRM and FBFM). Park City automatically adopts any
                     revisions thereto to include any updated and e ective FEMA Flood Insurance Study, Flood
                     Insurance Rate Maps, and are hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this
                     Chapter.
            B.       Park City has elected to adopt Best Available Data to regulate ﬂoodplain development in
                     addition to utilizing the e ective FIRMs, FIS, and FBFM. Where Best Available Data
                     contradicts the FIRMs, FIS, or the FBFM, the more restrictive data shall be utilized.
            11-16-7 Establishment of Development Permit
            A ﬂoodplain development permit, preliminary plat approval, site plan approval, or a building permit,
            shall be required to ensure conformance with the provisions of this Chapter.
            11-16-8 Compliance
            No structure or land within City limits shall hereafter be located, altered, or have its use changed
            without full compliance with the terms of this Chapter and other applicable regulations.
            11-16-9 Abrogation and Greater Restrictions
            This Chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, or impair any existing easements, covenants, or
            deed restrictions. However, where this Chapter and other Titles or Chapters of this Code, another
            ordinance, easements, covenants, or deed restrictions conﬂict or overlap, whichever imposes the
            more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
            11-16-10 Interpretation
            In the interpretation and application of this Chapter, all provisions shall be:
            1.A.     Considered as minimum requirement;
            2.B.     Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
            3.C.     Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under State statutes.
            11-16-11 Warning and Disclaimer of Liability
            The degree of ﬂood protection required by this Chapter is considered reasonable for regulatory
            purposes and is based on scientiﬁc and engineering considerations. On rare occasions, greater
            ﬂoods can and will occur and ﬂood heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This
            Chapter does not imply that land outside the areas of special ﬂood hazards or uses permitted
            within such areas will be free from ﬂooding or ﬂood damages. This Chapter shall not create liability
            on the part of Park City, or any o icer or employee thereof for any ﬂood damages that result from
            the reliance on this Chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
            11-16-12 Severability
            If any section, provision, or portion of this Chapter is adjudgedjudged unconstitutional or invalid by
            a court, the remainder of the Chapter shall not be a ected.
            11-16-13 Stop Work Order
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            Violations of this ordinance shall result in a Stop Work Order pursuant to Section 11-2-4.
            11-16-14 Penalties for Noncompliance
            No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended, converted, or altered
            without full compliance with the terms of this Chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation
            of the provisions of this Chapter by failure to comply with any of its requirements (including
            violations of conditions and safeguards established in connection with conditions) shall incur
            penalties in accordance with this Code, State law, and Federal laws and regulations.
            11-16-1315 Designation of the Floodplain Administrator
            The Park City, City Engineer of Park City Municipal Corporation is hereby appointed the Floodplain
            Administrator to administer and implement the provisions of this Chapter and other appropriate
            sections of 44 CFRTitle 44 of the Code of Federal Regulations (National Flood Insurance Program
            Regulations) pertaining to ﬂoodplain management.
            11-16-1416 Duties and Responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator
            Duties and responsibilities of the Floodplain Administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the
            following:
            1.A.      Maintain and hold open for public inspection records pertaining to the provisions of this
                      Chapter.
            2.B.      Review permit applications to determine whether the proposed building site, including the
                      placement of manufactured homes, New Construction, Substantial Improvements, or other
                      development, will be reasonably safe from ﬂooding.
            3.C.      Review, approve or deny all applications for development permits required by adoption of
                      this Chapter. Review permits for proposed development to assure that all necessary
                      permits have been obtained from those Federal, State, and local government agencies
                      (including Section 404 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act Amendments of 1972, 33
                      U.S.C. § 1334) from which prior approval is required.
            4.D.      Where interpretation is needed as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of
                      special ﬂood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conﬂict between a mapped
                      boundary and actual ﬁeld conditions) the Floodplain Administrator shall make the
                      necessary interpretation.
            5.E.      Notify, iIn riverine situations, notify adjacent communities and the State Coordinating
                      Agency, which is the State of Utah Department of Public Safety Emergency Management
                      Division, prior to any alteration or relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such
                      notiﬁcation to the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and any other required
                      jurisdictional agencies.
                   6. Assure that the flood carrying capacity within the altered or relocated portion of any
                      watercourse is maintained.
            7.F.      When base flood elevationBase Flood Elevation data has not been provided in accordance
                      with Section 11-16-56, the Floodplain Administrator shall obtain, review and reasonably
                      utilize any base flood elevationBase Flood Elevation data and ﬂoodway data available from
                      a Federal, State or other sourcesources, in order to administer the provisions of Section 11-
                      16-1720, General Standards.
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            8.G.     When a regulatory ﬂoodway has not been designated, the Floodplain Administrator must
                     require that no new construction, substantial improvementsNew Construction, Substantial
                     Improvements, or other development (including ﬁll) shall be permitted within Zones A1-30
                     and AE on the community's FIRM, unless it is demonstrated that the cumulative e ect of
                     the proposed development, when combined with all other existing and anticipated
                     development, will not increase the water surface elevation of the base floodBase Flood
                     Elevation more than one foot plus two feet of Freeboard at any point within the community.
            9.H.     Under the provisions of 44 CFRC.F.R. Chapter 1, Section 65.12, of the National Flood
                     Insurance Program regulations, a community may approve certain development in Zones
                     A1-30, AE, AH, on the community's FIRM which increases the water surface elevation of the
                     base ﬂood by more than one foot, provided that the communityapplicant ﬁrst applies for
                     and receives approval of a conditional FIRM revision through FEMA (Conditional Letter of
                     Map Revision (CLOMR)).
            I.       In addition to utilizing the e ective FIRMs, FIS, Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, all
                     permit reviews will utilize Best Available Data.
            11-16-17 Requirement to Submit New Technical Data
            A.       The property owner or developer shall notify FEMA by submission of a Letter of Map
                     Revision (LOMR) within six months of project completion when an applicant has obtained a
                     CLOMR from FEMA or when development altered a watercourse, modiﬁed ﬂoodplain
                     boundaries, or modiﬁed Base Flood Elevation.
            B.       The property owner or developer shall be responsible for preparing technical data to
                     support the CLOMR or LOMR application and paying any processing or application fees to
                     FEMA. The property owner or developer is responsible for submitting the CLOMR and LOMR
                     to FEMA and shall provide all necessary data to FEMA if requested during the review
                     process to ensure the CLOMR or LOMR is issued.
            C.       The Floodplain Administrator shall be under no obligation to sign the Community
                     Acknowledgement Form, which is part of the CLOMR/LOMR application, until the applicant
                     demonstrates that the project will or has met the requirements of this Chapter and all
                     applicable state, federal, and local laws.
            11-16-1518 Permit Procedures
                 1. Applications for a development permit shall be presented to the Floodplain Administrator on
                    forms furnished by him/her and maymust include, but are not be limited to, the following, if
                    relevantt: a certiﬁcate from a registered professional engineer verifying the ﬂoodproofed
                    structure meets the ﬂoodprooﬁng criteria in Section 11-16-22, plans in duplicate drawn to
                    scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed landscape alterations,
                    existing and proposed structures and improvements, (including the placement of
                    manufactured homes, ), proposed landscape alterations, and the location of the foregoing in
                    relation to areas of special ﬂood hazard. The applicant must also provide the base ﬂood
                    elevation, as determined by a registered professional engineer for both before and after their
                    proposed development. Additionally,At the following information is required:
                         1. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) ofCity’s discretion, the lowest floor (including
                            basement) of all new and substantially improved structures;
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




                           2. Elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which any nonresidential structure shall
                              be floodproofed;
                           3. A certificate fromCity may charge a registered professional engineer or architect that
                              the nonresidential floodproofed structure shall meet the floodproofing criteria of
                              Section 11-16-18(2);
            4.A.     Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage will be altered or
                     relocated as a resultfee for issuance of proposedﬂoodplain development; permits per the
                     City’s approved fee schedule.
            B.       MaintainCopies of all ﬂoodplain development permits and the associated documents shall
                     become the property of Park City and a permanent record.
            5.C.     The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all such information in accordance
                     with Section 11-16-1416(A).
            2.D.     Approval or denial of a development permit by the Floodplain Administrator shall beis
                     based on all of the provisions of this Chapter andincluding, but not limited to, the following
                     relevant factors:
                     1.       The danger to life and property due to ﬂooding or erosion damage;
                     2.       The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to ﬂood damage and the
                              e ect of such damage on the individual owner;
                     3.       The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the injury of others;
                     4.       The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated development;
                     5.       The safety of access to the property in times of ﬂood for ordinary and emergency
                              vehicles;
                     6.       The costs of providing governmental services during and after ﬂood conditions,
                              including maintenance and repair of streets and, bridges, and public utilities and
                              facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems;
                     7.       The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment transport of the
                              ﬂood waters and the e ects of wave action, if applicable, expected at the site;
                     8.       The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where applicable;
                     9.       The availability of alternative locations, not subject to ﬂooding or erosion damage,
                              for the proposed use;
                     10.      The relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan for that area.
            11-16-1619 Appeal and Variance Procedures
                 1. The Board of Appeals as established by the Land Management Code shall hear and render
                    judgement on requests for variances from the requirements of this Chapter.
                     The Board of Appeals shall hear and render judgement on an appeal only when it is alleged
                     there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination made in the enforcement or
                     administration of this Chapter.
                     Any person or persons aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Appeals City Council may
                     appeal such decision in the courts of competent jurisdiction within thirty (30) days.
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




                     The Floodplain Administrator shall maintain a record of all actions involving an appeal and
                     shall report variances to the Federal Emergency Management Agency upon request.
            A.       Any person or entity may appeal a ﬁnal decision of the City administering or interpreting the
                     contents of this Chapter as applied to a Parcel or Property that the person or entity owns,
                     leases, or in which they hold some other beneﬁcial interest by ﬁling an appeal with the City
                     Recorder for a hearing following the procedures outlined in Utah Code § 10-9a-703(2) or
                     before a Land Use Hearing O icer following the procedures for appeals to a Land Use
                     Hearing O icer outlined in Section 15-1-18 of this Code.
                     Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modiﬁcation of the requirements of this Chapter as
                     applied to a Parcel or Property that a person or entity owns, leases, or in which they hold
                     some other beneﬁcial interest may apply to the Board of Adjustment for a variance from the
                     terms of this Chapter following the process outlined in Section 15-10-8 of this Code.
            B.       In reviewing variance requests under this Chapter, the Board of Adjustment will substitute
                     the words “Title 11, Chapter 16” for “Land Management Code” in Section 15-10-8 of this
                     Code. In addition to the conditions found in Section 15-10-8(C), the Board of Adjustment
                     will consider the following when deciding variance requests:
                     1.      Federal regulations regarding variances and exceptions set forth in 44 C.F.R. § 60.6,
                             or a successor provision.
                     2.      The factors speciﬁed in Section 11-16-18(D)(1)–(10).
            2.C.     Notwithstanding the other requirements of this Section, variances may be issued by the
                     Floodplain Administrator for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
                     determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
                     continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to
                     preserve the historic character and design of the structure.for the reconstruction,
                     rehabilitation, or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
                     the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set forth in the
                     remainder of this Chapter.
            3.       Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements to be erected
                     on a lot of one-half acre or less in size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing
                     structures constructed below the base flood level, providing the relevant factors in Section
                     11-16-15 (2A - J) have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the one-half
                     acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance increases.
            4.       Upon consideration of the factors noted above and the intent of this Chapter, the Board of
                     Adjustment may attach such conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary
                     to further the purpose and objectives of this Chapter (Section 11-16-3 Statement of
                     Purpose).
            5.       Variances shall not be issued within any designated ﬂoodway if any increase in ﬂood levels
                     during the base ﬂood discharge would result.
            6.       Variances may be issued for the repair or rehabilitation of historic structures upon a
                     determination that the proposed repair or rehabilitation will not preclude the structure's
                     continued designation as a historic structure and the variance is the minimum necessary to
                     preserve the historic character and design of the structure.
            7.       Prerequisites for granting variances:
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            1.       Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the variance is the minimum
                     necessary, considering the ﬂood hazard, to a ord relief.
            2.       Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.       showing a good and su icient cause;
            2.       a determination that failure to grant the variance would result in exceptional hardship to the
                     applicant; and
            3.       a determination that the granting of a variance will not result in increased ﬂood heights,
                     additional threats to public safety, extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause
                     fraud on or victimization of the public, or conﬂict with existing local laws or ordinances.
            3.D.     Any applicantAny person or entity to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
                     notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with the lowest ﬂoor elevation below
                     the base ﬂood elevation,Base Flood Elevation and that the cost of ﬂood insurance willmay
                     be commensurate withgreater because of the increased risk resulting from the reduced
                     lowest ﬂoor elevation.
                 8. Variances may be issued for new construction and substantial improvements and for other
                    development necessary for the conduct of a functionally dependent use provided that:
                          1. the criteria outlined in Section 11-16-16 (1)-(9) are met; and
                          2. the structure or other development is protected by methods that minimize flood
                             damage during the base flood and create no additional threats to public safety.
            E.       The Floodplain Administrator may request that technical aspects of any appeal or variance
                     request be decided by a technical panel of qualiﬁed experts. Determining what constitutes
                     technical aspects will be determined by the Floodplain Administrator,
                     1.       The panel will consist of, unless otherwise agreed to by the applicant and City:
                             a.      one expert designated by the City;
                             b.      one expert designated by the land use applicant; and
                             c.      one expert chosen jointly by the City's designated expert and the land use
                                     applicant's designated expert.
                     2.      No member of the panel may be associated with the application that is the subject
                             of the appeal.
                     3.      The land use applicant shall pay:
                             a.      ½half of the cost of the panel; and
                             b.       any fees per the City’s approved fee schedule.
                     4.      Upon consideration of the requirements and the intent of this Chapter, the technical
                             panel may attach conditions to the granting of variances deemed necessary to
                             further the purpose and objectives of this Chapter.
            11-16-1720 General Standards
            In all areas of special ﬂood hazards, the following provisions are required for all new construction
            and substantial improvementsNew Construction and Substantial Improvements:
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            1.A.     Shall be designed (or modiﬁed) and adequately anchored to prevent ﬂotation, collapse or
                     lateral movement of the structure resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads,
                     including the e ects of buoyancy;
            2.B.     Shall be constructed by methods and practices that minimize ﬂood damage;
            3.C.     Shall be constructed with materials resistant to ﬂood damage;
            4.D.     Shall be constructed with electrical, heating, ventilation, plumbing, and air conditioning
                     equipment and other service facilities that are designed and/or located so as to prevent
                     water from entering or accumulating within the components during conditions of ﬂooding.
            5.E.     All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
                     inﬁltration of ﬂood waters into the system;
            6.F.     New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to minimize or eliminate
                     inﬁltration of ﬂood waters into the system and discharge from the systems into ﬂood
                     waters; and,
            7.G.     On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid impairment to them or
                     contamination from them during ﬂooding.
            11-16-21 Substantial Improvement and Substantial Damage Determination
            For applications for building permits to improve buildings and structures, including alterations,
            movement, enlargement, replacement, repair, change of occupancy, additions, rehabilitations,
            renovations, and any other improvement of or work on such buildings and structures that have
            experienced ﬂood damage, the Floodplain Administrator, in coordination with the applicable city
            sta , shall:
            A.       Use assessed value or allow the applicant to obtain an appraisal prepared by a qualiﬁed
                     independent appraiser of the building or structure (not of land and building) before the Start
                     of Construction of the proposed work. In the case of repair, the assessed or appraised value
                     of the building or structure shall be the assessed value before the damage occurred and
                     before any repairs are made.
            B.       Compare the cost to perform the improvement, or the cost to repair a damaged building to
                     its pre-damaged condition, or the combined costs of improvements and repairs, if
                     applicable, to the assessed or appraised value of the building or structure.
            C.       Determine and document whether the proposed work constitutes Substantial Improvement
                     or repair of Substantial Damage.
            D.       The Substantial Improvement regulations apply to all of the work that is proposed as the
                     improvement, even if multiple permits are issued. Therefore, the determination of the cost
                     of the improvement should consider all costs of all phases of the work before issuance of
                     the ﬁrst permit.
            E.       Notify the applicant that if it is determined that the work constitutes a Substantial
                     Improvement or repair of Substantial Damage, and that compliance with this Chapter is
                     required.
            11-16-1822 Speciﬁc Standards
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            In all areas of special ﬂood hazards where base flood elevation Base Flood Elevation data has been
            provided as set forth in (i) Section 11-16-6, (ii) Section 11-16-14(G), or (iii) Section 11-16-18(C),., the
            following provisions are required:
            1.A.     Residential Construction - new. New construction and substantial improvementSubstantial
                     Improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest ﬂoor (including basement),)
                     elevated to or above the base flood elevation.Base Flood Elevation plus a minimum of two
                     feet of Freeboard. A registered professional engineer, architect, or land surveyor shall
                     submit a certificationstatement to the Floodplain Administrator conﬁrming that the
                     standard of this subsection as proposed in Section 11-16-15(1A), is satisfiedproject meets
                     the above elevation requirements.
            2.B.     Nonresidential Construction - new. New construction and substantial
                     improvementsSubstantial Improvements of any commercial, industrial or other
                     nonresidential structure shall either have the lowest ﬂoor (including basement) elevated to
                     or above the base flood levelBase Flood Elevation plus a minimum of two feet of Freeboard
                     or, together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the base
                     flood levelBase Flood Elevation the structure is watertight with walls substantially
                     impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components having the capability
                     of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads and e ects of buoyancy. A registered
                     professional engineer or architect shall develop and/or review structural design,
                     speciﬁcations, and plans for the construction, and shall certify that the design and
                     methods of construction are in accordance with accepted standards of practice as outlined
                     in this subsection. A record of such certiﬁcation which includes the speciﬁc elevation (in
                     relation to mean sea level) to which such structures are ﬂoodproofed shall be maintained
                     by the Floodplain Administrator.
            3.C.     Enclosures - new. New construction and substantial improvements,Substantial
                     Improvements with fully enclosed areas below the lowest ﬂoor that are usable solely for
                     parking of vehicles, building access or storage in an area other than a basement and which
                     are subject to ﬂooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic ﬂood forces
                     on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of ﬂoodwaters. Designs for meeting this
                     requirement must either be certiﬁed by a registered professional engineer or architect or
                     meet or exceed the following minimum criteria:
                     1.      A minimum of two openings having a total net area of not less than one square inch
                             for every square foot of enclosed area subject to ﬂooding shall be provided.
                     2.      The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than one foot above grade.
                     3.      Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, valves, or other coverings or
                             devices provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of ﬂoodwaters.
            D.       Crawlspace. New Construction and Substantial Improvements built on a crawlspace or
                     sub-grade (below grade) crawlspace may be permitted if the development is designed and
                     meets or exceeds the standards found in FEMA’s National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)
                     Technical Bulletins 1, 2, and 11, which include but are not limited to the following:
                     1.      The structure must be a ixed to a permanent foundation, designed and adequately
                             anchored to resist ﬂotation, collapse, and lateral movement of the structure
                             resulting from hydrodynamic and hydrostatic loads, including the e ects of
                             buoyancy. Because of hydrodynamic loads, crawlspace construction is not allowed
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




                             in areas with ﬂood velocities greater than ﬁve feet per second unless the design is
                             reviewed by a qualiﬁed design professional, such as a registered architect or
                             professional engineer.
                     2.      The crawlspace is an enclosed area below the Base Flood Elevation and, as such,
                             must have openings that equalize hydrostatic pressures by allowing the automatic
                             entry and exit of ﬂoodwaters. The bottom of each ﬂood vent opening can be no more
                             than one foot above the LAG.
                     3.      The crawlspace enclosure must have proper openings that allow equalization of
                             hydrostatic pressure by allowing automatic entry and exit of ﬂoodwaters. To achieve
                             this, a minimum of one square inch of ﬂood opening is required per one square foot
                             of the enclosed area subject to ﬂooding.
                     4.      Portions of the building below the Base Flood Elevation must be constructed with
                             materials resistant to ﬂood damage. This includes not only the foundation walls of
                             the crawlspace used to elevate the building, but also any joists, insulation, piers, or
                             other materials that extend below the Base Flood Elevation. Ductwork, in particular,
                             must either be placed above the Base Flood Elevation or sealed from ﬂoodwaters.
                     5.      Any building utility systems within the crawlspace must be elevated above the Base
                             Flood Elevation or designed so that ﬂoodwaters cannot enter or accumulate within
                             the system components during ﬂood conditions.
                     6.      The interior grade of a crawlspace below the Base Flood Elevation must not be more
                             than 2 feet below the LAG.
                     7.      The height of the below-grade crawlspace, measured from the lowest interior grade
                             of the crawlspace ﬂoor to the bottom of the ﬂoor joist of the next higher ﬂoor cannot
                             exceed four feet at any point.
                     8.      There must be an adequate drainage system that removes ﬂoodwaters from the
                             interior area of the crawlspace. The enclosed area should be drained within a
                             reasonable time after a ﬂood event.
                     9.      Buildings with below-grade crawlspaces will have higher ﬂood insurance premiums
                             than buildings that have the preferred crawlspace construction, with the interior
                             elevation at or above the LAG.
            4.E.     Manufactured Homes –.
                     1.      Require that allAll manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
                             community'sthe City's FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and
                             practices which minimize ﬂood damage. For the purposes of this requirement,
                             manufactured homes must be elevated and anchored to resist ﬂotation, collapse,
                             or lateral movement. Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use
                             of over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchors. This requirement is in addition to
                             applicable State and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind forces.
                     2.      Require that manufacturedManufactured homes that are placed or substantially
                             improved within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community'sCity's FIRM on sites (i)
                             outside of a manufactured home park or subdivision, (ii) in a new manufactured
                             home park or subdivision, (iii) in an expansion to an existing manufactured home
                             park or subdivision, or (iv) in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision on
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




                             which a manufactured home has incurred "substantial damageSubstantial
                             Damage" as a result of a ﬂood, must be elevated on a permanent foundation such
                             that the lowest ﬂoor of the manufactured home is elevated to or above the base
                             flood elevationBase Flood Elevation and must be securely anchored to an
                             adequately anchored foundation system to resist ﬂotation, collapse, and lateral
                             movement.
                     3.      Require that manufacturedManufactured homes be placed or substantially
                             improved on sites in an existing manufactured home park or subdivision with Zones
                             A1-30, AH and AE on the community's FIRM that are not subject to the provisions of
                             paragraph (4) of this sectionCity's FIRM must be elevated so that either:
                             1.a.    the lowest ﬂoor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood
                                     elevationBase Flood Elevation, or
                             2.b.    the manufactured home chassis is supported by reinforced piers or other
                                     foundation elements of at least equivalent strength that are no less than 36
                                     inches in height above grade and be securely anchored to an adequately
                                     anchored foundation system to resist ﬂotation, collapse, and lateral
                                     movement.
            5.F.     Recreational Vehicles - Require that recreationalRecreational vehicles placed on sites
                     within Zones A1-30, AH, and AE on the community'sCity's FIRM must either:
                     1.      be on the site for fewer than 180 consecutive days,
                     2.      be fully licensed and ready for highway use, or
                     3.      meet the permit requirements of Section 11-16-1518(A), and the elevation and
                             anchoring requirements for "manufactured homes" in paragraph (4subsection (E) of
                             this section. Section.
                     3.      A recreational vehicle is ready for highway use if it is on its wheels or jacking system,
                     is attached to the site only by quick disconnect type utilities and security devices, and has
                     no permanently attached additions.
            11-16-1923 Standards for Subdivision Proposals
            1.A.     All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
                     subdivisions shall be consistent with Sections 11-16-3, -4this Chapter.
            2.B.     All proposals for the development of subdivisions including the placement of manufactured
                     home parks and subdivisions shall meet Development Permit requirements of Sections 11-
                     16-7, -15, -17, -18, -19, and -20 of this Chapter...
            3.C.     Base flood elevationFlood Elevation data shall be generated for subdivision proposals and
                     other proposed development including the placement of manufactured home parks and
                     subdivisions which isare greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is lesser, if not otherwise
                     provided pursuant to Section 11-16-6, or Section 11-16-14 (G16 (F) of this Chapter.
            4.D.     All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
                     subdivisions shall have adequate drainage provided to reduce exposure to ﬂood hazards.
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            5.E.     All subdivision proposals including the placement of manufactured home parks and
                     subdivisions shall have public utilities and facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water
                     systems located and constructed to minimize or eliminate ﬂood damage.
            11-16-2024 Standards for Areas of Shallow Flooding (AO/AH Zones)
            Located within the areas of special ﬂood hazard established in Section 11-16-6, are areas
            designated as areas of shallow ﬂooding. These areas have special ﬂood hazards associated with
            base ﬂood depths of 1 to 3 feet where a clearly deﬁned channel does not exist and where the path
            of ﬂooding is unpredictable and where velocity ﬂow may be evident. Such ﬂooding is characterized
            by ponding or sheet ﬂow; therefore, the following provisions apply:
            1.A.     All new constructionNew Construction and substantial improvementsSubstantial
                     Improvements of residential structures must have the lowest ﬂoor (including basement)
                     elevated above the highest adjacent grade at least as high as the depth number speciﬁed in
                     feet on the community's FIRMCity's FIRM plus a minimum of two feet of Freeboard (at least
                     two feet if no depth number is speciﬁed).
            2.B.     All new constructionNew Construction and substantial improvementsSubstantial
                     Improvements of non-residential structures; must:
                     1.      have the lowest ﬂoor (including basement) elevated above the highest adjacent
                             grade at least as high as the depth number speciﬁed in feet on the
                             community'sCity's FIRM (at least two feet if no depth number is speciﬁed),); or;
                     2.      together with attendant utility and sanitary facilities, be designed so that below the
                             base flood levelBase Flood Elevation the structure is watertight with walls
                             substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural components
                             having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic loads of e ects of
                             buoyancy.
            3.C.     A registered professional engineer or architect shall submit a certiﬁcation to the Floodplain
                     Administrator that the standards of this Section, as proposed are satisﬁed at the time of
                     development permit application in accordance with Section 11-16-15(A), are satisfied18.
            4.D.     RequireDemonstrate via two-dimensional hydraulic modeling within Zones AH or AO that
                     adequate drainage paths exist around structures on slopes, to guide ﬂood waters around
                     and away from proposed structures.
            11-16-2125 Floodways
            Floodways - located Located within areas of special ﬂood hazard established in Section 11-16-6,
            are areas designated as ﬂoodways. Since the ﬂoodway is an extremely hazardous area due to the
            velocity of ﬂood waters which carry debris, potential projectiles and erosion potential, the following
            provisions shall apply in ﬂoodways:
            1.A.     Encroachments are prohibited, including ﬁll, new construction, substantial
                     improvementsNew Construction, Substantial Improvements and other development within
                     the adopted regulatory ﬂoodway unless it has been demonstrated through hydrologic and
                     hydraulic analyses performed in accordance with standard engineering practice by a
                     registered professional engineer that the proposed encroachment would not result in any
                     increase in ﬂood levels within the community during the occurrence of the base ﬂood
                     discharge.
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            2.B.     If Section 11-16-20(1)6 above is satisﬁed, all new constructionNew Construction and
                     substantial improvementsSubstantial Improvements shall comply with all applicable ﬂood
                     hazard reduction provisions of Sections 11-16-17, -18, -1920, 22, and, 23.
            3.C.     Under the provisions of 44 CFR Chapter 1, SectionC.F.R. § 65.12, of the National Flood
                     Insurance Regulations, a communitythe City may permit encroachments within the
                     adopted regulatory ﬂoodway that would result in an increase in base flood elevationsBase
                     Flood Elevations, provided that the communityapplicant ﬁrst applies for and receives a
                     conditional FIRMCLOMR and ﬂoodway revision through FEMA in which the applicant’s
                     property is removed from the ﬂoodway.
            11-16-22 26 Definitions
            The following definitions apply in this Chapter:As used in this Chapter, the capitalized terms shall
            have the meanings stated below or as deﬁned in 44 C.F.R. Part 59, unless the context clearly
            requires some other meaning:
                     ALLUVIAL FAN FLOODING - means ﬂooding occurring on the surface of an alluvial fan or
                     similar landform which originates at the apex and is characterized by high-velocity ﬂows;
                     active processes of erosion, sediment transport, and deposition; and unpredictable ﬂow
                     paths.

                     APEX - means a point on an alluvial fan or similar landform below which the ﬂow path of the
                     major stream that formed the fan becomes unpredictable and alluvial fan ﬂooding can
                     occur.
            A.       AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING - means a. A designated AO, AH, or VO zone on a
                     community's Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with a one percent chance or greater annual
                     chance of ﬂooding to an average depth of one to three feet where a clearly deﬁned channel
                     does not exist, where the path of ﬂooding is unpredictable and where velocity ﬂow may be
                     evident. Such ﬂooding is characterized by ponding or sheet ﬂow.
            B.       AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD - is the. The land in the ﬂoodplain within a community
                     is subject to a one percent or greater chance of ﬂooding in any given year. The area may be
                     designated as Zone A on the Flood Hazard Boundary Map (FHBM). After detailed ratemaking
                     has been completed in preparation for publication of the FIRM, Zone A usually is reﬁned into
                     Zones A, AE, AH, AO, A1-99, VO, V1-30, VE or V.
            C.       BASE FLOOD - means the. The ﬂood having a one percent chance of being equaled or
                     exceeded in any given year.
            D.       BASE FLOOD ELEVATION (BFE) is the. The elevation of surface water resulting from a ﬂood
                     that has a 1% chance of equaling or exceeding that level in any given year. The BFE is shown
                     on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for zones AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, AR/A, AR/A1-A30,
                     AR/AH, AR/AO, V1-12w30, and VE. ater surface elevation of the 1-percent-annual-chance
                     ﬂood event. It is the height in relation to mean sea level expected to be reached by the
                     waters of the base ﬂood at pertinent points in the ﬂoodplains of coastal and riverine areas.
                     It is also the elevation shown on the FIRM and found in the accompanying Flood Insurance
                     Study (FIS) for Zones A, AE, AH, A1-A30, AR, V1-V30, or VE that indicates the water surface
                     elevation resulting from the ﬂood that has a 1-percent chance of equaling or exceeding that
                     level in any given year.
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            E.       BASEMENT - means any. Any area of the building, including any sunken or sunken portion
                     of a room, having its ﬂoor sub-grade (below ground level) (subgrade) on all sides.
            F.       BEST AVAILABLE DATA. Existing ﬂood hazard information adopted by a community and
                     reﬂected on an e ective FIRM, FBFM, and/or within an FIS report; or draft or preliminary
                     ﬂood hazard information supplied by FEMA or from another acceptable source. Other
                     sources may include, but are not limited to, the state, other federal agencies, or local
                     studies prepared by a licensed civil engineerregistered professional engineer, the more
                     restrictive of which would be reasonably used by the community.
            G.       BREAKAWAY WALL. A wall that is not part of the structural support of the building and is
                     intended through its design and construction to collapse under speciﬁc lateral loading
                     forces, without causing damage to the elevated portion of the building or supporting
                     foundation system.
            H.       CLOMR (CONDITIONAL LETTER OF MAP REVISION). FEMA's comment on a proposed
                     project that would, upon construction, a ect the hydrologic and/or hydraulic
                     characteristics of a ﬂooding source and thus result in the modiﬁcation of the existing
                     regulatory ﬂoodway, the e ective Base Flood Elevations, and/or the Special Flood Hazard
                     Area. The letter does not revise an e ective map; it indicates whether the project, if built as
                     proposed, would be recognized by FEMA.
            I.       CRITICAL FEATURE - means an. An integral and readily identiﬁable part of a ﬂood
                     protection system, without which the ﬂood protection provided by the entire system would
                     be compromised.
            J.       DEVELOPMENT - means any. Any man-made change in improved and unimproved real
                     estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, ﬁlling,
                     grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations, or storage of equipment or materials.
            K.       ELEVATED BUILDING - means a. A non-basement building (i) built, in the case of a building
                     in Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO, AH, B, C, X, and D, to have the top of the elevated ﬂoor, or in
                     the case of a building in Zones V1-30, VE, or V, to have the bottom of the lowest horizontal
                     structure member of the elevated ﬂoor elevated above the ground level by means of pilings,
                     columns (posts and piers), or shear walls parallel to the ﬂoor of the water and (ii)
                     adequately anchored so as not to impair the structural integrity of the building during a
                     ﬂood of up to the magnitude of the base ﬂood. In the case of Zones A1-30, AE, A, A99, AO,
                     AH, B, C, X, and D, "elevated building" also includes a building elevated by means of ﬁll or
                     solid foundation perimeter walls with openings su icient to facilitate the unimpeded
                     movement of ﬂood waters. In the case of Zones V1-30, VE, or V, "elevated building" also
                     includes a building otherwise meeting the deﬁnition of "elevated building," even though the
                     lower area is enclosed by means of breakaway walls if the breakaway walls met the
                     standards of Section 60.3(e)(5) of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.
            L.       EXISTING CONSTRUCTION - means for. For the purposes of determining rates, structures
                     for which the "startStart of construction"Construction commenced before the e ective
                     date of the FIRM or before January 1, 1975, for FIRMs e ective before that date. "Existing
                     construction" may also be referred to as "existing structures."
            M.       EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a. A manufactured
                     home park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on
                     which the manufactured homes are to be a ixed (including, at a minimum, the installation
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




                     of utilities, the construction of streets, and either ﬁnal site grading or the pouring of
                     concrete pads) is completed before the e ective date of the ﬂoodplain management
                     regulations adopted by a community.
            N.       EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION- Means
                     the. The preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing the lots
                     on which the manufactured homes are to be a ixed (including the installation of utilities,
                     the construction of streets, and either ﬁnal site grading or the pouring of concrete pads).
            O.       FEMA. The Federal Emergency Management Agency.
            P.       FHBM (FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP). An older, less detailed, preliminary ﬂood map
                     that was used to make limited ﬂood insurance available before a detailed ﬂood study and
                     FIRM were completed.
            Q.       FIRM (FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP) . An o icial map of a community, on which the
                     Federal Emergency Management Agency has delineated both the areas of special ﬂood
                     hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
            R.       FIS (FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY). The o icial report provided by FEMA. The report contains
                     ﬂood proﬁles, water surface elevation of the base ﬂood, as well as the Flood Boundary-
                     Floodway Map.
            S.       FLOOD OR FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
                     inundation of 2 or more acres of normally dry land area o of 2 or more properties (at least 1
                     of which is the policyholders property) from:
                     – Overﬂow of inland or tidal waves; or
                     -Unusual and rapid accumulation of runo of surface waters from any source; or
                     Mudﬂow; or
                     Collapse or subsidence of land along the shore of a lake or similar body of water as a result
                     of erosion or undermining caused by waves or currents of water exceeding anticipated
                     cyclical levels that result in a ﬂood as deﬁned above.
                     A.     normally dry land areas from: (1) the overﬂow of inland or tidal waters or (2) the
                     unusual and rapid accumulation or runo of surface waters from any source.
                     FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM) - means
                     FIRM . An o icial map of a community, on which the Federal Emergency Management
                     Agency has delineated both the areas of special ﬂood hazards and the risk premium zones
                     applicable to the community.
                     FIS FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY - is the. The o icial report provided by the Federal
                     Emergency Management AgencyFEMA. The report contains ﬂood proﬁles, water surface
                     elevation of the base ﬂood, as well as the Flood Boundary-Floodway Map.
            B.T.     FLOOD PROOFING. Any combination of structural and non-structural additions, changes,
                     or adjustments to structures which reduce or eliminate ﬂood damage to real estate or
                     improved real property, water and sanitary facilities, structures and their contents.
            U.       FLOOD PROTECTION SYSTEM. Those physical structural works for which funds have been
                     authorized, appropriated, and expended and which have been constructed speciﬁcally to
                     modify ﬂooding in order to reduce the extent of the areas within a community subject to a
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




                     "special ﬂood hazard" and the extent of the depths of associated ﬂooding. Such a system
                     typically includes hurricane tidal barriers, dams, reservoirs, levees or dikes. These
                     specialized ﬂood modifying works are those constructed in conformance with sound
                     engineering standards.
            V.       FLOOD ZONE AH. Areas with a 1% annual chance of shallow ﬂooding, usually in the form of
                     a pond, with an average depth ranging from 1 to 3 feet. These areas have a 26% chance of
                     ﬂooding over the life of a 30-year mortgage. Base Flood Elevations derived from detailed
                     analyses are shown at selected intervals within these zones by FEMA.
            W.       FLOOD ZONE AO. A high-risk area where the chance of shallow ﬂooding is at least 1%
                     annually. In these zones, water typically ﬂows over sloping ground as "sheet ﬂow," and the
                     average ﬂood depth is expected to be between one and three feet. This zone is designated
                     as a Special Flood Hazard Area by FEMA.
            X.       FLOODPLAIN OR FLOOD-PRONE AREA - means any. Any land area susceptible to being
                     inundated by water from any source (see deﬁnition of ﬂooding).
            Y.       FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT - means the. The operation of an overall program of
                     corrective and preventive measures for reducing ﬂood damage, including but not limited to
                     emergency preparedness plans, ﬂood control works and ﬂoodplain management
                     regulations.
            Z.       FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT REGULATIONS - means zoning. Zoning ordinances,
                     subdivision regulations, building codes, health regulations, special purpose ordinances
                     (such as a ﬂoodplain ordinance, grading ordinance and erosion control ordinance) and
                     other applications of police power. The term describes such federal, state or local
                     regulations, in any combination thereof, which provide standards for the purpose of ﬂood
                     damage prevention and reduction.
            AA.      FLOODWAY (REGULATORY FLOODWAY) - means the). The channel of a river or other
                     watercourse and the adjacent land areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the
                     base ﬂood without cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation more than a
                     designated height.
            BB.      FREEBOARD. A factor of safety usually expressed in feet above Base Flood Elevation level in
                     determining the level at which a structure’s lowest ﬂoor must be elevated or ﬂood proofed
                     for purposes of ﬂoodplain management. “Freeboard” tends to compensate for the many
                     unknown factors that could contribute to ﬂood heights greater than the height calculated
                     for a selected size ﬂood and ﬂoodway conditions, such as wave action, bridge openings,
                     and the hydrological e ect of urbanization of the watershed.
            CC.      FUNCTIONALLY DEPENDENT USE - means a. A use which cannot perform its intended
                     purpose unless it is located or carried out in close proximity to water. The term includes only
                     docking facilities, port facilities that are necessary for the loading and unloading of cargo or
                     passengers, and ship building and ship repair facilities, but does not include long-term
                     storage or related manufacturing facilities.
            DD.      HIGHEST ADJACENT GRADE - means the. The highest natural elevation of the ground
                     surface prior to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure.
            C.EE. HISTORIC STRUCTURE- means any. Any structure that is:
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




                     1.      Listed individually in the National Register of Historic Places (a listing maintained by
                             the Department of Interior) or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the
                             Interior as meeting the requirements for individual listing on the National Register;
                     2.      Certiﬁed or preliminarily determined by the Secretary of the Interior as contributing
                             to the historical signiﬁcance of a registered historic district or a district preliminarily
                             determined by the Secretary to qualify as a registered historic district;
                     3.      Individually listed on a state inventory of historic places in states with historic
                             preservation programs which have been approved by the Secretary of Interior; or
                     4.      Individually listed on a local inventory or historic places (the Park City Historic Sites
                             Inventory per Land Management Code Section 15-11-10) in communities with
                             historic preservation programs that have been certiﬁed either:
                             1.a.    by an approved state program as determined by the Secretary of the Interior;
                                     or
                             2.b.    directly by the Secretary of the Interior in states without approved programs.
            FF.      LAG (LOWEST ADJACENT GRADE). The lowest natural elevation of the ground surface prior
                     to construction next to the proposed walls of a structure. For an existing structure, it means
                     the lowest point where the structure and ground touch, including but not limited to
                     attached garages, decks, stairs, and basement windows.
            D.GG. LEVEE - means a. A man-made structure, usually an earthen embankment, designed and
                  constructed in accordance with sound engineering practices to contain, control, or divert
                  the ﬂow of water so as to provide protection from temporary ﬂooding.
                     LEVEE SYSTEM - means a flood protection system which consists of a levee, or levees, and
                     associated structures, such as closure and drainage devices, which are constructed and
                     operated in accordance with sound engineering practices.
            E.HH. LOMR (LETTER OF MAP REVISION). FEMA's modiﬁcation or revision to an entire or portion
                  of the e ective FIRM, Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, or both. LOMRs are generally
                  based on the implementation of physical measures that a ect the hydrologic or hydraulic
                  characteristics of a ﬂooding source and thus result in the modiﬁcation of the existing
                  regulatory ﬂoodway, the e ective Base Flood Elevations, or the Special Flood Hazard Area.
            II.      LOWEST FLOOR - means the. The lowest ﬂoor of the lowest enclosed area (including
                     basement). An unﬁnished or ﬂood resistant enclosure, usable solely for parking or vehicles,
                     building access or storage in an area other than a basement area is not considered a
                     building's lowest ﬂoor,; provided that such enclosure is not built so as to render the
                     structure in violation of the applicable non-elevation design requirement of Section 60.3 of
                     the National Flood insurance Program regulations.
            JJ.      MANUFACTURED (MOBILE) HOME - means a. A structure transportable in one or more
                     sections, which is built on a permanent chassis and is designed for use with or without a
                     permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. The term "manufactured
                     home" does not include a "recreational vehicle".
            KK.      MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a. A parcel (or contiguous
                     parcels) of land divided into two or more manufactured home lots for rent or sale.
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            LL.      MEAN SEA LEVEL - means, for. For purposes of the National Flood Insurance Program, the
                     National Geodetic Vertical Datum (NGVD) of 1929, North American Datum (NAVD) of 1988,
                     or other datum, to which base flood elevationsBase Flood Elevations shown on a
                     community's Flood Insurance Rate Map are referenced.
            MM.      NEW CONSTRUCTION - means, for. For the purpose of determining insurance rates,
                     structures for which the "startStart of construction"Construction commenced on or after
                     the e ective date of an initial FIRM or after December 31, 1974, whichever is later, and
                     includes any subsequent improvements to such structures. For ﬂoodplain management
                     purposes, "new constructionNew Construction" means structures for which the "startStart
                     of construction"Construction commenced on or after the e ective date of a ﬂoodplain
                     management regulation adopted by a community and includes any subsequent
                     improvements to such structures.
            NN.      NEW MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION - means a. A manufactured home
                     park or subdivision for which the construction of facilities for servicing the lots on which the
                     manufactured homes are to be a ixed (including at a minimum, the installation of utilities,
                     the construction of streets, and either ﬁnal site grading or the pouring of concrete pads) is
                     completed on or after the e ective date of ﬂoodplain management regulations adopted by
                     a community.
            OO.      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE - means a. A vehicle which is:
                     1.      built on a single chassis;
                     2.      400 square feet or less when measured at the largest horizontal projections;
                     3.      designed to be self-propelled or permanently towable by a light -duty truck; and
                     4.      designed primarily not for use as a permanent dwelling but as temporary living
                             quarters for recreational, camping, travel, or seasonal use.
            PP.      START OF CONSTRUCTION - (for other than new construction or substantial improvements
                     under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act (Pub. L. 97-348)), includes substantial
                     improvement and means the. The date the building permit was issued for a New
                     Construction, Substantial Damage, or Substantial Improvement, provided the actual start
                     of construction, repair, reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, placement, or other
                     improvement was within 180 days of the permit date. The actual start means either the ﬁrst
                     placement of permanent construction of a structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or
                     footings, the installation of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage
                     of excavation; or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation. Permanent
                     construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading and ﬁlling; nor
                     does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for
                     basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms; nor does it
                     include the installation on the property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not
                     occupied as dwelling units or not part of the main structure. For a substantial
                     improvementSubstantial Improvement, the actual start of construction means the ﬁrst
                     alteration of any wall, ceiling, ﬂoor, or other structural part of a building, whether or not that
                     alteration a ects the external dimensions of the building.
            QQ.      STRUCTURE - means a. A walled and roofed building, including a gas or liquid storage tank,
                     that is principally above ground, as well as a manufactured home.
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            RR.      SUBSTANTIAL DAMAGE - means damage. Damage of any origin sustained by a structure
                     whereby the cost of restoring the structure to its before damaged condition would equal or
                     exceed 50 percent of the marketassessed value of the structure before the damage
                     occurred. This term also applies to structures which have incurred any damage that equals
                     or exceeds 50 percent of the structure’s assessed value regardless of the actual repair work
                     performed.
                     At the City’s discretion, they may track the cumulative damages for a structure over the
                     course of time and when the cumulative damages exceed 50 percent of the structure’s
                     assessed value, regardless of the actual repair work performed, the structure may be
                     deﬁned as Substantially Damaged.
                     When a structure or building has been determined as Substantially Damaged, any work or
                     repair on said structure or building will be considered as Substantial Improvement and will
                     be required to meet the development requirements set forth within this ordinance for
                     Substantial Improvement.
            SS.      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT - means any. Any reconstruction, rehabilitation, addition, or
                     other improvement of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50 percent of the
                     marketassessed value of the structure (not of the structure and land value combined)
                     before "startStart of construction"Construction of the improvement. This includes
                     structures which have incurred "substantial damage",Substantial Damage, regardless of
                     the actual repair work performed. The term does not, however, include either:
                     1.      Any project for improvement of a structure to correct existing violations of state or
                             local health, sanitary, or safety code speciﬁcations which have been identiﬁed by
                             the local code enforcement o icial and which are the minimum necessary
                             conditions; or
                     2.      Any alteration of a "historic structure",Historic Structure, provided that the
                             alteration will not preclude the structure's continued designation as a "historic
                             structure."Historic Structure.
                     VARIANCE - is a grant of relief to a person from the requirement of this ordinance when
                     specific enforcement would result in unnecessary hardship. A variance, therefore, permits
                     construction or development in a manner otherwise prohibited by this ordinance. (For full
                     requirements see Section 60.6 of the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.).
             TT.     VIOLATION - means the. The failure of a structure or other development to be fully
                     compliant with the community's ﬂoodplain management regulations. A structure or other
                     development without the elevation certiﬁcate, other certiﬁcations, or other evidence of
                     compliance required in Section44 C.F.R. § 60.3(b)(5), (c)(4), (c)(10), (d)(3), (e)(2), (e)(4), or
                     (e)(5) is presumed to be in violation until such time as that documentation is provided.
             UU.     WATER SURFACE ELEVATION - means the. The height, in relation to the National
                     GeodeticNorth American Vertical Datum (NGVDNAVD) of 19291988 (or other datum, where
                     speciﬁed), of ﬂoods of various magnitudes and frequencies in the ﬂoodplains of coastal or
                     riverine areas.
