Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            ORDINANCE 2026-05

               AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 2, CHAPTER 4, SECTION 11 OF THE PARK
               CITY CODE, RELATED TO THE RESPONSIBILITIES AND AUTHORITY OF THE
                                        CITY ENGINEER

            WHEREAS, in order to promote the efficient and beneficial use of the City’s rights-of-
            way and public thoroughfares, City Council finds the City Engineer should have
            delegated authority over certain regulation of the rights-of-way and public thoroughfares;
            and

            WHEREAS, in order to promote the efficient and beneficial use of the City’s rights-of-
            way and public thoroughfares, the City Council finds the City Engineer should be
            empowered to permit certain minor private improvements within the City right-of-way
            and public thoroughfares; and

            WHEREAS, the City Council finds good cause for amending the code to further clarify
            the City Engineer’s responsibilities and authority;

            NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Park City, Utah:

            Section 1. Section amended. Title 2, Chapter 4, Section 11 of the Park City Code is
            hereby amended to read:

                     2-4-11 City Engineer
                     There is hereby created and established the office of City Engineer for the
                     purpose of providing the necessary engineering services required by the City.
                     The City Engineer shall be responsible for coordinating, reviewing, supervising,
                     and accepting construction work in rights-of-way and public thoroughfares. The
                     City Engineer may permit these minor private improvements, which do not
                     negatively impact the intended use of rights-of-way or public thoroughfares:,
                     including mailboxes,; driveways,; sidewalks,; radiant heating,; landscaping,;
                     fences; signage and awnings otherwise in conformance with this Code;
                     improvements required to promote life safety,; improvements necessary to
                     provide property access, ensure slope stability, drainage protection, or allow
                     maintenance,; improvements that are designated Historic in accordance with
                     procedures contained in Land Management Code Chapter 15-11,; and minor
                     deviations from previously approved encroachments. The City Engineer shall be
                     appointed by the City Manager and shall be an employee of the City. The City
                     Engineer shall be appointed on the basis of administrative and technical
                     qualifications with special reference to actual experience or knowledge of the
                     functions and duties of the office as set forth in this article.

            Section 2. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.
Docusign Envelope ID: 8C2FFB02-003F-4DCF-8EA8-3F1AC3D62A4D




            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 9th day of April, 2026.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION



                                                             ____
                                                             Mayor Ryan Dickey

            Attest:



            City Recorder

            Approved as to form:




            City Attorney’s Office
