Docusign Envelope ID: 4EA689F1-B916-8229-80A6-ADB1C2AD5927




            Ordinance No. 2026-07

            AN ORDINANCE AMENDING PARK CITY CODE SECTIONS 4-1-1, LICENSING
            DEFINITIONS; AND 4-3-1, GENERAL APPLICATION PROCESS - LICENSE
            APPLICATION; AND ENACTING SECTIONS 4-2-16 AND 6-1-14 TO ADD WASTE
            HAULER AND GENERATOR REQUIREMENTS

            WHEREAS, Park City is committed to environmental stewardship, the preservation of its
            natural surroundings, and the promotion of a sustainable local economy for the benefit
            of residents and visitors; and

            WHEREAS, the City Council finds that reducing the total amount of solid waste
            generated and landfilled is a matter of significant public interest, directly impacting
            public health, environmental quality, and the operational longevity of regional landfill
            facilities; and

            WHEREAS, valuable materials are landfilled that can otherwise be used to create new
            products instead of harvesting virgin materials; and

            WHEREAS, the Summit County Solid Waste Master Plan has identified that a
            significant portion of materials currently being sent to the landfill are recyclable or
            otherwise divertible, and has established goals to increase recycling rates county-wide;
            and

            WHEREAS, the commercial business sector, including retail, hospitality, restaurant, and
            other service industries, is a primary generator of solid waste within Park City and
            presents a substantial opportunity for increased waste diversion through improved
            recycling and waste management practices; and

            WHEREAS, a standardized approach to commercial waste management is necessary
            to reduce waste, and voluntary measures alone have been insufficient to capture the full
            potential for recycling and landfill diversion in the commercial sector; and

            WHEREAS, non-standardized labeling for consumer-facing recycling bins leads to
            contamination and confusion. Guidelines, templates and best practices for recycling will
            be available from the City; and

            WHEREAS, requiring commercial waste generators to create a waste plan, including
            proof of services with authorized haulers for both trash and recycling, is a reasonable
            and necessary step to ensure that all businesses actively participate in and plan for
            effective waste reduction and landfill diversion; and
Docusign Envelope ID: 4EA689F1-B916-8229-80A6-ADB1C2AD5927




            WHEREAS, the regular reporting of waste data, including amounts hauled, is critical for
            the City to accurately track progress toward diversion goals, identify areas for
            improvement, and formulate effective waste management policies; and

            WHEREAS, the implementation of a fair and consistent enforcement mechanism is a
            necessary component of this ordinance to address non-compliance, deter poor
            recycling behaviors such as contamination, and ensure that all parties subject to this
            ordinance are held to the same standards; and

            WHEREAS, the City Council finds that the regulations set forth in this ordinance are a
            logical and necessary extension of the City’s existing environmental programs and are
            vital to creating a more sustainable and resilient community.

            BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF PARK CITY, UTAH, THAT:

            Sections 4-1-1 and 4-3-1 of the Park City Code are amended and Sections 4-2-16 and
            6-1-14 are enacted to read as outlined in Exhibit A. The amendments to Section 4-1-1
            and Section 6-1-14 shall become effective July 1, 2026, and Section 4-2-16 and the
            amendments to section 4-3-1 shall become effective upon business license renewal or
            application starting September 1, 2026.

            PASSED AND ADOPTED this 21st day of May, 2026.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION


                                                                                              _
                                                             Mayor Ryan Dickey
            Attest:


                                       ____
            Michelle Kellogg, City Recorder

            Approved as to form:



            City Attorney’s Office
Docusign Envelope ID: 4EA689F1-B916-8229-80A6-ADB1C2AD5927




            Exhibit A



            Park City Municipal Code

            Title 4: Licensing

            4-1-1: Definitions

            ....

            WASTE PLAN. A plan for trash and Recycling, as defined in Section 6-1-14, that
            includes the requirements in section 4-2-16.

            WASTE GENERATOR. A business that produces waste from a physical address in
            Park City. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a home-based business that exclusively uses
            the Summit County residential curb-side service is not a Waste Generator for purposes
            of this Code.

            ....

            4-2-16 Waste Generator Requirements.

            All Waste Generators must separate trash and Recycling for disposal and have active
            trash and Recycling accounts with Authorized Haulers and/or be Self-Haulers, as
            defined in Section 6-1-14.

                 A. Waste Generators must create a Waste Plan for both trash and Recycling that
                    includes:
                        1. Accounts with and names of Authorized Haulers, master associations,
                           landlords, or Self Hauler information, including information about all trash
                           and Recycling Waste Hauling Service, as defined in 6-1-14, providers and
                           frequency of services.
                        2. A designated area or designated areas for trash and Recycling, that are
                           accessible for pick up by an Authorized Hauler. All trash and Recycling
                           shall be placed for collection in covered collection containers conforming
                           to the requirements in Section 6-1-14.

                 B. If a Waste Generator chooses to be a Self-Hauler, it must register as an
                    Authorized Hauler pursuant to Section 6-1-14.

                 C. Waste Generators must have properly labeled trash and Recycling containers.
Docusign Envelope ID: 4EA689F1-B916-8229-80A6-ADB1C2AD5927




                 D. Waste Generators must ensure that trash and Recycling service agreements and
                    Waste Plans are available on reasonable notice of two weeks for inspection by
                    the City at the principal location of the Waste Generator during normal business
                    hours.



            4-3-1 License Application

                 A. Application With Inspection. All Business license applications with a physical
                    location within City limits require a passed Business License Inspection from the
                    Building Department to ensure life safety standards, proper measurements for
                    fee calculation, and Code compliance.

                         1. A Business License Inspection will only be scheduled if:
                                a. A Certificate of Occupancy has been issued by the Building
                                   Department;
                                b. A Letter of Completion has been issued by the Building
                                   Department; or
                                c. There is already an existing licensed Business occupying the space
                                   and a building permit is not required to accommodate the new
                                   Business.
                         2. Applications for Business licenses shall be made in writing to the Finance
                            Manager Business Licensing or his/her designee. Each application shall
                            include the:
                                a. Name of the applicant and DBA, if applicable;
                                b. Location and contact information of the Business;
                                c. Date of application;
                                d. Payment of the applicable License Fee and tax, based on the
                                   information recorded on the Business License Inspection or
                                   previous Business License at that location if within the HRC or HCB
                                   Districts as defined in the Land Management Code; or estimated
                                   amount if undergoing significant construction or tenant
                                   improvements;
                                e. Name and contact information of the local Business agent who is
                                   authorized to receive service of process and any communication
                                   regarding applicant's license, if applicable;
                                f. Federal entity identification number;
                                g. State sales tax reporting number, if applicable;
                                h. Copy of the Business License Inspection report showing passed;
                                i. State contractor's license number, if applicable;
                                j. State real estate broker's license number, if applicable;
Docusign Envelope ID: 4EA689F1-B916-8229-80A6-ADB1C2AD5927




                                  k. A Waste Generator must provide at least one of the following for
                                  both trash and Recycling:

                                         i.   Account information with an Authorized Hauler or Authorized
                                              Haulers as defined in Section 6-1-14 and required in Section
                                              4-2-16, including business account numbers;
                                        ii.   A letter from a business HOA, property manager, or other
                                              collective entity that lists all Authorized Haulers serving the
                                              entity and demonstrates that the Waste Generator can use
                                              the entity’s trash and/or Recycling facilities serviced by
                                              Authorized Haulers, as applicable and as defined in Section
                                              6-1-14; or
                                       iii.   Certification of compliance with Authorized Hauler
                                              requirements for trash and Recycling as a Self-Hauler.

                                  l. Other information, as needed, for the purpose of guidance of the
                                  Finance Manager in issuing the license.

                 B. Applications Without an Inspection. If the Business is a Conventional Chain
                    Business located within a Storefront Property in the HRC or HCB Districts, the
                    applicant may apply for a Business license without an inspection only if the
                    applicant provides a letter of intent agreement between the landlord and tenant
                    with monetary or other proprietary terms redacted if necessary.
                        1. The applicant will be notified in writing within ten business days of
                           affirmation or denial of the application.
                        2. Within one hundred and twenty (120) days from the day of application a
                           signed lease or memorandum of lease must be submitted to Finance with
                           monetary or other proprietary terms redacted if necessary or the
                           application shall be denied.
                        3. The Business license application will be denied after 180 days from
                           application unless the applicant has submitted and paid for a building
                           permit.
                        4. The Business license application shall be deemed denied if it is pending
                           more than twenty-four (24) months from application date.
                        5. Any denial can be appealed pursuant to Section 4-3-15.
                        6. Prior to the license being issued, the applicant must provide a Passed
                           Business License Inspection report to the Finance Department. The
                           Finance Department will recalculate the License Fees based on the final
                           Square Footage and either issue a refund or collect additional fees and
                           issue the License.
                 C. Subsequent Changes. Any change in the above information furnished by the
                    applicant shall be forwarded in writing, within ten (10) days of the change, to the
Docusign Envelope ID: 4EA689F1-B916-8229-80A6-ADB1C2AD5927




                     Finance Manager or his/her designee. License application forms shall be
                     prepared and kept on file by the Finance Department.



            HISTORY
            Repealed & Reenacted by Ord. 2017-51 on 10/5/2017
            Amended by Ord. 2017-56 on 10/24/2017
            Amended by Ord. 2019-17 on 4/18/2019
Docusign Envelope ID: 4EA689F1-B916-8229-80A6-ADB1C2AD5927




            Title 6 Health; Nuisance Abatement; Noise

            Chapter 1 Abatement of Garbage and Other Deleterious Material

            Section 6-1-14: Authorized Hauler Requirements

                 A. Definitions.
                       1. AUTHORIZED HAULER. Any waste hauler who has registered and been
                           approved by the City to provide Self-Hauler or Waste Hauling Services within
                           City boundaries.
                       2. MATERIAL RECOVERY. The process of collecting, sorting, and reprocessing
                           waste materials, including Recycling. It diverts waste from landfills and
                           reduces reliance on raw resources.
                       3. RECYCLING. Any waste stream capable of being separated for material
                           recovery and not sent to a landfill, including cardboard, glass, metals,
                           plastic, green waste, and food waste.
                       4. SELF-HAULER. A Waste Generator, as defined in Section 4-1-1, that hauls its
                           own trash or Recycling and does not provide Waste Hauling Services as a
                           primary business function.
                       5. WASTE HAULING SERVICES. Businesses that collect, transport, and
                           dispose of trash or Recycling as a primary business function.

                 B. Waste Hauler Authorization Requirements. Only Authorized Haulers may provide
                    Waste Hauling Services within City boundaries. If a Waste Generator, as defined in
                    Section 4-1-1, is a Self Hauler, it must be registered as an Authorized Hauler.
                       1. Authorized Haulers must:
                           a. Register with and receive approval from the Sustainability Department.
                           b. Deliver materials that have been separated for Recycling to facilities that
                              divert more than fifty percent, by weight, of incoming material from a
                              landfill.
                           c. Maintain copies of service agreements or receipts that show proper
                              delivery of diverted items to appropriate facilities. Such documents must
                              be available for inspection by the City at the Authorized Hauler’s place of
                              business during normal business hours and must be maintained for not
                              less than three years.
                           d. Collect trash and Recycling from customers within the City in a timely
                              manner that maintains a clean environment.
                           e. Provide containers and collection methods for trash and Recycling, as
                              applicable, that comply with Park City Code Chapter 6-1 and Summit
                              County health regulations.
                           f. Provide appropriate signage for all containers that clearly identifies which
                              containers are serviced by the Authorized Hauler and what materials go
Docusign Envelope ID: 4EA689F1-B916-8229-80A6-ADB1C2AD5927




                                in each container. Signage shall be aligned with City guidance to promote
                                best practices for reducing contamination and improving diversion rates.
                            g. Provide annual reports for the preceding calendar year by March 1 to the
                                Sustainability Department identifying, at a minimum, the following
                                information:
                                (1) The total monthly volumes or weights of trash and Recycling hauled
                                     during the previous year, the names and locations of the facilities
                                     where the materials were hauled to, and the percentage of total
                                     material received by the Recycling facilities reported to be diverted
                                     from a solid waste landfill or incinerator.
                                (2) Information about noncompliance by Waste Generators, including
                                     contamination and approximate amount of material disposed of as
                                     refuse because of contamination.
                         2. Upon request, Authorized Haulers shall provide to the City a list of names
                            and addresses of customers and services provided and any additional
                            information required to determine compliance with this Chapter and to
                            calculate waste diversion data for Park City.
                         3. Authorized Haulers may assess a contamination fee to businesses it hauls
                            for if contamination becomes an issue that causes sorted materials to be
                            taken to the landfill.
                         4. Failure to comply with any of these requirements may lead to revocation of
                            Authorized Hauler status. Past non-compliance will be grounds for denial of
                            Authorized Hauler status.

                 C. Enforcement. The Chief Building Official or their designee(s) shall have the primary
                    responsibility for enforcement of this Section. If the Chief Building Official
                    determines that a violation of this Section has occurred, they shall issue a written
                    warning to the Authorized Hauler that a violation has occurred. Subsequent
                    violations of this Section shall be subject to a civil fee of five hundred dollars.
