Docusign Envelope ID: 8F920923-6DE2-8999-8011-071E4F330087




             ORDINANCE 2026-16

             AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 2, CHAPTER 8, SECTION 18 OF THE PARK
             CITY CODE, RELATED TO THE NEIGHBORHOODS FIRST STREETS COMMITTEE

             WHEREAS, the City desires to utilize traffic control strategies to maintain or improve
             safety for all users, reduce traffic speeds, maintain accessibility for emergency services,
             and deter arterial traffic volumes from using residential collectors/local roads as bypass
             routes; and

             WHEREAS, the City wishes to implement neighborhood traffic calming by proactively
             working with residents to identify traffic-calming solutions by applying a combination of
             education, enforcement, evaluation, and engineering improvements; and

             WHEREAS, the City Council finds good cause for amending the code to revise a
             representative position tied to a job title that no longer exists; and

             WHEREAS, the City Council finds good cause for amending the code to provide
             flexibility in ensuring that if a primary representative is unable to attend a meeting that
             that department or organization’s perspective and area of technical expertise will still be
             represented in the review and evaluation of requests;

             NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the City Council of Park City, Utah:

             Section 1. Section amended. Title 2, Chapter 8, Section 18 of the Park City Code is
             hereby amended to read:

                 2-8-18 Neighborhoods First - Streets Committee
                 A. Purpose and Authority. The Neighborhoods First - Streets Committee
                    implements portions of the Neighborhoods First - Streets Program, which aims to
                    enhance neighborhood livability and safety by reducing speeding traffic with
                    traffic calming solutions. By measuring the impacts of these solutions with the
                    help of clear evidence and documented processes, the Neighborhoods First -
                    Streets Committee works to improve compliance with posted speed limits, stop
                    signs, and other traffic control devices.
                 B. Organization.
                        1. The Neighborhoods First - Streets Committee will be made up of a
                             representative from each of the following:
                                a. The Park City Engineering Department,
                                b. The Park City Police Department,
                                c. The Park City Public Works Department,
                                d. The Park City Fire Department,
                                e. The Park City Transportation Department,
                                f. A Park City Resident Advocate Designee,
                                g. A Park City Resident, and
                                h. Summit County Government Representative.
Docusign Envelope ID: 8F920923-6DE2-8999-8011-071E4F330087




                        2. Each position will be filled by a designated voting representative and may
                           also have a designated alternate representative to vote in the primary
                           representative’s absence.
                 C. Selection Process. All of the representatives will be selected by the department
                    or organization they are representing except the Park City Resident Advocate
                    Designee will be selected by the City Manager and the Park City Resident will be
                    appointed by the Mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council.

             Section 2. Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon publication.

             PASSED AND ADOPTED this 25th day of June, 2026.

                                                             PARK CITY MUNICIPAL CORPORATION



                                                             Mayor Ryan Dickey

             Attest:



             City Recorder

             Approved as to form:



             City Attorney’s Office
