> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-03-03
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 1 
 
The City Council met in Work Session on Tuesday, March 3, 2020, in 
Room 326, Committee Room, City County Building, 451 South State 
Street. 
 In Attendance: Council Members Chris Wharton, James Rogers, Andrew 
Johnston, Amy Fowler, Analia Valdemoros, Daniel Dugan, and Darin 
Mano. 
 Staff in Attendance: Jennifer Bruno, Council Executive Deputy 
Director; Erin Mendenhall, Mayor; Rachel Otto, Mayor’s Chief of 
Staff; Katherine Lewis, City Attorney; Allison Rowland, Council 
Public Policy Analyst; Nick Norris, Planning Director; Brian 
Fullmer, Council Policy Analyst; Samuel Owen, Council Policy 
Analyst; Kira Luke, Council Policy Analyst; David Gellner, 
Principal Planner; Molly Robinson, Planning Manager; Mayara Lima, 
Principal Planner; John Anderson, Planning Manager; Nancy 
Monteith, Parks Department Landscape Architect; Kristin Riker, 
Public Lands Deputy Director; Vicki Bennett, Sustainability 
Director; Megan DePaulis, Senior City Attorney; Debbie Lyons, 
Sustainability Deputy Director, Kimberly Chytraus, Senior City 
Attorney; Lewis Kogan, Trails and Natural Lands Division Manager; 
Lehua Weaver, Council Associate Deputy Director; Marcia White, 
Community and Neighborhoods Director; Shellie Finan, Real Property 
Manager; Daniel Rip, Housing Policy and Program Manager; Robert 
Nutzman, Council Administrative Assistant; Allison Parks, Senior 
City Attorney, Lynn Pace, Mayor’s Senior Advisor for 
Intergovernmental Affairs; Benjamin Luedtke, Council Policy 
Analyst, Lisa Shaffer, Mayor’s Deputy Chief of Staff, Jennifer 
McGrath, Community and Neighborhoods Deputy Director; and Scott 
Crandall, Deputy City Recorder. 
 Guests in Attendance: Mary Warner Demuri, Project Architect (Item 
2); Kathia Dang, Applicant (Item 2); Kevin Collotzi, Applicant 
(Item 3); and Rusty Ballo, Applicant Representative (Item 4). 
 
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and conducted the meeting. 
 
The meeting was called to order at 2:05 p.m. 
 AGENDA ITEMS 
 #1. 2:06:01 PM RECEIVE A FOLLOW-UP BRIEFING ABOUT AN ORDINANCE RELATING TO EARLY NOTIFICATION OF THE PUBLIC AND RECOGNIZED COMMUNITY ORGANIZATIONS FOR LAND USE PROJECTS PURSUANT TO PETITION NO. PLNPCM2016-00300. The Council initiated this petition to

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 2 
 
clarify early notification regulations and public outreach. The 
purpose of the proposed changes is to increase awareness and 
participation by the public for various types of City projects 
while still providing a timely review process for applicants. View Attachments 
 John Anderson, Nick Norris, and Allison Parks briefed the 
Council with attachments. Mr. Norris provided background 
information about the proposal including minor changes needed to 
provide clarity/consistency, proposal intended to clarify early 
notification regulations for public outreach, increasing 
awareness/participation for City projects (posting sign on 
subject’s property), improving efforts in mailing accuracy, 
clarifying outreach events, modifying public hearing process, 
managing Staff time/resources with outreach efforts, potential for 
developers to attend Community Council meetings, receiving 800 
applications per year, general public’s ability to access project 
information, specific projects having their own City webpage, 
utilizing Citizens Access Portal/Accela, Planning’s webpage having 
a “pending projects list” for public access, and how citizens could 
more easily get information about projects in their community 
(promote involvement). 
 
Councilmember Mano said his district contained a number of 
overlapping Community Council organizations and expressed concern 
that some residents might not receive notification because they 
did not attend additional outreach events. 
 
Mr. Norris said Planning needed to create a "best 
practice"/internal policy to direct Staff when dealing with 
applications requiring notification within 600-feet. 
 
Councilmember Fowler talked about the potential to add a full-
time community outreach person to work exclusively on community 
engagement/outreach efforts for Planning. Ms. Bruno said Staff 
could follow-up with Community Engagement (part of Community and 
Neighborhoods Department) to gauge current strategies they were 
using with Planning and determine if there was room for 
bandwidth/expansion. 
 
Further discussion was held on the Council’s interest in 
finding more efficient/effective ways for citizens to access 
information about applications/projects. Mr. Norris said some 
online programs available to the public included “Citizens Access 
Portal/Accela” (applications, drawings, maps, etc.), separate

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 3 
 
webpage for large/complicated projects (providing continual 
updates), and a “pending projects list” (providing details, 
status, etc.). He further talked about an online “active project 
map” which, when first implemented, was the best/easiest way to 
find information (real-time map with links to all active 
applications City-wide). He said the program also had a direct 
link to the “Citizens Access Portal”, however; the site was 
currently experiencing technical issues which needed to be fixed. 
Councilmember Johnston said he was interested in pursuing 
that concept and providing any necessary funding. He wanted the 
Administration to get the program running properly and use that as 
a platform to move forward. 
 #2. 2:24:17 PM RECEIVE A FOLLOW-UP BRIEFING ABOUT AN ORDINANCE THAT WOULD REZONE THE PARCELS LOCATED AT 402 AND 416 EAST 900 SOUTH TO REZONE THOSE PARCELS FROM RB (RESIDENTIAL/BUSINESS DISTRICT) AND CN (NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL DISTRICT) TO CB (COMMUNITY BUSINESS DISTRICT) PURSUANT TO PETITION NO. PLNPCM2018-01025. 
Currently, these parcels fall within two different zoning 
districts and the parcel at 416 East Street is split zoned both RB 
and CN. The applicants would like to rezone to one zone for 
consistency. No development plans have been submitted at this time. View Attachments 
 
 Nick Norris, Molly Robinson, Mary Warner Demuri, and Kathia Dang briefed the Council with attachments. Ms. Robinson provided 
an overview of the proposal. Comments included Southeast Asian 
Market property having split-zoning, impact of side/rear setbacks 
on corner lot zoned CN, RB zone intended to maintain some 
residential characteristics, largest concentration of RB zoned 
properties being located on 1100 East, potential impacts of 
height/setbacks/parking requirements on surrounding properties, 
parcel size exceeding maximum allowed for CN and RB zones, and 
concern about blocking Grays Court. 
 
Council Members expressed concerns about how future 
development could impact surrounding properties regarding height, 
setbacks, parking, etc. (based on how buildings were oriented on 
property). 
 
2:35:03 PM Ms. Dang and Ms. Demuri provided more details about 
the proposal. Comments included intent to rectify split-zone 
issues prohibiting development of the property, changes needing to 
occur (primary goal to get answers about the property), supporting 
small business ownership, conceptual plans/design (long process to

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 4 
 
achieve a final proposal), parcel being 30,000 square feet (found 
in more CN and RB zones), landscape buffer/setback (required when 
property in a commercial zone abuts a Residential R1 zone), patios 
being allowed in CN zone, wanting something meaningful to bring 
the community together, transparency (open dialog with concerned 
residents/avoid negative impacts to neighborhood), and desire to 
follow City recommendations/plan. 
 
Discussion was held about potential ways to adopt the proposal 
subject to having/requiring frontage on 900 South (potential for 
development agreement or including requirements in the ordinance 
itself). Ms. Bruno said Staff could work with the Attorney’s Office 
to explore options. 
 
Further discussion was held about potential zoning code 
reform. Mr. Norris said the code did not focus on issues that 
mattered and felt it needed to be fixed. He said the City was 
uniquely positioned, given adequate time, to do so in a way which 
reflected community issues/concerns (must be done in the right 
way). Councilmember Wharton said he wanted to have that discussion 
and asked Staff to make a note for future follow-up (other Council 
Members expressed interest). 
 
Councilmember Wharton said a public hearing would be 
scheduled. 
 #3. 2:52:48 PM RECEIVE A BRIEFING ABOUT AN ORDINANCE THAT WOULD REZONE PROPERTY AT 2064 NORTH AND 2066 NORTH 2200 WEST FROM AG-2 (AGRICULTURAL) TO M-1 (LIGHT MANUFACTURING) PETITION NO. PLNPCM-2019-00431. The applicant is requesting the rezone to accommodate 
future development of the property and implement the area master 
plan zoning. No site development proposal has been submitted at 
this time. View Attachments 
 David Gellner, Brian Fullmer, Molly Robinson, and Kevin Collotzi briefed the Council with attachments. Mr. Gellner 
provided background information about the proposal. Comments 
included parcel being 2.8 acres, no specific site development plan 
being submitted with application, property being within the Inland 
Port boundary, secondary property access, and positive Planning 
Commission recommendation. 
 
Mr. Collotzi, applicant, provided further details about the 
proposal. He said adjusting the setbacks would allow the adjoining 
property owner to locate their development closer to his property.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 5 
 
Councilmember Wharton said a public hearing would be 
scheduled. 
 #4. 2:58:57 PM RECEIVE A BRIEFING ABOUT A PROPOSAL TO CLOSE A CITY-OWNED ALLEY LOCATED AT APPROXIMATELY 1040 SOUTH WASHINGTON STREET PURSUANT TO PETITION NO. PLNPCM2019-00400. The alley is 15 
feet wide and approximately 253 feet long. It runs west of 
Washington Street toward an abandoned Utah Transit Authority (UTA) 
railroad line, where it becomes a dead end before reaching 300 
West Street. The proposal would allow the petitioner to incorporate 
it into the seven of eight adjacent properties they own. View Attachments 
 Mayara Lima, Brian Fuller, John Anderson, and Rusty Ballo 
briefed the Council with attachments. Ms. Lima provided details 
about the proposal which included City-owned alleys, surrounding 
properties being zoned General Commercial (CG), permitted uses, 
owner intending to sell combined properties for future 
development, alleyway being completely fenced off, and Property 
No. 1026 not being owned by petitioner. 
 
Councilmember Mano expressed interest in having a policy 
discussion with the Administration regarding alley dispositions 
(see Staff report). He said there was potential for alleyways to 
provide public connections in mixed-use developments and careful 
consideration was needed before permanently closing them. 
 
3:06:41 PM Mr. Ballo said he worked with the applicant and 
provided further details about the proposal which included ongoing 
criminal activity, adjacent businesses (uniform cleaning business 
and Volunteers of America (VOA), vacant buildings, property being 
on the market, access issues, and intent to sell property for 
housing development. 
 
Councilmember Wharton said a public hearing would be 
scheduled. 
 #5. 3:08:58 PM RECEIVE A BRIEFING ABOUT THE DRAFT SALT LAKE CITY PUBLIC LANDS NEEDS ASSESSMENT. This assessment is the first step 
toward creating a new Comprehensive Public Lands Master Plan for 
the Parks, Trails and Natural Lands and Urban Forestry Divisions. View Attachments 
 Allison Rowland, Nancy Monteith, and Kristin Riker briefed 
the Council with attachments. Ms. Rowland said the Staff report

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 6 
 
contained policy questions/issues for Council consideration 
including timeline, geographic participant distribution, 
equity/population size, funding needs, park rangers, golf/open 
space, and new park types. Ms. Riker provided further details about 
the proposal which included proposal being first public lands 
assessment, population growing faster than anticipated, 
statistically valid 2017 survey, 81% of residents believing the 
City provided adequate parks/recreation services, potential for 
increased conflicts as more people utilized parks, City needing to 
plan for growth (impact on existing service levels), walkability 
goals (proximity to parks/trails/open space), utilizing assessment 
data to develop a comprehensive master plan, robust community 
outreach (Open City Hall, workshops, events, surveys, and 
stakeholder meetings), evaluation of existing inventory, varying 
maintenance levels for different categories of open space (700 
acres of developed parks/300 acres of manicured landscapes). 
 
Further comments included utilizing different Levels of 
Service (LOS) metrics for budgeting, impact fee growth 
assessments, comparison to other cities, City needing to decide 
appropriate LOS per resident (currently 3.5 acres per 1,000 
residents), analyzing acreage-per-planning-area, difficulty 
acquiring large parcels of land for green space, distribution of 
park amenities City-wide, high-quality amenities needed, asset 
condition assessment (every park amenity receiving a rating), 
capital investments (long-term analysis), community 
values/desires, priority improvements requested by residents 
(restrooms, maintenance, cleanliness, lighting, and safety 
features), 86% of residents expressing willingness to pay more for 
parks, desire for new uses, where future improvements/new 
facilities should be targeted, closing walkability gap, issues to 
consider in upcoming master plan (improving existing parks/natural 
lands, creating a more equitable/connected park system, adding new 
services to meet growing demand, creating an action plan), 
differences between mini-parks/community parks/regional parks, and 
evaluating under-utilized parks. 
 
Ms. Riker said Public Lands had contracted with a consultant 
to utilize data (gathered in this report) to begin a comprehensive 
master plan process. She said the final plan would represent an 
effort to ensure the City’s needs aligned with park system 
offerings, parks being equitably accessible, and planning for the 
next ten years as the City continued to grow. She said they hoped 
to work with the Council, Mayor’s Office, stakeholders, and general 
public to complete this project.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 7 
 
Councilmember Rogers talked about the Westside not having a 
destination park like other parts of the City (unfair to put 
Regional Athletic Park in statistics because of pay-to-play). 
 
Further Council comments/concerns about the proposal included 
ratio/types of amenities varying between parks (some parks having 
many amenities while others having very few), challenges 
associated with creating spaces/amenities desired by different 
communities/residents (find appropriate LOS metric), evaluating 
under-utilized spaces (identify what changes were needed), 
difficulty in identifying/securing funding for existing parks 
(impact fee statutes), new parks/spaces creating more maintenance 
issues, areas of the City lacking parks due to expensive land 
costs, creating community partnerships (community driven effort), 
holistic overview of all parks/spaces (funding, management, 
including Fleet Block, etc., all options on table), current funding 
plans being inadequate, funding additional studies, making 
Washington Square/Library a downtown park, open space uses 
continually evolving, alternative funding options available 
nationally, and requiring park space as part of future 
developments. 
 
Councilmember Johnston said during the budget cycle, he 
wanted to include funding to identify ways the Council could better 
assist the Parks Department in managing valuable public amenities 
(encourage community investment in public parks/open space). 
 
Councilmember Rogers talked about Portland having a Revolving 
General Obligation Bond for their parks program which 
automatically renewed every five-ten years. He expressed interest 
in looking at that type of funding stream to address changing needs 
as the City continued to grow (look at highest/best use). 
 #6. 3:49:02 PM RECEIVE AN UPDATE FROM THE CITY’S SUSTAINABILITY DEPARTMENT ABOUT MAJOR PROJECTS CURRENTLY UNDERWAY OR SCHEDULED TO BEGIN DURING FISCAL YEAR 2019-2020. View Attachments 
 Vicki Bennett, Debbie Lyons, and Samuel Owen briefed the 
Council with attachments. Ms. Bennett provided an overview of the 
proposal which included solar procurement (timeline), renewable 
energy service contract with Rocky Mountain Power (RMP), solar 
farm development, concern with proposed rate drop (amount RMP paid 
the City), net-metering program concerns, resolution for 100% 
renewable goal by 2030 (passed by 23 Utah cities/counties), and

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 8 
 
program elements included in application (being submitted to the 
Public Services Commission (PSC) next year). 
 
Ms. Bennett provided further details about the timeline 
including Governance/Utility agreements (adopting final governance 
agreement by August 2020), low-income plans, providing an opt-out 
option, potential ordinance language, rate design/projections, 
creating mechanism for participants to reach a single joint 
decision, how costs would be shared among communities, capping 
program rates, each community filing a plan to address low-income 
programs/assistance, outreach, engagement, and affordable housing. 
 
Further discussion was held on electrified transportation 
(public electric vehicle (EV) charging network), battery-backup 
opportunities, potential options for backup generators at City 
facilities, and Utah Climate Action Network (UCAN) 
program/funding. Councilmember Rogers requested information about 
usage of City charging stations. Ms. Bennett said she would provide 
the information. 
 
4:06:40 PM Ms. Lyons provided an overview of the following food 
projects outlined in the attachment: Resident Equity Advisors - 
$50,000 (two-year pilot program), Food/Economy/Equity Study - 
$65,000 (leverage existing data to evaluate current food system), 
and Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) - $15,000 
(Farmer Markets/farm-stand expansion). Comments included 
recommending strategies, engaging farmers to explore food 
barriers, incorporating food access in conjunction with other 
City/Master plans, equipment upgrade requirements (federal), 
leveraging resources, and community food assessment. Ms. Lyons 
said the status on these programs would be included in the next 
“Quarterly Update”. 
 
Councilmember Rogers requested information about 
efforts/assessment from Sustainability and Community and 
Neighborhoods (CAN) in addressing “Food Deserts” in the City 
(geographical areas lacking sufficient supply of fresh vegetables, 
fruits, and healthy affordable whole foods). He said a 500-unit 
apartment complex was being developed on Redwood Road/North Temple 
(no grocery stores within 1-3 miles). Councilmember Johnston 
expressed interest in exploring options to spend funding in ways 
that would result in tangible benefits, which in turn could be 
used as a starting point for continued growth.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 9 
 
Council Members talked about the importance of Sustainability 
being involved in ongoing redevelopment discussions/projects to 
ensure analysis was done to address a variety of issues regarding 
“Food Deserts”. Comments included impacts of concentrating low-
income housing in certain areas of the City, lack of supermarkets, 
need for metrics to analyze success in food programs/projects, 
affordable food being associated with large markets (potential for 
incentives), and community gardens not addressing everyone’s 
needs. 
 
Note: Item 7 and 8 were heard as one briefing. 
 #7. 4:20:47 PM 4:27:57 PM RECEIVE AN OVERVIEW OF FRANCHISE AGREEMENTS FROM THE CITY ATTORNEY’S OFFICE. A franchise agreement 
is a contract between the City and a utility provider that allows 
the utility provider to use the public right-of-way. 
 Benjamin Luedtke, Kira Luke, Katherine Lewis, and Kimberly Chytraus briefed the Council. Ms. Chytraus provided background 
information about franchise agreements. Comments included allowing 
utility providers to utilize/construct improvements in the public 
right-of-way, franchise providing blanket/non-exclusive 
permission for companies to locate anywhere within the City’s 
right-of-way (locations narrowed through City’s permitting 
process), potential users (railroads, power/gas companies, 
telecommunications, cable/video, water, and sewer), process being 
provided by ordinance, cities having the right to control their 
property, requirement for a railroad franchise to be granted by 
ordinance, City ordinances being vehicle to encumber City 
property, Administration negotiating contracts within ordinance 
parameters, and City being compensated for allowing right-of-way 
usage (generally set by State – municipal sales and use tax). 
 
Further comments included small cell facilities having more 
limited fees (some providers paying per-foot), some policy 
decisions/regulations being made by federal government (equal 
treatment of service providers), City unable to prohibit 
installation of telecommunication services in the right-of-way, 
current City code providing limited direction regarding 
franchises, utilization of “form franchise agreement” containing 
generally accepted provisions, current gas franchise with Dominion 
Energy (currently being renegotiated), current Rocky Mountain 
Power franchise, Comcast franchise providing current video 
services, multiple telecommunication franchises with various 
providers, multiple railroad franchises (most being historic),

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 10 
 
recommending changes to City code, having a comprehensive 
franchise code (similar to Small Cell), updated code would contain 
many provisions currently addressed in agreement, no comprehensive 
scheme for franchises, and Federal/State restrictions. 
 
Councilmember Wharton asked what specific changes could be 
made to address code modifications (total restructure versus minor 
modifications). Ms. Chytraus said the existing ordinance was very 
short/incomplete and extensive changes were needed (would resemble 
Small Cell Wireless facilities ordinance) but would be applicable 
to general use of the City’s right-of-way. She said franchises 
were handled through current practices/agreements and not by City 
code. She said they wanted to streamline the process so the Council 
could use its time more efficiently. 
 #8. 4:34:37 PM RECEIVE A BRIEFING ABOUT AN ORDINANCE THAT WOULD GRANT A TELECOMMUNICATION FRANCHISE AGREEMENT TO TELEPORT COMMUNICATIONS AMERICA LLC. The agreement would allow the company 
to place and maintain its facilities within the City rights-of-
way. The company would be governed by certain conditions, need to 
secure appropriate permits and pay the telecommunications tax 
under state law. View Attachments Shellie Finan, Kira Luke, Katherine Lewis, and Kimberly Chytraus briefed the Council with attachments. Ms. Finan said the 
vendor's agreement expired in January 2019 and they were looking 
for a ten-year renewal. 
 
Councilmember Wharton said he received a lot of resident 
feedback about this proposal which he would pass along to the 
Administration. 
 #9. Tentative Break. 
 #10. 4:39:48 PM RECEIVE A FOLLOW-UP BRIEFING ABOUT THE DRAFT FOOTHILLS TRAIL SYSTEM MASTER PLAN. The plan aims to improve and 
create trails that are environmentally sustainable, enjoyable, 
accessible, safe, and low-maintenance. This is the first master 
plan for the Foothills Natural Area, which would cover from the 
North Salt Lake boundary, south to Emigration Canyon. A future 
plan update will address the area between Emigration and Parleys 
Canyons. View Attachments Allison Rowland and Lewis Kogan briefed the Council with 
attachments. Ms. Rowland said Councilmember Wharton requested the

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 11 
 
Administration address specific questions raised by the public as 
outlined in the attachment. Mr. Kogan summarized the 
Administration’s responses. Ms. Rowland said Council Staff reached 
out to people who provided contact information (answers sent 
directly to them). 
 
Councilmember Johnston asked about potential target/metrics 
for the number of miles intended for adaptive uses (accessibility 
for special needs groups). Mr. Kogan said three proposed sites 
would provide between 5-8 miles of adaptive trail (out of the 
hundred-mile trail system). He said when construction projects 
began and professional trail builders analyzed sites, Staff would 
get a better sense of providing/ensuring more trails were 
considered for adaptive cycles/people with disabilities. 
Councilmember Johnston requested updates (look at outcomes) as the 
Administration got deeper into the process. He said he supported 
any efforts to increase those miles as much as possible. 
 
Councilmember Wharton said the item was on the formal meeting 
agenda for consideration. 
 #11. 4:59:39 PM THE COUNCIL CONVENED A WORKING RETREAT LAST MONTH AND DISCUSSED VARIOUS PROJECTS AND ISSUES THAT COULD BE PRIORITY TOPICS TO GUIDE WORK FOR THE COMING YEAR. The Council 
will review the list of projects and identify some possible next 
steps for moving ahead with the projects. View Attachments 
 Lehua Weaver, Rachel Otto, and Mayor Mendenhall briefed the 
Council with attachments. Ms. Weaver said Staff wanted to review 
the information listed in the attachment to ensure Council Members 
comments were captured correctly. 
 
Ms. Weaver said Staff felt the following topics/areas could 
be utilized to capture/categorize Council Members items: budget, 
City assets (centralized around general facilities/parks 
development), economic development, equity issues, and quality of 
urban living. She said sub-categories included housing and 
neighborhood preservation, safety/community support issues, and 
transportation. 
 
 Discussion/review was held on Items 1-26 listed in the chart 
entitled "Notes from Council Work Session Retreat". Comments 
included potential to receive summaries from City Departments 
about their annual achievements/goals during the budget process 
(potential to collaborate with Administration to facilitate),

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 12 
 
potential ways to translate budget issues/metrics into "service 
delivery" components where residents could better understand how 
services were being provided/funded, requesting the Administration 
identify what service delivery changes citizens would notice as a 
result of a specific budget proposal, City branding/identity 
(neighborhood by neighborhood or City-wide - "Branding in a Box"), 
City rebrand project being Administrative priority (collaborative 
effort with multiple stakeholders), components of rebranding (new 
flag, neighborhood preservation, anti-displacement conversations, 
gentrification mitigation approach, establishing a technology 
corridor, place making, etc.), budget request to allocate 
resources, governance/maintenance of City assets 
(facilities/parks/real estate), utilizing long-term leases (retain 
ownership), evaluating best uses of City properties (ongoing 
conversations with Administration), how development impacted 
neighborhoods (general ordinance review), defining issues falling 
under the Council's role (policy driven questions) versus those of 
the Administration (some issues needing joint effort, avoiding 
duplication), identify specific issues for follow-up briefings, 
prioritizing planning resources with expected outcomes to 
streamline/simplify the process for those wanting to conduct 
business/interact with City (potential code revision), Council's 
willingness to allocate funding based on specific outcomes, 
special events, public markets, Economic Development Loan Funds 
(identify ways to achieve City goals), economic development 
tools/new opportunities (place making, activation ideas), Jordan 
River improvements/programming (change to combined item), 
improving City's municipal equity index rating (potential 
policy/ordinance updates - discussion with Administration), Human 
Rights Commission (strengthen/expand role - change to combined 
item), renters defense (equity issue - remove Item 13 from list, 
kept on Staff radar), Quality of Urban Living, Accessory Dwelling 
Units (ADU), Single Resident Occupancy (SRO), geographic 
distribution, alleyways discussion (City asset/explore potential 
uses), community gardens/park strips (“Food Deserts”/public 
markets), tracking/understanding City demographic changes, anti-
displacement, housing preservation (potential 
changes/affordability issues), addressing needs of vulnerable 
populations, crime/safety perception (batched with Park Ranger 
discussion, future conversations with Administration), services 
for communities needing additional support (specific populations), 
traffic calming measures (exploring creative/new options, briefing 
scheduled), scooter issues (resolution needed, forthcoming 
transmittal), long-term transit plans (City-wide connectivity, 
what would transit look like long-term, transit expansion

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 13 
 
discussions/potential for new services), Foothill traffic issues, 
equity for fees (potential creation of tiers), and Rank Choice 
Voting (RCV) issues: exploring options addressing constituent 
expectations during upcoming elections, logistics/education 
campaign, and Staff working with County election 
officials/information gathering (remove from priority list kept on 
Staff radar). 
 
 Ms. Weaver said Staff would review descriptions and work with 
the Administration to identify items for follow-up briefings 
(separate Council related items from Administrative items). She 
said Staff would come back to Council with a more detailed list. 
 #12. 5:51:31 PM RECEIVE A BRIEFING FROM THE ADMINISTRATION ABOUT ISSUES AFFECTING THE CITY THAT MAY ARISE DURING THE 2020 UTAH STATE LEGISLATIVE SESSION. 
 Lynn Pace briefed the Council about the following bills/key 
issues: 
 
• general budget issues 
• Inland Port - substitute bill (reviewed by City 
Attorney), additional bill - Senator Escamilla. 
• Redevelopment Agency (RDA) - expected to fade away. 
• housing issues - monitoring a number of bills, 
optimization for State to allocate funding toward 
affordable housing (amount and locations unknown). 
• HB462 - unlawful retainer bill - just released (City not 
having a chance to review yet). 
• homeless issues - bills pending, Senator Escamilla bill 
only one to move through Committee (rest of the bills 
stalled), probably will move quickly at end of Session. 
Mr. Pace said Staff had talking points about changes 
that were needed to each bill, four public bills needed 
to be modified for the City to be satisfied (fifth bill 
not being made public yet). 
• 700 undrafted bills, depending on how many surfaced, 
there could be a large logjam of bills, process needing 
to be watched carefully at end of Session. 
• SB150 - main transportation bill - progressing well - 
debate about whether State will pursue bonding for 
transit, Frontrunner double-track, Salt Lake County 
transportation funding (.25% sales tax - being source of 
contention)

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 14 
 
• SB150 – Class B&C Road Funds - funding being reallocated 
(potential to be incorporated in bond), ensuring City's 
interests were protected. 
• SB210 - police body cameras - carefully negotiated 
(having broad support including City) 
• HB273 - land use - League of Cities and Towns – providing 
penalties if local officials knowingly/intentionally 
violate their own ordinance or State land use laws 
(intended to control risk), League endorsing substitute 
bill as a compromise measure. 
Councilmember Wharton said he was unable to attend the 
Legislative Subcommittee meeting on Friday and wanted the Council 
to consider taking a position opposing HB449 (bill to study a 
potential ban on hormone blockers for transgender youth, not a 
City issue). Following discussion, a Straw Poll was taken to have 
the Subcommittee look at whether the City should publicly oppose 
the bill. All Council Members were in favor. Mr. Pace said he would 
contact the Bill's sponsor and get information back to Council 
Staff/Subcommittee. 
 
Councilmember Fowler expressed concerns about SB173 relating 
to enforcement/penalties for disrupting public meetings. Following 
discussion, a Straw Poll was taken for Council to oppose the bill 
and talk with the Administration about directing lobbyists to act 
against the bill. All Council Members were in favor. 
 
Mr. Pace said the remainder of the session would move quickly 
and asked Council Members to notify him immediately with 
concerns/direction. 
 #13. REPORT OF THE CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR. 
 
No discussion was held. 
 #14. 6:17:06 PM REPORT OF THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, INCLUDING A REVIEW OF COUNCIL INFORMATION ITEMS AND ANNOUNCEMENTS. The Council 
may give feedback or staff direction on any item related to City 
Council business, including but not limited to: 
• The Hibernian Society (St. Patrick's Day) Parade; 
• The 41st Giant in Our City event; 
• Joint Town Hall Meetings with Mayor Mendenhall; and 
• Scheduling Items. 
 
See File M 20-5 for announcements.

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL WORK SESSION MEETING TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020 
 
 
20 - 15 
 
#15. 6:18:47 PM CONSIDER A MOTION TO ENTER INTO CLOSED SESSION, IN KEEPING WITH UTAH CODE §52-4-205 FOR ANY ALLOWED PURPOSE. 
 
Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded 
to enter into Closed Session to discuss pending or imminent 
litigation pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-205(1)(c). A roll call vote 
was taken. Council Members Johnston, Wharton, Dugan, Valdemoros, 
Mano, Fowler, and Rogers voted aye. See File M 20-1 for Sworn 
Statement. 
 In Attendance: Council Members Johnston, Valdemoros, Wharton, 
Fowler, Dugan, Rogers, and Mano. 
 Others in Attendance: Jennifer Bruno, Lehua Weaver, Katherine 
Lewis, Benjamin Luedtke, Lisa Shaffer, Allison Rowland, Shellie 
Finan, Kristen Riker, Marcia White, Rachel Otto, Jennifer McGrath, 
Daniel Rip, Erin Mendenhall, Megan DePaulis, Robert Nutzman, and 
Scott Crandall. 
 
 The Closed Session and Work Session meetings adjourned at 
6:50 p.m. 
 
 
_______________________________ 
COUNCIL CHAIR 
 
 
_______________________________ 
CITY RECORDER 
 
 This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript 
as other items may have been discussed; please refer to the audio 
or video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203(2)(b). 
 
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the 
official minutes of the City Council Work Session meeting held 
March 3, 2020. 
 
 
Chris Wharton (Nov 9, 2021 14:41 MST)
Cindy Trishman (Nov 9, 2021 16:46 MST)

3-3-20 Work Session Minutes
Final Audit Report 2021-11-09
Created:2021-11-09
By:Thais Stewart (thais.stewart@slcgov.com)
Status:Signed
Transaction ID:CBJCHBCAABAAdtpHV4aDJsY1-J_n_n-0dskVvVaIkohg
"3-3-20 Work Session Minutes" History
Document created by Thais Stewart (thais.stewart@slcgov.com)
2021-11-09 - 3:34:43 PM GMT
Document emailed to Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-11-09 - 3:36:38 PM GMT
Email viewed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
2021-11-09 - 9:40:55 PM GMT
Document e-signed by Chris Wharton (chris.wharton@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-11-09 - 9:41:02 PM GMT - Time Source: server
Document emailed to Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com) for signature
2021-11-09 - 9:41:04 PM GMT
Document e-signed by Cindy Trishman (cindy.trishman@slcgov.com)
Signature Date: 2021-11-09 - 11:46:38 PM GMT - Time Source: server
Agreement completed.
2021-11-09 - 11:46:38 PM GMT
