> Source: (not recorded — see minutes_index.csv)
> Meeting date: 2020-03-03
> Format: ocr

---

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
 TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020
 The City Council of Salt Lake City, Utah, met in Formal Session on
 Tuesday, March 3 , 2020 in Room 315, Council Chambers, City County
 Building, 451 South State .
 The following Council Members were present :
 James Rogers Andrew Johnston Chris Wharton
 Daniel Dugan Analia Valdemoros Amy Fowler
 Darin Mano
 Erin Mendenhall, Mayor; Jennifer Bruno, Council Executive Deputy
 Director; Rachel Otto, Mayor' s Chief of Staff; Katherine Lewis, City
 Attorney; and DeeDee Robinson, Deputy City Recorder were present .
 Councilmember Wharton presided at and Councilmember Valdemoros
 conducted the meeting.
 The meeting was called to order at 7 : 03 p.m.
 OPENING CEREMONY
 #1. 7:03 :56 PM Pledge of Allegiance.
 #2 . 7:04:22 PM Welcome and Review of Standards of Conduct .
 #3 . 7:05:47 PM Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Wharton
 seconded to approve the Work Session minutes of Tuesday, January 14,
 2020 and Tuesday, February 4, 2020; the Formal Meeting minutes of
 Tuesday, February 4, 2020 and Tuesday, February 18, 2020; and the Council
 Retreat minutes from Tuesday, February 11, 2020, which motion carried,
 all members voted aye. View Minutes
 (M 20-3) (M 20-4)
 #4 . 7:06:25 PM Adopting a joint ceremonial resolution with Mayor
 Mendenhall recognizing and honoring the 100th anniversary of The League
 of Women Voters. View Attachments
 Councilmember Fowler read the resolution and presented it to The
 League of Women Voters.
 Councilmember Wharton moved and Councilmember Johnston seconded to
 adopt Resolution 3 of 2020, which motion carried, all members voted aye.
 (R 20-1)
 20 - 1

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
 TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020
 PUBLIC HEARINGS
 #1. 7:13 :13 PM Accept public comment and consider adopting an
 ordinance approving various changes to Salt Lake City Code relating to
 early notification of the public and recognized community organizations
 for land use projects pursuant to Petition No. PLNPCM2016-00300 . The
 Council initiated this petition to clarify early notification
 regulations and public outreach. The purpose of the proposed changes is
 to increase awareness and participation by the public for various types
 of City projects while still providing a timely review process for
 applicants. Related provisions of the City Code may also be amended as
 part of this petition. View Attachments
 David Thelen said that everyday people had solutions to everyday
 problems . He referenced the State of Massachusetts website and suggested
 the City should analyze their provided resources . He said he was also
 attempting to get KUED (local public television station) to produce shows
 with actors to provide informational videos on the City' s website . He
 wanted to see the City partner with grocery stores/fast food locations
 for digital signage to promote their products as well as public service
 announcements for the City.
 Judi Short thanked the Council for honoring The League of Women
 Voters and said the City was doing a great job of notifying recognized
 community organizations . She said the Land Use Committee was requesting
 two items : required signage postings for properties be placed closer to
 the sidewalk/street and that Community Councils be informed when
 community activities in their areas were posted to the City' s Facebook
 page .
 Cindy Cromer said the proposal had been delayed in reaching the
 Council, the issue of notification was the weakness in Trolley Square' s
 expansion to the south, and the repairs were almost finished with the
 ordinance and it was an example of how much effort was behind each item
 on Council agendas .
 Councilmember Rogers moved and Councilmember Fowler seconded to
 close the public hearing and defer action to a future meeting, which
 motion carried, all members voted aye.
 (P 20-4)
 #2 . 7:20:50 PM Accept public comment and consider adopting an
 ordinance that would incorporate design guidelines from the Sugar House
 Master Plan into the Sugar House Business District zone. The Sugar House
 Business District is generally located between 900 East and 1300 East
 and from 1900 South to 1-80. Design guidelines include regulations on
 such things as building facade design, spacing of doorways, glass
 20 - 2

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
 TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020
 transparency, and public way improvements. Related provisions of the
 City Code may also be amended as part of this petition. View Attachments
 Kael Nielsen said his only objection to the proposal was the
 mandating of retail on the first floor along 2100 South and 1100 East
 for two reasons : parking was an issue (increased construction
 costs/tenant rent), and live/work units did not work (re-sale
 difficulties) . He said that piece did not allow for flexibility in the
 future (there would be empty store fronts during hard economic times) ,
 because more retail would be built by mandate, and not by the demands of
 the market .
 Judi Short said the main purpose of the proposal was to codify the
 design elements of Sugar House Business District 2 . Comments included
 the maximum façade length should be 200 feet (not 300 feet) because the
 area was smaller and should have smaller buildings, there should be one
 active entrance every 30 feet (not 40 feet) because the area needed to
 remain walkable, no live/work units on the ground floor as a substitute
 for ground floor retail (creating inactive windows at street level) , and
 sidewalk widths should be 10 feet wide (currently too narrow for
 pedestrians going both ways) .
 Lynn Schwartz said there were several proposed standards that did
 not meet the spirit of the Master Plan, including the following
 recommended changes; 300-foot building frontages and sidewalk widths of
 6-8 feet.
 George Chapman said the proposal did not follow the Complete Streets
 Plan, and recommended the Council not approve the proposal and keep the
 public hearing open. Comments included insult to pedestrians not to
 provide regular/respectful sidewalks, the City needing ground-floor
 retail/restaurants (not residential units) , and proposal did not
 encourage walkability in Sugar House .
 Councilmember Fowler moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
 continue the public hearing to a later date, which motion carried, all
 members voted aye.
 (P 20-1)
 #3 . 7:29:43 PM Accept public comment and consider adopting an
 ordinance that would amend various sections of Salt Lake City Code
 pertaining to cannabis-related land uses pursuant to Petition No.
 PLNPCM2019-00678 . The purpose of these amendments is to update the zoning
 ordinance to be consistent with State law concerning the regulation of
 medicinal cannabis that was passed by the Utah State Legislature in 2019.
 Municipalities must adopt regulations to incorporate the new State laws
 into local zoning ordinances by January 2021 . "Cannabis Production
 20 - 3

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
 TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020
 Establishments" must be allowed in at least Agricultural or Manufacturing
 zoning districts if a municipality has one of these districts.
 Additionally, "Medicinal Cannabis Pharmacies" must be allowed in all
 zoning districts with the exception of those that are primarily
 residential and are subject to distance requirements. Other sections of
 Title 21A, Zoning, may also be amended as part of this petition. View
 Attachments
 George Chapman said he was against the proposed ordinance. Comments
 included dispensary being a half block away from the women' s homeless
 shelter, dispensaries should not be located near schools, liquor stores,
 or homeless shelters, and the City shouldn' t be enabling/encouraging
 drug use in those areas .
 Councilmember Johnston moved and Councilmember Rogers seconded to
 close the public hearing and defer action to a future meeting, which
 motion carried, all members voted aye .
 (P 20-3)
 #4 . 7:32:00 PM Accept public comment and consider adopting an
 ordinance amending various sections of the Salt Lake City Code relating
 to the appeal authority for land use decisions made by the Historic
 Landmark Commission (HLC) pursuant to Petition No. PLNPCM2019-00237 . The
 purpose of these amendments is to update the zoning ordinance so appeals
 of Historic Landmark Commission decisions are processed the same as all
 other appeals of administrative decisions, and to be consistent with
 recent changes made to the Utah State Code. Other sections of Title 21,
 Zoning, may also be amended as part of this petition. View Attachments
 There were no public comments.
 Councilmember Rogers moved and Councilmember Johnston seconded to
 close the public hearing and defer action to a future meeting, which
 motion carried, all members voted aye.
 (P 20-2)
 7:32:41 PM Note: Items 5-8 were heard as on public hearing
 #5. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Fix the
 Bricks Pre-Disaster Mitigation Grant, requesting approximately $3 . 8
 million in funding for the Fix-the-Bricks Pre-Disaster Mitigation Grant
 Program which allows seismic improvements to be made to roofs and
 chimneys. Homeowners would contribute 25s of the cost of improvements.
 View Attachments
 #6. Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Rocky
 Mountain High Intensity Drug Trafficking Area - Salt Lake Metro Narcotics
 20 - 4

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
 TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020
 Task Force Grant, requesting $819, 685 for costs associated with the Salt
 Lake City Police Department having taken over fiduciary responsibilities
 of the Salt Lake Metro Narcotics Task Force. If awarded, the grant monies
 would be used to provide funding support including salary and benefits
 for an SLCPD K9 officer, contracted administrative staff and a financial
 manager, overtime and travel expenses, services and supplies, and
 administrative costs relating to obtaining evidence. View Attachments
 #7 . Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: 400 South
 Viaduct Trail, requesting $540, 000 to fund the addition of a multi-use
 trail (concrete barrier or glue-down bollards) along the south side of
 400 South Street on top of the existing bridge deck. In addition, grant
 funds will be used to re-stripe part of the 400 South Viaduct while
 keeping all lanes currently available for vehicular travel . View
 Attachments
 #8 . Accept public comment regarding Grant Application: Repaving
 and Addition of Bike Lanes on Main Street from South Temple to 300 North
 (Bicycle Lanes Up Capitol Hill Project) , requesting $255, 000 from the
 Transportation Investment Fund (TIF) and the Transit Transportation
 Investment Fund (TTIF) for transportation improvements. The project
 would repave Main Street from South Temple to 300 North and add buffered
 or protected bike lanes, uphill and downhill . View Attachments
 George Chapman said he did not like separated bike lanes, however;
 he thanked the Council for proposing protected bike lanes on Main Street
 leading to the Capitol because it made sense . He said a bike path needed
 to be extended to Capitol grounds and be accessible to the Foothill
 Trails system.
 Councilmember Wharton moved and Councilmember Fowler seconded to
 close the public hearing and refer Items 5 through 8 to a future Consent
 Agenda, which motion carried, all members voted aye .
 (B 20-3)
 POTENTIAL ACTION ITEMS
 #1. 7:35:42 PM Adopting an ordinance that would adopt the Salt Lake
 City Foothills Trail System Master Plan. The plan would guide work to
 improve and create trails that are environmentally sustainable,
 enjoyable, accessible, safe, and low-maintenance. This is the first
 master plan for the Foothills Natural Area, covering from the North Salt
 Lake boundary, south to Emigration Canyon. A future plan update will
 address the area between Emigration and Parleys Canyons. View Attachments
 20 - 5

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
 TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020
 Councilmember Johnston said previous concerns had been addressed
 and although some things could be improved, he wanted to get this plan
 going and the City/Council would continue working on it .
 Councilmember Wharton said this was only the initial step of passing
 the plan and there would be more details/discussions to come as funding
 and phases of the plan moved ahead.
 Councilmember Dugan moved and Councilmember Wharton seconded to
 adopt Ordinance 2 of 2020, which motion carried, all members voted aye .
 (T 20-2)
 QUESTIONS TO THE MAYOR FROM THE CITY COUNCIL 7:37:29 PM
 There were no questions .
 COMMENTS TO THE CITY COUNCIL 7:38:18 PM
 George Chapman thanked the Mayor for her response to the sprinklers
 being turned on the homeless camps at The Leonardo Museum. He said he
 and others in Sugar House were interested in saving Allen Park, and urged
 the Council to keep it a park. He said SB214 was an anti-gambling statute
 that was needed in Salt Lake City because the Ballpark/Liberty Wells
 neighborhood had a crime magnet at 1300 South (Wayne' s Corner) , which
 contained gambling machines, and urged the Council to support the bill .
 Cindy Cromer provided a handout and spoke about meeting with
 Councilmember Fowler to discuss the following: housing being
 interdisciplinary, housing could benefit from incentives, and data
 driven housing in Salt Lake City.
 CONSENT 7:43 :33 PM
 Councilmember Wharton moved and Councilmember Fowler seconded to
 adopt the Consent Agenda, which motion carried, all members voted aye.
 #1. Setting the date of Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7 : 00 p.m. to
 accept public comment and consider adopting an ordinance that would
 rezone the parcels located at 402 and 416 East 900 South to rezone those
 parcels from RB (Residential/Business District) and CN (Neighborhood
 Commercial District) to CB (Community Business District) , pursuant to
 Petition No. PLNPCM2018-01025 . Currently, these parcels fall within two
 different zoning districts and the parcel at 416 East Street is split
 zoned both RB and CN. The applicants would like to rezone to one zone
 for consistency. No development plans have been submitted at this time.
 Although the applicant has requested that the property- be rezoned to CB,
 20 - 6

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
 TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020
 consideration may be given to rezoning the property to another zoning
 district with similar characteristics. View Attachments
 (P 19-18)
 #2 . Setting the date of Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7 : 00 p.m. to
 accept public comment and consider adopting an ordinance that would
 rezone property at 2064 North and 2066 North 2200 West from AG-2
 (Agricultural) to M-1 (Light Manufacturing) , pursuant to Petition No.
 PLNPCM2019-00431 . The applicant is requesting the rezone to accommodate
 future development of the property and implement the area master plan
 zoning. No site development proposal has been submitted at this time.
 Although the applicant has requested that the property be rezoned to M-
 1, consideration may be given to rezoning the property to another zoning
 district with similar characteristics. View Attachments
 (P 20-7)
 #3 . Setting the date of Tuesday, April 7, 2020 at 7 : 00 p.m. to
 accept public comment and consider adopting an ordinance that would close
 a City-owned alley located at approximately 1040 South Washington Street,
 pursuant to Petition No. PLNPCM2019-00400 . The alley is 15 feet wide and
 approximately 253 feet long. It runs west of Washington Street toward an
 abandoned Utah Transit Authority (UTA) railroad line, where it becomes
 a dead end before reaching 300 West Street. The proposal would allow the
 petitioner to incorporate it into the seven of eight adjacent properties
 they own. View Attachments
 (P 20-8)
 #4 . Setting the date of Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 7 : 00 p.m. to
 accept public comment regarding funding recommendations from the Mayor,
 from the Community Development and Capital Improvement Advisory Board
 (CDCIP Board) , and on an appropriations resolution adopting the One-Year
 Annual Action Plan that includes Community Development Block Grant (CDBG)
 funding, HOME Investment Partnership Program funding, Emergency
 Solutions Grant (ESG) funding, Housing Opportunities for Persons with
 AIDS (HOPWA) funding, for Fiscal Year 2020-21 and approving an Interlocal
 Cooperation Agreement between Salt Lake City and the United States
 Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) .
 (T 20-1)
 #5 . Setting the date of Tuesday, March 24, 2020 at 7 : 00 p.m. to
 accept public comment and consider adopting a resolution that would
 update and approve the timeline for the City' s 2020-24 Consolidated Plan
 as required by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
 Development (HUD) . The Consolidated Plan details the City's goals and
 objectives to build healthy and sustainable communities through four
 federal grants: Community Development Block Grants (CDBG) , Emergency
 20 - 7

MINUTES OF THE SALT LAKE CITY COUNCIL
 TUESDAY, MARCH 3, 2020
 Solutions Grants (ESG) , Home Investment Partnerships, and Housing
 Opportunities for Persons With AIDS (HOPWA) . View Attachments
 (T 20-1)
 The meeting adjourned at 7 : 43 p.m.
 cle
 Chris Wharton(Apr 10,2020) /v \
 Council Chair
 \no'
 ity Recor r
 This document is not intended to serve as a full transcript as
 additional discussion may have been held; please refer to the audio or
 video for entire content pursuant to Utah Code §52-4-203 (2) (b) .
 This document along with the digital recording constitute the
 official minutes of the Salt Lake City Council meeting held March 3 ,
 2020 .
 dr
 20 - 8
