                                         Town of Alta
                                 ORDINANCE NO. 2022-O-7
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10 “LAND USE REGULATIONS,” CHAPTER 4
“PLANNING COMMISSION,” TO CLARIFY PLANNING COMMISSION MEMBERS
               APPOINTMENTS, TERMS, AND VOTING.
WHEREAS, the Alta Town Council ("Council) previously enacted an ordinance creating and
regulating the appointment and terms of Planning Commission members; and

WHEREAS, the existing code language was ambiguous and internally conflicted with other code
language; and

WHEREAS, the expiration and/or appointment of prior Planning Commission members’ terms
resulted in the non-staggered expiration of terms; and

WHEREAS, three current terms of the Planning Commission expire on January 1, 2023; and

WHEREAS, the Council has determined that amending the current language governing Planning
Commission members will correct the ambiguity and internal conflict of the code and allow for
efficient operation of the Planning Commission.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Alta Town Council that:
SECTION I. Amendment. Title 10 “Land Use Regulations,” Chapter 4 “Planning
Commission,” Sections 2, 3, 11, and 12 are hereby amended as set forth as follows:
10-4-2: CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT:
   A. Specified: There is hereby created a planning commission, to consist of five (5) members.
      Members shall be appointed by the mayor, with the advice and consent of the town
      council. Alternate members may also be appointed, which the mayor may appoint with
      the advice and consent of the town council.
       The mayor shall, with the advice and consent of the town council, appoint a new planning
       commission member, or reappoint an incumbent Member, to fill a position on the
       planning commission that has expired. The Mayor shall appoint a new Planning
       Commission member, with the advice and consent of the town council, to fill vacancies
       that might arise and such appointments shall be to the end of the vacating member’s term.
   B. Community Representation: To the extent possible, appointments to the planning
      commission shall be made on a basis which represents the interests of residents of the
      town, and, in the event that they are available, should include at least one member
      representing the business community, one member representing the environmental
      community, one member representing the architecture/building community, one member
      representing the planning community, and one member who is an at large representative.
10-4-3: TERMS, ELIGIBILITY OF MEMBERS:
Terms: Members of the planning commission shall serve terms of five (5) years. There is no
limitation on the length of time a member may to serve if they are reappointed. Terms shall be
staggered with one seat expiring each year and shall expire on March 1 of the respective year.
Members shall continue to serve until their successors are appointed.
In the event that the expiration of planning commissioners’ terms are not staggered, the mayor
may appoint members for a term shorter than five (5) years to ensure the staggered expiration of
terms.
10-4-11: VOTING:
Actions of the planning commission pass by a vote in the affirmative of three (3) members.
10-4-12: DECISIONS:
All decisions and all findings for the decision of the planning commission shall be included and
incorporated in the minutes.


SECTION II. Effective Date. This ordinance shall go into effect upon publication.
PASSED AND APPROVED this 14 Day of December, 2022.

                                             TOWN OF ALTA




                                             Roger Bourke, Mayor
ATTEST:



Jen Clancy, Town Clerk

Certification
Ordinance/summary published on Utah state noticing website on December 15, 2022.
Effective date of Ordinance: December 15, 2022.
