TOWN OF ALTA |
ORDINANCE #2023-0-6 |
ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 5-4 “INTERLODGE TRAVEL” UPDATING THE 3
ORDINANCE TO MEET CURRENT OPERATIONAL PROCEDURES AND AUTHORITY. :
WHEREAS, in 1980 the Town of Alta (“Town”) Town Council ("Council) enacted an
Interlodge Travel ordinance for the safety and well-being of Town occupants; and
WHEREAS, the interlodge ordinance restricted movement within the Town during
activities undertaken for avalanche control and prevention; and
WHEREAS, since the interlodge travel ordinance was enacted, the conditions and
procedures of avalanche control and prevention have evolved; and
WHEREAS, the executive administration of the Town has also evolved; and
WHEREAS, the Council desires to update the interlodge travel ordinance to reflect
current procedures and authority to implement interlodge travel, and to clarify the
authority for exemptions from interlodge travel.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by Alta Town Council of, Utah, that:
| SECTION I. AMENDED. Title 5, Chapter 4, “Interlodge Travel” is hereby amended as
follows: ,
CHAPTER 4 sO .
INTERLODGE TRAVEL |
SECTION:
: 5-4-1; Authority To Prohibit Outdoor Travel .
5-4-2: Outdoor Travel Prohibited; Penalty )
5-4-3: Exemption
5-4-4: Posting Of Signs Required And Notifications; Penalty
5-4-5: Enforcement |
5-4-1: AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT OUTDOOR TRAVEL:
The Town Marshal shall have the authority to prohibit all travel by any person outside any public
or private structure or building, and shall be empowered to prohibit any vehicular or pedestrian
traffic within the limits of the Town whenever officials determine such travel is unsafe by reason
of hazardous avalanche conditions or activities undertaken for avalanche control and prevention.
5-4-2: OUTDOOR TRAVEL PROHIBITED; PENALTY:
It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully go outside of any public or private structure
within the Town or to engage in vehicular or pedestrian traffic outside of any building whenever
such travel shall have been designated as unsafe and prohibited by the Town Marshal. Violation
of this section is a Class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this
Code.

5-4-3: EXEMPTION:

Interlodge restrictions shall not apply to ski patrol employees, officers of the US Forest Service,
supervised Utah Department of Transportation personnel, Unified Fire Authority personnel, law
enforcement personnel, or Town Marshal employees, The exemption of personnel in this section .
only applies to on-duty employees of the named entities acting in the scope of employment.

The Alta Ski Lift Company may authorize necessary travel with the approval of the Marshal
within their special use permit area boundaries provided that they coordinate with the Town
Marshal’s Office and UDOT Avalanche Forecasters during explosive avalanche mitigation work.
Necessary travel is defined as essential to the basic operation of facilities and not conducted as a
convenience. The Alta Ski Lift Company shall maintain accountability and tracking of travel
during Interlodge periods. The above exemption for the Alta Ski Lift Company is conditioned on
a written indemnity agreement between the Town and Alta Ski Lift Company.

The Town Manager or Town Marshal shall also have the power to designate individuals on a one
time basis as exempt from interlodge restrictions,

5-4-4: POSTING OF SIGNS REQUIRED AND NOTIFICATIONS; PENALTY:

All owners, operators and/or managers of any building located within the Town, after receipt of
notice by the Town Marshal’s Office or Deputy, shall post on or near, in a conspicuous place,
each unlocked exit or doorway leading to the outside of each building, a sign stating that all
outdoor or interlodge travel is prohibited by order of the Town Marshal. Each sign required

hereunder shall be of a nature, size and substance approved by the Town Marshal. It shall be
unlawful for any owner, operator or manager to willfully fail to post the approved signs in the
manner required hereby.
All owners, operators and/or managers of any building located within the Town shall also
register their contact information with the Marshal's Office for interlodge closure notifications
and shall be responsible for confirming that interlodge travel is permitted before engaging in or
allowing outdoor travel.
Violation of this section is a Class C misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-
1 of this Code.
5-4-5; ENFORCEMENT:
The Town Marshal is hereby empowered to deputize for such length of time as necessary, any
suitable person to enforce compliance with this section.

SECTION II. Effective Date. This ordinance shall be effective upon publication.
PASSED AND APPROVED by the Town of Alta Town Council, Utah, this 9 day of
August in the year 2023.
[A a4 A yl ——
Roger ourke, Mayor

ATTEST:

EAL ROIYY
Jen Clanéy, Town Clerk )
Ordinance/summary published on Utah state noticing website on S| \c | LS ;
Effective date of Ordinance: BI \G | L4
