TOWN OF ALTA
ORDINANCE # 2024-0-9
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AMENDMENTS TO TITLE 10, CHAPTER 11 OF THE
ALTA CODE RELATING TO SUBDIVISIONS
WHEREAS, The Utah State Legislature, during the 2023 and 2024 Legislative Sessions, —
adopted changes to the Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act, requiring
municipalities to adopt and follow a statutory process for the consideration of subdivision
applications; and
WHEREAS, the Town of Alta Planning Commission has considered proposed
amendments to the Town’s subdivision ordinance to comply with the recently adopted provisions
. of state law; and
WHEREAS, the Planning Commission held a public hearing on August 28, 2024 and has :
recommended adoption of the changes to the Town Council; and:
WHEREAS, the Town Council, having held a public hearing on November 13, 2024 and
in consideration of the proposed amendments finds that adoption of the proposed amendments
will be in furtherance of the provisions of the Municipal Land Use, Development, and
Management Act and will promote the public welfare, and desires now to adopt the proposed
amendments; ,
. NOW, THEREFORE, be it ordained by the Town Council of Alta, Utah, as follows:
Section I: Amendment and Codification. The Town Council hereby amends the
provisions of Title 10, Chapter 11 of the Alta Town Code to read in its entirety as shown in
Exhibit A, attached hereto and incorporated herein by reference. The Chapter, as amended,
shall be codified as numbered herein.
Section II: Severability. If any section, part or provision of this Ordinance is held invalid
or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other portion of this
Ordinance, and all sections, parts and provisions of this Ordinance shall be severable. _
Section II: Effective Date. This Ordinance shall take effect upon publication.
2024-0-9 Page 1 of 2 |
|
PASSED AND APPROVED by the Town of Alta Town Council, Utah, this 13" day of
November, 2024.
| By: TOWN OF ALTA
i Roger Bourke
Attest:
J jim Town = -
Ordinance/summary published on Utah state noticing website on \4 1is-|Ze 24 ‘
Effective date of Ordinance: \t | is” | Wty.
Vote:
Mayor Bourke Y és Councilmember Anctil vy ZS
Councilmember Byrne Y LS Councilmember Morgan V £S
Councilmember Schilling \ { t&
2024-0-9 Page 2 of 2
CHAPTER 11 | .
SUBDIVISIONS 1
SECTION:
10-11-1: PURPOSE
, 10-11-2: APPLICABILITY
10-11-3: PRESUBMISSION MEETING —
10-11-4: APPLICATION
10-11-5: FEES | | , ,
10-11-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT .
10-11-7: TOWN REVIEW .
| 10-11-8: APPLICATION COMPLETION TIMELINE |
10-11-9. FINAL PLAT:
Notes )
1 1.See also section 9-1-5 of this code for outside agency approval requirements.
_ 10-11-1: PURPOSE: .
The purpose of this chapter is: ) .
A. To promote the health, safety and general welfare of the residents of the town.
B. To promote the efficient and orderly growth of the town. |
) C. To provide policies, procedures, requirements and standards for the physical |
development of subdivisions of land, construction of improvements within the town,
including, but not limited to, the construction and installation of roads, streets, curbs,
gutters, drainage systems, water and sewer systems, design standards for public facilities .
and utilities, accesses to public rights of ways, and to establish fees and other charges for |
the authorizing of a subdivision.
D. To ensure that public facilities are available to the site and will have a sufficient
capacity to serve a proposed subdivision. ,
E. To encourage the wise use and management of natural resources to preserve the |
integrity, stability and aesthetics of the community. (Ord. 2009-0-3, 6-18-2009) .
10-11-2: APPLICABILITY:
No person shall subdivide any parcel of land which is located wholly or in part in the town
, except in compliance with this chapter. No person shall sell or exchange or offer to sell or
exchange any parcel of land which is any part of a subdivision of a tract of land, nor offer
for recording in the office of the Salt Lake County recorder any deed conveying such parcel
of land, or any interest therein, unless such subdivision has been created pursuant to and in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. This chapter shall not apply to any lot or
lots forming a part of a subdivision created and recorded prior to the effective date hereof.
(Ord. 2009-0-3, 6-18-2009) ° .
10-11-3: PRESUBMISSION MEETING: :
It is strongly recommended that the applicant for a subdivision schedule a presubmission
meeting with the Town Manager, or another representative of the town designated by the
Town Manager. Upon request from an applicant, the Town shall schedule a presubmission
meeting within 15 business days of the request.
A. The Town Manager or Town Manager’s designee may extend an invitation to the .
presubmission meeting to any servicing utility companies, the Salt Lake County Health
Department, the Utah Department of Transportation, the Unified Fire Authority, and any
other private or public body that has jurisdiction or an interest in providing services to the
subdivision.
. B. At the presubmission meeting, the applicant may bring any materials to assist the
parties at the meeting in identifying the location of the potential subdivision, the size and :
layout of the subdivision, and any potential problems or challenges to creating the
subdivision. The Town shall have available or provide access to: (1) copies of applicable
land use regulations; (2) a complete list of standards required for the project; (3)
preliminary and final subdivision application checklists; and (4) feedback on the
presubmission plans.
C. Due to the unique terrain of the real property within the town, the Town Manager or
or Town Manager's designee may require that the applicant submit additional information,
as set forth in subsection 10-11-4B3f of this chapter. (Ord. 2009-0-3, 6-18-2009; amd. Ord.
2021-0-1, 3-10-2021; Ord. 2023-0-2, 4-12-2023) |
10-11-4: APPLICATION. ,
A. The applicant for a subdivision shall prepare and submit a preliminary plat application
to the Town Manager or Town Manager’s designee. The application shall include three (3)
copies of a complete preliminary plat and three (3) completed application forms for the
subdivision, including all required maps and charts. All application materials shall be
submitted at the same time in order to be considered for completeness.
B. Application Form and Content: The town administration may create a preliminary plat
application form based upon the requirements of this section. A complete application shall
include all of the following information:
1. Property Information: The date of the application, the name, address, phone number,
e-mail address, and signature of the applicant and the owner of the property, the current .
zoning of the property, the location and address of the proposed subdivision, the total
acreage of the subdivision, and the number of proposed lots. All persons with a fee interest
in the property shall sign the subdivision application form. The applicant shall submit a
preliminary title report for all property within the application. .
2. Site Information: The following subdivision site information is required for a
complete application and shall be provided at the same scale as the preliminary subdivision
plat, on separate sheets if necessary:
a. The identification of known and potential natural features ona map, including, but.
not limited to, jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. army corps of engineers, :
known or potential natural Waterways, Top of Bank, and any potential natural hazards,
including avalanche paths, liquefaction areas, and areas of soil instability, and all on site .
vegetation regulated by town ordinance. A final map identifying known and potential
natural features as described in this section and identified by the building official will be. |
reviewed and approved or denied by the Planning Commission as part of the application
review process. ;
b. The location and dimensions of all existing buildings, fence lines and property lines,
overlaid on the proposed subdivision layout, and the location of surrounding manmade 7
_ features and improvements, including buildings and roads, and natural features, including
_ significant landmarks and geologic features.
3. Evidence Of Availability Of Necessary Services: The following information is
necessary to establish the availability of basic services to the proposed subdivision and the ;
preliminary plat subdivision application is complete only when all basic services are
available to the site and to each proposed subdivision lot, and approved in writing by the
designated authority:
a. Culinary Water Requirements: Salt Lake City department of public utilities, water
division, Salt Lake Valley health department, and the Town Manager or Town Manager’s
designee, are hereby designated collectively as the "culinary water authority", as further
defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as amended or replaced. Such culinary
water authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed culinary water system for the
_ subdivision. The applicant shall provide all information required by the culinary water
authority (and other applicable agency described below, if any), including, but not limited
to, evidence of the source, quantity, quality and means of delivery of the proposed culinary
water to the proposed subdivision and each proposed lot. Certain property within the town
boundaries may not be eligible to be served by the town culinary water system or able to .
be supplied water through the town contract for water with Salt Lake City, and shall be
required to obtain approval from any additional public or private agency with jurisdiction
over the proposed water source or delivery system. The requirements of the State Division
3 ;
of Drinking Water must be satisfied and Division approval, where required, shall be
obtained by the applicant before a final plat is approved.

b. Wastewater Requirements: Salt Lake Valley health department, environmental
health division, Salt Lake County service area no. 3, Cottonwood improvement district, and
the Town Manager or Town Manager’s designee, are hereby designated collectively as the .

“sanitary sewer authority”, as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a,
as amended or replaced. Each sanitary sewer authority shall evaluate and approve the ,
proposed sanitary sewer system. The applicant shall provide all information and materials
as required by the sanitary sewer authority.

c. Fire And Emergency Requirements: The Unified Fire Authority is hereby designated

as the “fire authority”, as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10, chapter 9a, as
amended or replaced. The fire authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed fire
suppression infrastructure and emergency access to the proposed subdivision. If the .

. proposed subdivision does not include year round motor vehicle (as defined by Utah Code
Annotated) access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets and
adjacent properties, the application shall include an emergency access mitigation plan,
approved by the fire authority and the town. The applicant shall provide all information
and materials as required by the fire authority.

d. Subdivision Roads And Streets: All proposed subdivision streets shall be evaluated |
and approved by the Town Manager or Town Manager’s designee, and if appropriate, the :
Utah Department of Transportation. The proposed street layout shall provide adequate and
‘safe year-round access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets and
adjacent properties. If the proposed subdivision does not include year-round motor vehicle
(as defined by Utah Code Annotated) access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing
roads, streets and adjacent properties, the application shall include a parking and access
mitigation plan. If the proposed subdivision will be accessed from a state highway, an
appropriate access permit as required by the state department of transportation, shall be
provided with the application materials in order to bea complete application. If the
proposed subdivision will be accessed from U.S. Forest Service property, the applicant shall
provide any appropriate access or special use permits as required by the U.S. Forest Service
with the application materials in order to be a’ complete application.

e. Avalanche Hazards: The town marshal department shall evaluate and approvethe =
subdivision application provisions for avalanche safety and interlodge controls. The
application shall include maps and descriptions of known avalanche slide paths and shall
include a proposed plat note describing the risks of building in an avalanche zone and an
acknowledgment limiting the town liability for hazards associated with avalanches. A final
map identifying known avalanche slide paths shall be certified by a qualified avalanche
expert and will be reviewed and approved or denied by the Planning Commission as part of

the application review process. The proposed plat note shall further acknowledge the

responsibility of any landowner within the subdivision to comply with the town interlodge

procedures and avalanche design and construction requirements, and the applicant and

current landowner agreement to sign and record the town avalanche hold harmless .

agreement concurrently with the recordation of the plat.
4
f. Additional Information And Materials When Necessary: When the Town Manager or
Town Manager’s designee deems necessary due to the characteristics of the property to be
subdivided, the applicant may be required to provide other information or letters of
feasibility from other agencies with jurisdiction over the property to be subdivided,
conduct studies, and provide evidence indicating the suitability of the area for the proposed
subdivision, including, but not limited to, adequacy of public safety and fire protection,
geologic or flood hazard, erosion control, preservation of vegetation, and any other
physical or environmental matters in conformance with the town zoning ordinances. Such
additional requirements shall be made of the applicant at the presubmission meeting, or
reasonably soon thereafter. (Ord. 2009-0-3, 6-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2021-0-1, 3-10-2021;
Ord. 2023-0-2, 4-12-2023)

g. Notice: The applicant shall provide the town with two (2) sets of typewritten
address labels and sufficient funds to cover related postage costs to all property owners
within three hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision and all _-
affected entities.
10-11-5: FEES:

A. Application Fees: To be considered complete, the application for preliminary plat
subdivision approval and a final plat subdivision approval shall be accompanied by all fees
established on the town fee schedule.

B. Technical Expertise And Engineering Fees: The applicant shall pay all expenses of
reviewing and approving the subdivision, including the town fees for hiring individuals
with technical expertise, legal counsel and engineers to review the application. (Ord. 2009-
0-3, 6-18-2009)

10-11-6: PRELIMINARY PLAT:
A. Preliminary Plat: The Administrative Land Use Authority for the approval of a
Preliminary Plat application shall be the Planning Commission. The preliminary plat shall
be prepared by a licensed surveyor, and shall include the name and address of the surveyor

responsible for preparing the preliminary plat, and shall include a certification that the
surveyor holds a license in accordance with Utah Code Annotated title 58, chapter 22, as
amended or replaced, and has completed a survey of the property in accordance with Utah
Code Annotated section 17-23-17, as amended or replaced. The preliminary plat shall
describe or specify:

1. Aname or designation of the subdivision that is distinct from any plat already
recorded in the county recorder's office;

2. North arrow, graphic and written scale, legend, basis of bearings used, and a vicinity
map of the site;

3. The legal description of the entire subdivision site boundary;
4. The boundaries, course and dimensions, and acreage or square footage for all parcels
, of ground divided, whether the owner proposes that any parcel or ground is intended to be
used as a street or for any other Public Use, and whether any such area is reserved or
proposed for dedication for a public purpose;
5. For all parcels, the proposed lot or unit reference, block or building reference, street
or site address, street name or coordinate address (to be approved by the Planning
Commission as part of the application review process);
6. Every existing right of way and easement grant of record for underground facilities
and for all other utility facilities;
7. The anticipated net developable acreage for each lot;
8. The names and addresses of the applicant and owner of the property, the engineer or
_ surveyor of the subdivision and the owners of the land immediately adjoining the land to .
be subdivided and within three hundred feet (300) of the boundaries of the proposed ,
subdivision.
10-11-7: TOWN REVIEW: ;
A. Determination Of Completeness Of Application: After receipt of an application, the Town
Manager or Town Manager’s designee shall determine whether the application is complete.
An application for subdivision is only complete when it includes all information and
approvals listed in this chapter. If the Town Manager or Town Manager’s designee
determines that the application is not complete, the Town Manager or Town Manager's
designee shall notify the applicant in writing, specifying the deficiencies of the application, .
including any additional information which must be supplied. No further action will be
taken by the Town until the deficiencies are corrected.
B. ;

1, Following a determination that the application is complete, the application shall be ) |
reviewed by Town staff for compliance with the Town’s Ordinances, Rules and Regulations. oO
Review by staff shall be completed within 40 business days of receipt of the application.
After staff review, the application shall be placed on the next available Planning .
Commission regular meeting agenda for review.

2. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on the Preliminary Subdivision
application. Notice of the Public Hearing shall be sent to the record owner of each parcel
within 500 feet (500’) of the property that is the subject of the application and shall be
posted and provided as a Class B notice in accordance with provisions of Utah Code Ann.

§63G-30-102.

3. The Planning Commission shall approve a Preliminary Plat if the proposed subdivision
and the associated improvement drawings are in compliance with the Town’s ordinances
and requirements.
10-11-8: APPLICATION COMPLETION TIME LINE:
A. Remedy Of Deficiencies: The applicant shall correct all specified deficiencies within
forty (40) days of the written notification of such deficiencies. If the applicant fails to
correct the specified deficiencies within a ninety (90) day period, the application for
subdivision shall be deemed withdrawn and will be returned to the applicant. Application
fees shall not be refunded. Any further submissions shall be considered only as part of a
new application.
B, Extensions Of Time: The Town Manager or Town Manager’s designee, upon written
request from the applicant, may grant the applicant one automatic thirty (30) day |
extension to correct the specified deficiencies. (Ord. 2009-0-3, 6-18-2009; amd. Ord. 2023-
0-2, 4-12-2023)
| 10-11-9. FINAL PLAT:
The Administrative Land Use Authority for approval of a Final Plat application shall be the :
Town Manager. Upon approval of the Preliminary Plat by the Planning Commission, an
applicant shall submit a final plat, in recordable form, to the Town for its review and |
‘approval. The submitted final plat shall be consistent with all provisions and conditions of
the Preliminary Plat. With the final plat, the applicant shall submit: (1) an updated _
Preliminary Title Report issued within 30 days of the Final plat application showing
evidence of ownership for all parcels within the plat satisfactory in form to the Town
attorney; and (2) any assurance for the installation of public improvements as required by
Town ordinance. The Town Manager shall review a complete Final Plat submittal within 30 :
business days of receipt of the application by the Town and shall approve the Final Plat if it
is consistent with the approved Preliminary Plat and any conditions of approval.
| |
|
