TOWN OF ALTA
ORDINANCE # 2024-0-8
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 3, CHAPTER 2 “ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES”
TO CONFORM WITH STATE LIQUOR LICENSE CLASSIFICATIONS |
WHEREAS, the Town of Alta (“Town”) updated it’s liquor license ordinance on June 20,
2024 to be consistent with the classification of alcoholic beverage licenses and to use terms and
language consistent with the state statutes; and
WHEREAS, the Town wishes to correct an omission to section 3-2-3 (F) of Ordinance
2024-0-5.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Alta Town Council of, Utah that:
. Section I: Title 3, Chapter 2 is hereby amended as indicated in the attached redline
Exhibit 1,
Section II: Effective Date. This Ordinance shall become effective two weeks after
publication. .
PASSED AND APPROVED by the Town of Alta Town Council, Utah, this 9" day of October,
2024.
ayor, Roger Bourke
Attest: .
\ ~~ C
Jén Clancy, Town Clerk .
Ordinance/summary published on Utah state noticing website on _\@ | sO 201+} .
Effective date of Ordinance: \C | 2H | Lol.
Vote: _
Mayor Bourke ay “SS 4S Councilmember Anctil Wes Oreg Ont
Councilmember Byrne ‘on Lye Councilmember Morgan N&& Oves euc¥
Councilmember Schilling V7 Yes
EXHIBIT 1 |
; 2024-0-8 |
CHAPTER 2 — ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
3-2-3: CLASSIFICATIONS OF LICENSES:
Business licenses issued under this chapter shall match the classification and type issued under
the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act or successor statute as closely as possible given local
context and be known as: a) the on-premise beer retailer license; b) the restaurant liquor
license; c) the bar establishment liquor license; d) the retail off-premise beer retailer license,
and e) the on-premise banquet license.
A. On-Premise Beer Retailer License: The on-premise beer retailer license shall entitle the
licensee to sell beer in accordance with the provisions of state law governing its license of same
name, which is adopted herein by reference, and with other relevant ordinances of the town.
B. Restaurant Liquor License: The restaurant liquor license shall entitle the licensee to sell
alcoholic beverages in accordance with the provisions of state law governing its license of same
name, which is adopted herein by reference, and with other relevant ordinances of the town. :
C. Bar Establishment Liquor License: The bar establishment liquor license shall entitle the
licensee to sell alcoholic beverages in accordance with the provisions of state law governing its
license of same name, which is adopted herein by reference, and with other relevant
ordinances of the town.
D. Off-Premise Beer Retailer License: The off-premise beer retailer license shall entitle the
licensee to sell beer in closed containers for consumption off of the premises of the licensee.
The town imposes no restriction as to the hours during which beer may be sold under this
license nor as to the days on which beer may be sold; however, the licensee shall conform to all
laws and regulations of the state applicable to retail off premises sales of beer in containers,
including minimum ages for employees who sell beer.
E, On-Premise Banquet License: The on-premise banquet license shall entitle the licensee to
the storage, sale, service, and consumption of alcoholic beverages for banquet activities on the
premises of a hotel, resort facility, sports center, or convention center in accordance with the
state law governing it’s license of the same name, which is adopted herein by reference, and
with other relevant ordinances of the town.
F, Single Event Permit: A Single Event Permit is required for sales of any alcoholic beverage at
a public or private event involving a cash bar, hosted bar, or that is open to the public and does
not fall under another license type.
2024-0-8 |
