TOWN OF ALTA
ORDINANCE # 2025-0-4
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLES 8 AND 9 TO ADOPT THE WILDLAND-
URBAN INTERFACE CODE AND ALLOW FOR DEFENSIBLE SPACE

WHEREAS, the Town of Alta Town Council (“Council”) wished to promote the health,
safety and welfare of those who live in properties in the Town of Alta; and,

WHEREAS, the entire Town of Alta (Town) is within a Wildland-Urban Interface area;
and,

WHEREAS, wildfire risk is an issue for the properties in the Town;

WHEREAS, defensible space is a requirement of the Wildland-Urban Interface Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF ALTA,
UTAH, THAT:

SECTION I: Amendment. Title 8 and Title 9 of the Alta Code of Ordinances is hereby

amended as set forth in Exhibit A.

SECTION II: Effective Date. This ordinance shall got into effect after publication and

posting as required by Utah Code Title 10, Chapter 3.

PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town Council of Alta, Utah, this 10" day of

December in the year 2025.
TO OF
Roger Bourke, Mayor

ATTEST:

A

VG bon.

Je cy, Town Clerk
Vote:
Mayor Bourke \ ! tS Councilmember Anctil \ [es
Councilmember Byrne S LS Councilmember Morgan \ ! eN
Councilmember Schilling Ack Pye enr-

Certification

Ordinance/summary published on Utah state noticing website on December 12, 2025.
Effective date of Ordinance: December 12, 2025.
|
|
|
, EXHIBIT A :
8-1-14; DEVELOPMENTS: :
A. Defined: "Development" shall mean a group or planned group or planned development, -
including apartment and/or group dwellings, or any other private housing development where |
streets within such development are not dedicated to the Town. |
B. Fire Hydrants Located In Any Development: The owner, builder and/or developer of any
development located within the limits of the Town shall install within the development, at their
sole expense, all fire hydrants as required by applicable codes and regulations and at those
locations designated by the fire marshal. I
) Additionally, where the development is located on private property and the street containing
. water mains and the hydrants are not conveyed or otherwise dedicated to the Town, the owner,
builder and/or developer shall be and remain solely liable for all claims arising therefrom and :
responsible for the complete maintenance and operations of all mains and fire hydrants within
the development. Where the street containing water mains and hydrants are later conveyed or
otherwise dedicated the Town, the owner, builder and/or developer shall, at their expense,
maintain the mains and fire hydrants for a period of one year from the date of written
acceptance thereof by the Town. No dwelling unit in any such development shall be located
more than three hundred feet (300') from a fire hydrant. ,
C, Compliance With Specifications: All hydrants installed in any such subdivision must comply
with current specifications for fire hydrants by applicable codes and regulations. -
D. Bond Required: A performance bond in an amount adequate to cover the cost of construction
must be posted before any installation of mains and fire hydrants can begin hereunder in order
to assure compliance with the foregoing, and that the hydrants and water mains shall be :
properly installed and maintained according to specifications of Town code. The bond will not
be released until the requirements are met and all fire hydrants and water mains connected
thereto are certified in writing to be in good operating condition by the fire marshal.
8-1-16: FIRE HYDRANTS:
A. Control: All fire hydrants within the limits of the Town, and those installed outside, shall be
under the control of and shall be kept in repair by the superintendent of the public works
department in conjunction with the fire marshal.
B. Purchase Of Water From Hydrants Authorized: The chief administrative officer of the Town,
or his/her agent, may allow public or private contractors, subcontractors or other legitimate
users to purchase water from fire hydrants. Any entity requesting to purchase water from a |
hydrant must demonstrate to the Town that it has employees with the skills necessary to operate
. the equipment set forth in subsection D of this section without damage to the hydrant and
|
without causing contamination to the Town water system. A fee shall be charged for the |
application; the fee to be established by resolution.
C. Applications In Writing Required: Applications for the purchase of water from fire hydrants |
shall be completed and approved at least forty eight (48) hours prior to the water being
purchased. A properly issued application shall constitute a permit for the purchase and taking
of water and must be present at the site where water is being taken. The application and permit —_-
shall only be used at the hydrant specified in the application. Purchase price for the water shall |
be established by resolution. !
D, Town To Require Specified Equipment: No water shall be taken from any fire hydrant within |
the Town unless a flow meter with a shutoff valve and backflow preventer is used. The flow :
meter shall either be furnished by the Town or shall be one acceptable to the Town. The flow
meter shall be returned to the Town in good working condition immediately upon completion
of use. If the Town flow meter is used, a deposit in an amount which is at least the replacement
cost of the flow meter shall be charged, which amount shall be established by resolution.
_ _ E, Charges And Regulations For Use Of Hydrants: Under the direction of the chief administrative
. Officer of the Town, regulations for the use and purchase of water from fire hydrants may be
issued administratively. Fees for the usage of equipment shall be charged and shall be set by
resolution. .
F, Proper Use And Indemnification: Any entity taking water from a fire hydrant shall disconnect |
the flow meter and shutoff valve when water is not being taken from the hydrant. All applicants a
shall agree to hold the Town and its officials and employees harmless from any and all claims, -
losses, damages, costs and liability of any type which may arise as a result of the permittee's
use of the hydrant and water as authorized, and indemnify the Town for any costs it may incur
- thereby.
G. Responsibility For Damage: Any damage done to any equipment owned by the Town shall be
the responsibility of and shall be paid for promptly by any entity taking water from a fire
hydrant. The Town shall have the authority to immediately revoke any permit on a showing .
that any damage has been done or that any laws or regulations have been broken.
H. Penalties For Unlawful Use: It shall be unlawful for any person, business ot any entity to take
water from a fire hydrant without first complying with the above laws. Violation of this section
shall be a class B misdemeanor, subject to penalty as provided in section 1-4-1 of this code.
I. Fire Hydrants On Private Property: .
1. Permit Required: No person, firm or corporation shall install a fire hydrant or fire hydrant |
water supply piping on private property or cause the same to be done, without first
obtaining a permit for each structure from the Town building inspector. .
2. Expense Of Owner; Maintenance: Any installation of a fire hydrant or fire hydrant supply
piping under this section shall be made at the expense of the owner of the property upon !
which such installation is made and the hydrant shall be installed and perpetually |
maintained by the person, or his successor in interest, in compliance with the applicable
fire hydrant specifications, regulations and agreements of the department of public works,

3. Building Construction, Distance Requirements: It shall be unlawful for any person to
complete more than thirty percent (30%) of the construction of any new building or
building addition, other than buildings designed for use as three (3) or less individual ;
family dwelling units, when the building is located on private property more than two
hundred feet (200') from a fire hydrant, measured from the fire hydrant. Whenever the :

building inspector determines that any work is being done to the contrary to the provisions
of this subsection, he may order the work stopped by notice in writing served on any person
engaged in doing or causing such work to be done, and any such person shall stop such
work until authorized by the building inspector to proceed with the work. :

4, Specifications: All water outlets on fire hydrants installed hereunder must meet the
specifications of applicable codes and regulations.

5. Water Main Size Requirements: No new water main installation used to service a fire
hydrant shall be smaller than six inches (6") in diameter.

6. Number Of Hydrants Required For A Building: The following table shall be used in

determining the number of hydrants to be used for fire protection in connection with the
construction of any building not excluding hereunder, with the location of each such
hydrant to be determined and designated by the fire marshal:
Building Area Square Number Of Hydrants Required ,
Feet
1 Story (Without Basement) | 2 Stories Or More (1 Story And
Basement)
Over 400,000 Discretion of fire marshal ) |
7. Bond: A performance bond in the amount adequate to cover the cost of construction must |
be posted before any installation of fire hydrants can begin hereunder in order to assure
compliance with the foregoing. The bond will not be released until the requirements hereof |
are met and all water mains and fire hydrants connected thereto are certified in writing to ~ |
be in good operating condition by the fire marshal. , |
9-1-2: CODES ADOPTED: 3
| A. Building Code: The international building code (IBC), as adopted by the state, is hereby
adopted as the official building code for the town, subject to section 9-1-3 of this chapter.
_sB. Fire Code: |
1, For the purpose of prescribing regulations governing conditions hazardous to life and
property from fire and explosion, the 2009 edition of the international fire code ("IFC"), ,
—_ and any subsequent editions, including the international fire code standards, is hereby
_ adopted including appendices B, C, D, E, F, G, H, I and J but not appendix A thereof, with
such amendments as are set forth below.
2. Pursuant to Utah Code Annotated 10-3-711 (17-53-208), upon passage hereof, a copy of
the international fire code shall be placed on file in the office of the town clerk for the use
and examination of the public.
C. Uniform Code For Abatement Of Dangerous Buildings: The town hereby adopts the 1997 .
edition of the uniform code for the abatement of dangerous buildings (UCADB), as adopted
by the International Code Council.
D. Wastewater Disposal Regulations: The town hereby adopts the Salt Lake Valley health
department wastewater disposal regulations. , —
E. Other Codes As Approved: All other building, plumbing, electrical, mechanical, energy and/or
natural gas codes established and adopted as standard by the state, including amendments
thereto, shall hereby become established as the adopted codes of the town, subject to section
9-1-3 of this chapter. .
F. Wildland Urban Interface Code: The 2006 Wildland Urban Interface Code along with
Appendix A and Appendix B. and any successor code adopted by the State of Utah is hereby
adopted. All the lands within the town limits of the Town of Alta are designated by the Utah Division
of Forestry, Fire and State Lands as Wildland-Urban Interface.
9-3-2: SITE PLAN APPROVAL: |
A. Required; Approving Authority: It is the express policy of the Town to preserve as many mature |
trees as possible. It shall be unlawful for any person to proceed with any development or
remove mature trees within the Town without first having submitted a site plan and obtaining
an approved site plan with respect to vegetation. For single-family residential development, |
the building official shall provide the approval. For all other development, the planning
commission shall provide the approval. In order to obtain approval to remove mature trees, a
person must show that the failure to remove a mature tree will constitute extreme hardship. |

B. Forest Service Land: For development on forest service land, and private land being developed |
in conjunction with forest service permitted land, on which a building is not proposed or |
contemplated, written approval by the forest service of a vegetation plan shall constitute
approval from the Town, which must receive the written approval prior to issuing any building !

__ permits and prior to any development proceeding. |

9-3-3; REQUIREMENTS FOR PRESERVATION OR REPLACEMENT: |

A. Seedlings: Any seedling removed from the property shall be replaced with three (3) vigorous |

seedlings of at least six inches (6") in height. ,

B. Saplings: Any sapling removed from the property shall be replaced with three (3) vigorous
seedlings at least six inches (6") in height and three (3) vigorous saplings at least five feet (5')
in height. :

C. Mature Trees:

1. Any mature tree, if approved for removal from the property, shall be replaced with five (5)
vigorous seedlings at least six inches (6") in height and five (5) vigorous saplings at least
five feet (5') in height. .
2. No mature tree shall be removed without site plan approval.
D. Survival; Replacement: Appropriate steps shall be taken to ensure all planted trees survive.
Any planted trees that do not survive shall be replaced.

E. Bond; Replacement: A two (2) year bond shall be given to the Town in the amount of the value
of the replaced trees to be utilized in the event of their death and nonreplacement by the
developer or landowner. Submission of a site plan shall constitute a license in favor of the
Town to enter upon a development and replace dead vegetation in the event the landowner or
developer does not replace the same after written notice from the Town to do so.

F,. The requirements of this removal and replacement section shall not apply to defensible space

. requirements of the Wildland Urban Interface Code as adopted by the Town so long as a
documentation indicating trees to be removed, including their proximity to the property, is
submitted and approved by the Building Official. —

G. A copy of the approved fire protection plan shall be submitted to the Town for incorporation |
into the final approval documents. , |
