TOWN OF ALTA
ORDINANCE # 2026-0-2
AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 10, CHAPTERS 3, 4, 5, 11 and 14 AND TITLE 11
CHAPTER 1 TO UPDATE REFERENCES to the UTAH MUNICIPAL LAND USE,
DEVELOPMENT, and MANAGEMENT ACT to MATCH STATE CODE
WHEREAS, The Utah Municipal Land Use, Development, and Management Act
(“LUDMA”) governs how local municipalities regulate land use and zoning; and
WHEREAS, The Town of Alta Code makes reference to the Utah State Code as it relates
to LUDMA; and
WHEREAS, LUDMA was recently recodified in Utah State Code and moved from Title
10, Chapter 9a to Title 10, Chapter 20; and
WHEREAS, the Town desires to have Town Code accurately refer to Utah State Code.
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE ALTA TOWN COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1: Amendment. Title 10, Chapter 3, Section 1 is amended as indicated below:
10-3-1: DESIGNATED; AUTHORITY:
The planning commission shall serve as the town "land use authority", as defined in section | 0-1-
| 6 of this title, and pursuant to Utah Code Annotated section 1008 Chapter10-20 et seq., as
amended and supplemented from time to time, for all land use applications for all land within the
town boundaries. The land use authority shall hear, review and act on all such land use
applications, and shall be the final decision maker on such land use applications. (Ord. 2008-O-3,
6-12-2008)
Section 2: Amendment. Title 10, Chapter 4, Sections 6 and 7 is amended as indicated below:
10-4-6: AUTHORITY OF PLANNING COMMISSION:
The planning commission shall have all authority conferred on the planning commission pursuant
| to Utah Code Annotated section+ 10-20-302, as amended and supplemented from time
to time, and such other powers as are conferred on it by the town council. (Ord. 2008-O-2, 6-12-
2008)
10-4-7: STAFF AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE:
The town administration shall assist and coordinate with the planning commission with technical
matters. In order to further assist the planning commission in carrying out its duties, the planning
commission may request the assistance of technical experts and/or employees and agents of the
town, including, but not limited to, engineering, public works, applicable utility agencies, school
district, unified fire authority officials, town marshal, building official, state department of
transportation, town legal counsel, and "affected entities", as defined by Utah Code Annotated
| section 10-20-102(3), as amended and supplemented from time to time. (Ord. 2008-
O-2, 6-12-2008; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)
Ordinance 2026-O-2
Section 3: Amendment. Title 10, Chapter 5, Section 11 is amended as indicated below:
10-5-11: VARIANCES:

A. Application: Any person or entity desiring a waiver or modification of the requirements of
a land use ordinance as applied to a parcel of property that he owns, leases, or in which he holds
some other beneficial interest, may apply to the appeal authority for a variance from the terms of
the ordinance. The appeal authority may grant a variance only if the application for the variance is

| in compliance with the requirements of Utah Code Annotated section 10-20-1102, as
amended and supplemented from time to time.

B. Burden Of Proof: The applicant shall bear the burden of proving that all of the conditions
justifying a variance have been met.

C. Additional Requirements May Be Imposed: In granting a variance, the appeal authority may
impose additional requirements on the applicant that will:

1. Mitigate any harmful effects of the variance; or

2. Serve the purpose of the standard or requirement that is waived or modified.

D. Variances Run With Land: Variances and any requirements imposed by the appeal authority
run with the land.

E. Further Appeal: The appeal authority decision to deny a variance, grant a variance or grant
a variance with conditions may be appealed pursuant to Utah Code Annotated. (Ord. 2008-O-4, 6-
12-2008)

Section 4: Amendment. Title 10, Chapter 11, Section 4 is amended as indicated below:
10-11-4: APPLICATION:

A. The applicant for a subdivision shall prepare and submit a preliminary plat application to
the Town Manager or Town Manager's designee. The application shall include three (3) copies of
a complete preliminary plat and three (3) completed application forms for the subdivision,
including all required maps and charts. All application materials shall be submitted at the same
time in order to be considered for completeness.

B. Application Form and Content: The town administration may create a preliminary plat
application form based upon the requirements of this section. A complete application shall include
all of the following information:

1. Property Information: The date of the application, the name, address, phone number, e-
mail address, and signature of the applicant and the owner of the property, the current zoning of
the property, the location and address of the proposed subdivision, the total acreage of the
subdivision, and the number of proposed lots. All persons with a fee interest in the property shall
sign the subdivision application form. The applicant shall submit a preliminary title report for all
property within the application.

Ordinance 2026-O-2
2. Site Information: The following subdivision site information is required for a complete
application and shall be provided at the same scale as the preliminary subdivision plat, on separate
sheets if necessary:

a. The identification of known and potential natural features on a map, including, but not
limited to, jurisdictional wetlands as identified by the U.S. army corps of engineers, known or
potential natural Waterways, Top of Bank, and any potential natural hazards, including avalanche
paths, liquefaction areas, and areas of soil instability, and all on site vegetation regulated by town
ordinance. A final map identifying known and potential natural features as described in this section
and identified by the building official will be reviewed and approved or denied by the planning
commission as part of the application review process.

b. The location and dimensions of all existing buildings, fence lines and property lines,
overlaid on the proposed subdivision layout, and the location of surrounding manmade features
and improvements, including buildings and roads, and natural features, including significant
landmarks and geologic features.

3. Evidence Of Availability Of Necessary Services: The following information is necessary
to establish the availability of basic services to the proposed subdivision and the preliminary plat
subdivision application is complete only when all basic services are available to the site and to
each proposed subdivision lot, and approved in writing by the designated authority:

a. Culinary Water Requirements: Salt Lake City department of public utilities, water
division, Salt Lake Valley health department, and the Town Manager or Town Manager's designee,
are hereby designated collectively as the "culinary water authority", as further defined in Uta

| GEARERAGHETUGEREA chapter 20, as amended or replaced. Such culinary water
authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed culinary water system for the subdivision. The
applicant shall provide all information required by the culinary water authority (and other
applicable agency described below, if any), including, but not limited to, evidence of the source,
quantity, quality and means of delivery of the proposed culinary water to the proposed subdivision
and each proposed lot. Certain property within the town boundaries may not be eligible to be
served by the town culinary water system or able to be supplied water through the town contract
for water with Salt Lake City, and shall be required to obtain approval from any additional public
or private agency with jurisdiction over the proposed water source or delivery system. The
requirements of the State Division of Drinking Water must be satisfied and Division approval,
where required, shall be obtained by the applicant before a final plat is approved.

b. Wastewater Requirements: Salt Lake Valley health department, environmental health
division, Salt Lake County service area no. 3, Cottonwood improvement district, and the Town
Manager or Town Manager's designee, are hereby designated collectively as the "sanitary sewer

| authority", as further defined in Utah Cade Annotated title 102chapter-9¢ chapter 20, as amended
or replaced. Each sanitary sewer authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed sanitary sewer
system. The applicant shall provide all information and materials as required by the sanitary sewer
authority.

c. Fire And Emergency Requirements: The Unified Fire Authority is hereby designated as

| the "fire authority", as further defined in Utah Code Annotated title 10-chaptera chapter 20, as
amended or replaced. The fire authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed fire suppression
Ordinance 2026-O-2
infrastructure and emergency access to the proposed subdivision. If the proposed subdivision does
not include year round motor vehicle (as defined by Utah Code Annotated) access to all proposed
lots and proposed and existing roads, streets and adjacent properties, the application shall include
an emergency access mitigation plan, approved by the fire authority and the town. The applicant
shall provide all information and materials as required by the fire authority.

d, Subdivision Roads And Streets: All proposed subdivision streets shall be evaluated and

approved by the Town Manager or Town Manager's designee, and if appropriate, the Utah
Department of Transportation. The proposed street layout shall provide adequate and safe year-
round access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets and adjacent properties,
If the proposed subdivision does not include year-round motor vehicle (as defined by Utah Code
Annotated) access to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets and adjacent
properties, the application shall include a parking and access mitigation plan. If the proposed
subdivision will be accessed from a state highway, an appropriate access permit as required by the '
state department of transportation, shal! be provided with the application materials in order to be

a complete application. If the proposed subdivision will be accessed from U.S. Forest Service
property, the applicant shall provide any appropriate access or special use permits as required by
the U.S. Forest Service with the application materials in order to be a complete application.

e. Avalanche Hazards: The town marshal department shall evaluate and approve the
subdivision application provisions for avalanche safety and interlodge controls. The application
shall include maps and descriptions of known avalanche slide paths and shall include a proposed
plat note describing the risks of building in an avalanche zone and an acknowledgment limiting
the town liability for hazards associated with avalanches. A final map identifying known avalanche
slide paths shall be certified by a qualified avalanche expert and will be reviewed and approved or
denied by the planning commission as part of the application review process. The proposed plat
note shall further acknowledge the responsibility of any landowner within the subdivision to
comply with the town interlodge procedures and avalanche design and construction requirements,
and the applicant and current landowner agreement to sign and record the town avalanche hold
harmless agreement concurrently with the recordation of the plat.

f. Additional Information And Materials When Necessary: When the Town Manager or
Town Manager's designee deems necessary due to the characteristics of the property to be

subdivided, the applicant may be required to provide other information or letters of feasibility from
other agencies with jurisdiction over the property to be subdivided, conduct studies, and provide
evidence indicating the suitability of the area for the proposed subdivision, including, but not
limited to, adequacy of public safety and fire protection, geologic or flood hazard, erosion control,
preservation of vegetation, and any other physical or environmental matters in conformance with
the town zoning ordinances. Such additional requirements shall be made of the applicant at the
presubmission meeting, or reasonably soon thereafter. (Ord. 2009-O-3, 6-18-2009; amd. Ord.
2021-O-1, 3-10-2021; Ord. 2023-O0-2, 4-12-2023)

g. Notice: The applicant shall provide the town with two (2) sets of typewritten address
labels and sufficient funds to cover related postage costs to all property owners within three
hundred feet (300') of the boundaries of the proposed subdivision and all affected entities. (Ord.
2024-O-9, 11-13-2024)

Section 5: Amendment. Title 10, Chapter 14, Section 4 is amended as indicated below:
Ordinance 2026-0-2
10-14-4; APPLICATION AND CONCEPTUAL PLAN/PRELIMINARY PLAT:
A. Atany time after the presubmission meeting, a land use applicant shal! submit an application )
as described below and all additional information as required by this section. All application
materials shall be submitted at the same time in order to be considered for completeness.
B. The following shall be submitted to the town manager, unless waived by the town manager
as not applicable:
1. Complete Application And Fees: A complete application form for the proposed land use
and all applicable fees.
2. Application Fees And Technical Expertise And Engineering Fees: To be considered
complete, the application for the land use shall be accompanied by all fees established on the town's
fee schedule. The applicant shall pay all expenses of reviewing and approving the land use, if any,
. including the town's fees for hiring individuals with technical expertise, legal counsel, and
engineers to review the application.
3. Application Information And Materials: A complete application shall include the following
information and materials:
a. Sketch/Site Plan Drawing: A scaled sketch/site plan drawing of the proposed
development site. At a minimum, the site plan shall include the following:
(1) North arrow;
(2) Name of proposed development or land use, if applicable;
(3) Name, phone number, and address of applicant/developer; |
(4) Name, phone number, and address of property owner;
(5) Drawing of proposed improvements, including buildings, driveways, roads, and
parking, and existing vegetation and slopes;
b. Vicinity Map: A vicinity map containing sufficient information to accurately locate the
property shown on the plan;
c. Property Information: Property information, including address, zoning, acreage, and
location of proposed lots or buildings within the proposed land use; and
d. Site Information: Site information, including property lines, fence lines, natural features,
natural hazards, and avalanche hazards.
e. Evidence Of Availability Of Necessary Services: The following information is necessary
to establish the availability of basic services to the proposed land use. The land use application is
complete only when the applicant has submitted evidence that all basic services are available to
the site (and if applicable, to each proposed lot), and the proposed land use has been approved in .
writing by the designated authority.
Ordinance 2026-0-2
(1) Culinary Water Requirements: Salt Lake City department of public utilities, water
division, Salt Lake Valley health department, and the town manager, are hereby designated
| collectively as the "culinary water authority", as further defined in
Section 9a chapter 20, as amended or replaced. Each culinary water authority shall evaluate and
approve the proposed culinary water system for the land use. The applicant shall provide all
information required by the culinary water authority, including, but not limited to, evidence of the
source, quantity, quality, and means of delivery of the proposed culinary water to the proposed
land use, and if applicable, to each proposed lot. Certain property within the town boundaries may
not be eligible to be served by the town culinary water system or able to be supplied water through
the town's contract for water with Salt Lake City, and shall be required to obtain approval from
any additional public or private agency with jurisdiction over the proposed water source or delivery
system, prior to the land use application being deemed complete.

(2) Wastewater Requirements: Salt Lake Valley health department, environmental health
division, Salt Lake County service area no. 3, Cottonwood improvement district, and the town
manager, are hereby designated collectively as the "sanitary sewer authority", as further defined

| in GNC ess HUMMER chapter 20, as amended or replaced. Each sanitary
sewer authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed sanitary sewer system. The applicant shall
provide all information and materials as required by the sanitary sewer authority.

(3) Fire And Emergency Requirements: The unified fire authority is hereby designated as

| the "fire authority", as further defined in SR aTADGAIGMEUNGASEI chapter 20, as
amended or replaced. The fire authority shall evaluate and approve the proposed fire suppression
infrastructure and emergency access to the land use, and if applicable, to each proposed lot. If the
proposed land use does not include year round motor vehicle (as defined by the Utah code) access
to all proposed lots and proposed and existing roads, streets, and adjacent properties, the
application shall include an emergency access mitigation plan, approved by the fire authority and
the town. The applicant shall provide all information and materials as required by the fire authority.

(4) Avalanche Hazards: The town marshal's department shall evaluate and approve the land
use application's provisions for avalanche safety and interlodge controls. The application shall
include maps and descriptions of known avalanche slide paths and, if applicable, shall include a
proposed plat note describing the risks of building in an avalanche zone and an acknowledgment
limiting the town's liability for hazards associated with avalanches. The proposed plat note shall
further acknowledge the responsibility of any landowner within the land use to comply with the
town's interlodge procedures and avalanche design and construction requirements, and the
applicant's and current landowner's agreement to sign and record the town's avalanche hold
harmless agreement concurrently with the recordation of the plat. In all proposed land uses
(including those where a plat is not required), it shall be a condition of the respective approval or
permit to require that every landowner within the proposed development comply with the town's
interlodge procedures and avalanche design and construction requirements, and each applicant and
landowner shall sign and record the town's avalanche hold harmless agreement concurrently with
the issuance of the relevant approval or permit. Other requirements may be imposed on any
particular building or project to address or mitigate potential avalanche hazards. (Ord. 2011-O-5,
11-10-2011; amd. Ord. 2023-O-2, 4-12-2023)

Section 6: Amendment. Title 11, Chapter 1, Section 1 is amended as indicated below:
Ordinance 2026-O-2
11-1-1: STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION:
The legislature of the state of Utah has, in Utah Code Annotated section +0-9a-S0SH fe) 10-20-
505(1\(0), delegated the responsibility of local governmental units to adopt regulations designed
to minimize flood losses. (Ord. 2010-O-1, 3-11-2010; amd. 2010 Code)
Section 7: Effective Date. This ordinance shall go into effect after publication and posting as
required by Utah Code Title 10, Chapter 3.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town of Alta Council on this Gth day of Apw | , 2026.
TO gu ALTA
y: Roger Bourke, Mayor
ATTEST:
QU
Jen Clangy, Town Clerk |
Voting:
Mayor Bourke es
Council Member Anctil Yes Council Member Morgan Wea
. Council Member Schilling Yk Council Member Heimark At
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code
§10-3-711: Popv'\ HN Zoli
Effective date of ordinance: _ Ap \ \ ml 207»
Ordinance 2026-O-2
