|
TOWN OF ALTA
ORDINANCE NO. 2026-O-7
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWN OF ALTA ENACTING TITLE 8 UTILITIES CHAPTER
4 TO THE ALTA CODE, COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM
Preamble |
WHEREAS, in 2019, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 411, codified at Utah |
Code Ann. §§ 54-17-901 to -909 (“Act”), titled the “Community Renewable Energy Act”; and
WHEREAS, in 2024, the Utah State Legislature enacted House Bill 241 and Senate Bill
214 which, collectively, renamed the Act the “Community Clean Energy Act” and amended certain
provisions of the Act; and
WHEREAS, the Act authorizes the Utah Public Service Commission (“Commission”) to :
establish a program (“Program”) whereby towns, municipalities, and counties may cooperate with
qualified utilities to provide electric energy for participating customers from clean energy
resources; and
WHEREAS, the Act provides that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if the town, municipality, or county (“Community”) in which the customer resides
satisfies certain requirements, including: ~
(a) the Community must enter into an agreement with a qualified utility (“Utility
Agreement”):
(i) stipulating to the payment to the qualified utility of the costs of:
| (A) third-party expertise contracted for by the Division of Public Utilities
and the Office of Consumer Services, for assistance with activities associated with
initial approval of the Program; and
(B) providing notice to the Community’s customers as provided in the Act;
(ii) determining the obligation for the payment of any termination charges under
the Act that are not paid by a participating customer and not included in
participating customer rates; and
(iii) identifying any initially proposed replaced asset; . -
(b) the Community must, within ninety (90) days after the date of the Commission’s
order approving the Program, adopt a local ordinance that:
. (i) establishes participation in the Program; and
] !
(ii) is consistent with the terms of the Utility Agreement; and
(c) the Community must comply with any other terms or conditions required by the
Commission; and
. WHEREAS, the Act further authorizes the Commission to adopt administrative rules to
implement the Act and the Commission has adopted such rules as set forth in Utah Administrative
Code R746-314-101 through -402 (“Rules”); and
WHEREAS, the Rules require that a customer of a qualified utility may be served by the
Program if, in addition to the requirements of the Act, the Community in which the customer
| resides also adopts an agreement (“Governance Agreement”) with other eligible Communities to
establish a cooperative decision-making process for Program design, resource solicitation,
resource acquisition, and other Program issues and provides a means of ensuring that eligible
Communities and those that become participating Communities will be able to reach a single joint
decision on any necessary Program issues; and
WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Rules, Town of Alta (“Alta”) entered
into an agreement with other eligible Communities entitled the Interlocal Cooperation Agreement
Among Public Entities Regarding the Community Renewable Energy Program (“Governance
Agreement”), thereby becoming a member of the Community Renewable Energy Agency
(“Agency”), which endeavors to make certain joint decisions about the proposed Program on
behalf of Communities as set forth in the Governance Agreement; and
WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, Alta executed a Utility Agreement
with Rocky Mountain Power, a qualified utility under the Act, on October 4", 2024 which addresses the
issues required by the Act; and
WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on January 24, 2025, and June 4,
2025, Rocky Mountain Power filed an application with the Commission seeking approval of the
Program and the Commission operied Docket No. 25-035-06 to consider the application; and
WHEREAS, consistent with the requirements of the Act, on March 4, 2026, the Commission
issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06 (“Commission Order’) approving the Program; and
WHEREAS, as contemplated in the Act, the Alta Town Council desires to adopt this
ordinance that satisfies the requirements of the Act; and
WHEREAS, the Alta Town Council desires to take actions which it has determined
promotes the health, safety and welfare of Alta’s residents; and
WHEREAS, the Alta Town Council has determined that adoption of this ordinance will
enhance the economic well-being of Alta and its residents through prudent management of Alta’s
financial resources; and
WHEREAS, the Alta Town Council has determined that adoption of this ordinance will
2
help.address concerns related to poor air quality and other environmental concerns due in part to
the use of fossil fuels; and
WHEREAS, the Alta Town Council finds that energy sources utilized by and within Alta
therefore can impact public health, safety and welfare; and :
WHEREAS, recent advances in energy technology have made certain clean energy
resources more economically viable than in the past and, in some cases, more cost-effective than
traditional energy sources; and
WHEREAS, proximity to outdoor recreation is a key economic contributor to Alta and one
which relies on preservation of the environment and protection of natural resources; and
WHEREAS, Alta and its residents have shown an interest in environmental stewardship
. through various initiatives and activities surrounding growth and development; and
WHEREAS, the Alta Town Council believes that determining and undertaking further
actions designed to reduce fossil fuel dependence while appropriately balancing financial
stewardship and promoting economic growth is an important component of safeguarding public
health, safety and welfare; and
_ WHEREAS, the Alta Town Council met in regular session on April 8", 2026 to, among
other things, consider adopting the Program on behalf of Alta’s electric customers; and
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE BODY OF Alta
AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1. Adoption. Alta Code, Title 8 Community Clean Energy Program, Chapter 4 Clean
Energy Program, Community Clean Energy Program, which is published as a code in book form,
is adopted in accordance with Exhibit A herein, copies of which have been filed for use and
examination in the Office of the Alta Clerk (the “Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance”).
Section 2, Savings Clause. In the event one or more of the provisions of this Community Clean
Energy Program Ordinance shall, for any reason, be held to be unenforceable or invalid in any
respect under applicable laws, such unenforceability or invalidity shall not affect any other
provision; and in such an event, this Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall be
construed as if such unenforceable or invalid provision had never been contained herein.
Section 3. Effective Date. This Community Clean Energy Program Ordinance shall take effect
immediately upon the date of its first publication.
***Signatures on Following Page***
3
APPROVED, ADOPTED, AND PASSED and ordered published by the Alta Town Council, this
13" day of May of, 2026.
ATTEST: Alta Town Council
Na 0 Name: & = ij
Jen own Clerk Roger Bourke, Mayo
VOTING OF Alta Town Council
Comet lenemee Ane \ NIZA
Co rave Acnemecl Went ie \ {ees
; as LAS, @y
Masor Rp 2 Ser
APPR D AS TO FORM:
Name:_{2 uF Meleae
Town Attorney
4
EXHIBIT A
TITLE 8 UTILITIES
. CHAPTER 4 CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM ___. ,
COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY PROGRAM )
SECTION 1. Alta’s PARTICIPATION IN COMMUNITY CLEAN ENERGY _
PROGRAM
1-1 Alta hereby establishes its participation in the Community Clean Energy Program
(“Program”) as approved by the Public Service Commission of Utah (“Commission”),
1-2. On March 4, 2026, the Commission issued an order in Docket No. 25-035-06
(“Commission Order”) approving the Program. The Commission Order is on file with the
Commission. The Program’s rates, Rules, and requirements are governed by the Commission
Order, and may be modified from time to time by subsequent Rules and orders adopted by the
Commission. To the extent that the Commission Order or any subsequent rule or order adopted by .
_ the Commission contradicts any portion of this Title, the Commission order or rule or order
adopted by the Commission shall govern.
1-3 ELIGIBLE CUSTOMERS. Pursuant to Utah Code § 54-17-905(5), residential .
customers participating in the net metering program under Utah Code Title 54, Chapter 15, Net
Metering of Electricity, Rocky Mountain Power Schedule 135, are not eligible to participate in the
Program. All other retail electric customers of Rocky Mountain Power within the current and
future boundaries of Alta, including all residential, commercial, and industrial customers, are
eligible to participate in the Program (“Eligible Customer”). Eligible Customers include rooftop
solar customers on Rocky Mountain Power Schedules 136 and 137, which are compensated
through an export credit rather than a net metering credit.
1-4 IMPLEMENTATION DATE. The Program shall be implemented on the date that
RMP sends out the first Notices identified in Section 2, below (“Program Implementation Date”),
Eligible Customers shall be enrolled in the Program if they receive the Notices and decline to opt
out of participation in the Program by the date set forth in the Notices. Consistent with the Act and
the Rules, the Notices shall be sent to each Eligible Customer before the commencement date that
applies to each such customer (“Customer Commencement Date”), as set forth in the Rules.
SECTION 2. CUSTOMER PARTICIPATION IN COMMUNITY CLEAN
ENERGY PROGRAM.
2-1 Each Eligible Customer shall be automatically enrolled in the Program unless the
customer opts out of the Program prior to the Customer Commencement Date.
2-2. NOTICES. As set forth in the Act and the Rules before any Eligible Customer
becomes a participant in the Program, Rocky Mountain Power first shall deliver to each Eligible
Customer certain notices (collectively, the “Notices”) containing content and in the form, manner,
and delivery method as required by the Act and Rules and other orders and Rules. :
2-3. OPT-OUT. Each Eligible Customer may elect not to participate in the Program
and instead to pay applicable existing electric rates by giving notice to Rocky Mountain Power in
. the manner and within the time period set forth in the Notices.
2-3-1 FIRST OPT-OUT NOTICE. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a First
Opt-Out Notice, separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible Customer within
Alta, no earlier than sixty (60) days and no later than thirty (30) days before the Customer
Commencement Date applicable to each customer. The First Opt-Out Notice shall, in all
. material respects, use the form and content of the First Opt-Out Notice as approved by the
Commission.
, 2-3-2 SECOND OPT-OUT NOTICE. Rocky Mountain Power shall provide a
Second Opt-Out Notice, separate from standard monthly bills, to each Eligible Customer
within Alta, at least fifteen (15) days after the First Opt-Out Notice was provided and at ;
least seven (7) days before the Customer Commencement Date applicable to such
customer. The Second Opt-Out Notice shall, in all material respects, use the form and
content of the Second Opt-Out Notice as approved by the Commission.
2-3-3 Each Eligible Customer that receives the First Opt-Out Notice and the
Second Opt-Out Notice as described herein and declines to opt out of the Program by the
customer’s Customer Commencement Date will be enrolled in the Program.
2-4 CUSTOMER OPTION TO OPT IN TO PROGRAM. An Eligible Customer
located within Alta that is not enrolled in the Program may at any time elect to participate in the
Program by providing notice to Rocky Mountain Power in the form and content approved by the
Commission. Following such notice to opt in to the Program, the customer will be enrolled in the
Program starting with the billing period following the notice in which it is reasonably practicable
for Rocky Mountain Power to enroll such customer. The reasonably practicable billing period shall
be based on when the notice was received from the customer and the customer’s billing cycle.
Following enrollment in the Program, the customer shall be subject to all Program requirements.
2-5. CUSTOMER OPTION TO EXIT PROGRAM. Customers enrolled in the Program
may exit the Program by giving notice to Rocky Mountain Power. ,
SECTION 3. TERMINATION FEES
_ 3-1 Ifa customer declines to opt out of the Program prior to the applicable Customer
Commencement Date, but subsequently exits the Program, the exiting customer may be required
to pay a termination fee, as set forth in this Section.
3-2. _ When applicable, the amount of the termination fee shall be based on the rate
schedule of the exiting customer as approved by the Commission and may be modified from time
to time by subsequent orders of the Commission.
3-3. CIRCUMSTANCES IN WHICH TERMINATION FEE SHALL NOT APPLY: A
Termination Fee shall not apply in the following circumstances: .
3-3-1 Any customer that opts out of the Program within the “Cancellation Period”
applicable to that customer, as defined in the Rules.
3-3-2. Any customer that ceases to be an electric customer of Rocky Mountain
Power;
3-3-3 Any customer that moves to a new location that is not within the boundaries :
of a community that participates in the Program;
3-3-4 Any customer that seeks protection through bankruptcy proceedings;
3-3-5 Any customer enrolled in Schedule 3 bill assistance (“Low-Income Lifeline
; Program”).
SECTION 4. ACQUISITION OF CLEAN ENERGY RESOURCES
4-1 For purposes of this section, “clean energy resource” shall have the definition set |
forth in the Act.
4-2 Rocky Mountain Power may adopt or procure one or more clean energy resources |
to serve the needs and goals of the Program. The acquisition of any such clean energy resource
must follow solicitation application and evaluation criteria approved by the Commission.
4-3. Anyclean energy resource adopted or procured by Rocky Mountain Power to serve
the needs and goals of the Program must be approved by the Commission based on a finding the
same is reasonable and in the public interest.
4-4 The Commission shall determine the method of cost recovery for any clean energy
resource acquired to meet Program needs and goals, and the Commission’s determination
regarding cost recovery may affect Program rates.
SECTION 5, PROGRAM RATES AND RATE ADJUSTMENT FILINGS
5-1 Program rates will be determined by the Commission.
5-2 The initial Program rates were determined by the Commission in the Commission
Order.
5-3 Program rates may be adjusted by the Commission from time to time, consistent
with the procedures approved by the Commission for adjusting Program rates.
SECTION 6. UTILITY BILLING FOR PARTICIPATING CUSTOMERS
7 :
6-1 | Rocky Mountain Power shall bill each Participating Customer on a monthly basis
and shall:
6-1-1 include information in its monthly bills to participating customers :
identifying the Program cost; and :
6-1-2 provide notice to participating customers of any change in rates for
participation in the Program.
SECTION 7. Alta PARTICIPATION IN PROGRAM
7-1. Through its membership in the Community Renewable Energy Agency, Alta
participated in the design and approval of the Program and shall participate in future decisions
regarding clean energy resource solicitation, clean energy resource acquisition, and certain other
Program issues. :
7-2 Consistent with Utah Code § 54-17-903(2)(a), Alta entered into an agreement with
Rocky Mountain Power (“RMP”) regarding the facilitation of the Program (“Utility Agreement”).
Pursuant to the Utility Agreement, Alta: .
7-2-1 shall pay for the costs of third-party expertise contracted for in connection
with the Program’s development and initial approval by the Commission;
7-2-2 shall pay its proportional costs associated with RMP providing the Notices
to the Alta’s customers as discussed in Section 2, above;
7-2-3 Termination charges not paid by a participating customer shall be included
in participating customer rates and shall not be paid by Alta;
7-2-4 There shall be no initially proposed “Replaced Asset” as that term is defined
by Utah Code § 54-17-902(15).
7-3. Alta has already approved the appropriation of funds and has already paid those
funds to the Agency for the Agency to make payments for the costs of third-party expertise
contracted for in connection with the Program’s development and initial approval by the
Commission pursuant to the Governance Agreement.
7-4 Alta hereby approves the appropriation of funds to pay its proportional costs :
associated with RMP providing the Notices to the Alta’s customers as discussed in Section 2,
above.
7-5 Alta shall not be obligated to pay any costs of the Program other than those costs
set forth herein and any costs that Alta may bear as a utility customer that participates in the
Program, if applicable.
8
