TOWN OF ALTA
ORDINANCE # 2026-0-4
AN ORDINANCE MOVING PETITIONS TO REZONE FROM WITHIN THE ZONING
CHAPTERS INTO THE GENERAL PROVISIONS CHAPTER

WHEREAS, Alta Town Code (ATC) 10-6A-11 and 10-6C-11 references petitions to
rezone;

WHEREAS, other zoning chapters do not reference petitions to rezone;

WHEREAS, the Town desires to clarify that any petition to rezone follows the same
process and requirements and be located in the general provisions;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE ALTA TOWN COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1: Amendment. Alta Town Code Sections 10-1-8, 10-6A-11 and 10-6C-11 are amended
as shown in Exhibit A.
Section 2: Effective Date. This ordinance shall go into effect after publication and posting as
required by Utah Code Title 10, Chapter 3
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Town of Alta Council on this &. th day of Apa | 2026.

TOWN PESTA
By: Roger Bourke, Mayor
ATTEST:
CL Cin

Jen Clancy, Town Clerk
Voting:
Mayor Bourke 324
Council Member Anctil Wed Council Member Morgan YES
Council Member Schilling “e & Council Member Heimark = eS
Ordinance 2026-O0-4
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code
g10-3-711:_ Ape) A, 202%
Effective date of ordinance: Prev, \ Lode
Ordinance 2026-O-4
| Exhibit A:
10-1-8: AMENDMENTS:

A. Authorized; Submit To Planning Commission: The town council may, from time to
time, amend the number, shape, boundaries or area of any zone, or any regulation of or
within any district or districts or zones or any other provisions of this title. Any such
amendment shall not be made or become effective unless the same shall have been
proposed by or be first submitted for the review and recommendation to the council by the
planning commission.

B. Denial To Reclassify: Denial of an application to amend the zoning map to reclassify
any parcel or property shall prohibit the filing of another application to amend the zoning
map to reclassify the same parcel of property, or any portion thereof, to the same zone
classification within one year from the date of the final denial of the previous application,
unless the planning commission finds that there has been a substantial change in the
circumstances or sufficient new evidence since the denial of the previous application to
merit consideration of a second application within the one year time period. (Ord., 6-8-
1989; amd. Ord. 2025-0-5, 11-12-2025)

C. Petitions to Rezone

1. Content Of Petition: Any request to amend an existing zoning ordinance or to
amend and change the zoning of any particular property within the town shall be
submitted to the town clerk in the form of a written and verified petition. Said petition shall
include the following elements:

a._The full name and address of the petitioner.

b. A statement of all legal, contractual and equitable interest in the property
as to which zoning amendment or change is sought, including the names and addresses of
all such individuals.

c._A legal description by metes and bounds, or otherwise, of the property as
to which zoning amendment or change is sought.

d. A statement as to the reasons and basis for the amendment or change to
any zoning ordinance or land use classification.

e. Ifreal property is to be developed pursuant.to the proposed amended
and/or changed zoning ordinance, a statement in detail of the plans and documents
relating to such development, including those elements as required in seetiens10-6A-3

i j i icle all other provisions in the zoning chapter
including but not limited to conditional uses, lot area, lot width and slope requirements,
yard regulations, height requirements, density regulations, maximum lot coverage and
special regulations... The petitioner shall attach two (2) copies of plans, specifications and
other documents as may be necessary to fully describe in detail the nature, character and
extent of the proposed development as to which the petition relates.
f. A statement as to the availability of all utility services.

2. Fees: At the time the petition is filed, the applicant shall also pay to the town clerk all
required fees as set by resolution of the town council.
3. Planning Commission Review: Upon receipt of any petition filed under this section and
payment of all appropriate fees by petitioner, the town clerk shall forward forthwith such
petition and all attachments to the chairperson of the planning commission for review,
analysis and action by that commission pursuant to law at the next regularly scheduled
meeting of the commission.

2 4 all ieee! Land table i int]

| . 1is . " | 2 ~ ° 7

“dj esl leemtipasian:

including 10-6A-9-of this article Tl 5 sahil £2) ; Eslecns.

cs Jabili € all utili -yieos-(Ord,6-8-4989)
—B-Fees Atte tine-the petitionis ted theapplicantshallasepayts the townclericall
;
L .
40-66-14 PETIFIONS FOREZONE:
A ontent OF Datitinn: Aniw raqiue Kam end an eayvistina soning ordinancad fp 9amand
= ct 2 nao ave O71 (r = si Fran rers Ari in 2 OVA 2 ava’ him i ava Cy a¥a'
o oO , oO
{\ ava oO rintinn b mara 2a ct Orofn pa Anca avamataatave NA ich
4 A aman otha ra On nd i o2 tho amandmant ar chanaa ta = Ataben Wa
2 averava = ing arcdin = Q mtanvats' in aie i ~ a¥a' re Hino Cy aaa OL On ate
5 = 5
= “ 5
hi. sti Q ave atitinnar = Tiare Ania CY = = ava ifi ian ava a ava
aqnirad faa at th acg inno A tary 9 } Ord 6.0 O2Q0+ amd O41 acta
Natitian ava abana Cy ave’ s ia ataiwatames ae nning Am mi ian ‘ata a Watw,
moaatina ha cammiccian Ord 6.0 OQQ.- pdt fe () a () ()
