TOWN OF ALTA
. ORDINANCE # 2026-0-12
ORDINANCE ADOPTING FIRE RESTRICTIONS MATCHING THE STATE OF
UTAH STAGE 2 FIRE RESTRICTIONS WITHIN THE TOWN OF ALTA
WHEREAS, the State Forester of Utah, pursuant to Utah Code Section 65A-8-212, has
issued a Stage 2 Fire Restriction Order effective June 26, 2026, due to extreme wildfire risk
associated with ongoing drought conditions, high temperatures, and critically low fuel moisture;
and
WHEREAS, the Stage 2 Fire Restrictions apply to all state lands and all unincorporated
private lands within the State of Utah, but do not automatically apply within incorporated .
municipalities; and
WHEREAS, the Town of Alta (“‘Alta’’) is located in an area with elevated wildfire risk and
limited emergency access, making fire prevention efforts especially critical to the safety of
residents, visitors, and natural resources; and
WHEREAS, the Unified Fire Authority has recommended that Alta adopt the State’s Stage
2 Fire Restrictions to align with regional public safety efforts and promote consistent messaging
and enforcement across jurisdictions; and :
WHEREAS, Alta intends to adopt these same restrictions for uniformity among .
neighboring jurisdictions, and to strengthen compliance, communication, and community
awareness during periods of high fire danger;
NOW THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE ALTA TOWN COUNCIL AS FOLLOWS:
Section 1: Alta hereby adopts the State of Utah’s Stage 2 Fire Restrictions for the entire Town of
Alta including the following prohibitions:
1. Building, maintaining, attending, or using any fire, campfire, or stove fire. This includes
. charcoal grills and barbecues, coal and wood burning stoves and tent stoves and includes
use at homes and in developed camping and picnic grounds,
Devices using pellets, pressurized liquid or gas (stoves, grills or lanterns) that include
shutoff valves are allowed when used in an area at least three feet or more from
flammable material such as grasses or pine needles.
2. Smoking, except within an enclosed vehicle, trailer, or building, a developed recreation . |
site, or while stopped in an area that is paved or barren and free of dry vegetation. |
3. Discharging or using any fireworks, tracer ammunition, pyrotechnic devices, including
exploding targets.
4. Cutting, welding, or grinding metal in areas of dry vegetation.
2026-O0-12 Page 1 of 2
5. Operating a motorcycle, chainsaw, ATV, or other small internal combustion engine
without an approved and working spark arrestor.
6. Any on-duty firefighter in the performance of an official duty is exempt from these
prohibitions.
Section 2: Violation of this Ordinance is a Class B misdemeanor punishable as provided by
Alta Town Code.
Section 3: Effective Date. This ordinance shall become effective upon publication and posting
and shall remain in effect within the incorporated limits of Alta until the earlier of October 31, |
2026 or by subsequent action of the Town Council.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Alta Council of Alta, Utah, this 8" day of July in the year 2026.
TOWN OF ALTA,
Roger Bourke, Mayor

ATTEST:

ary Chon
Jef Clancy, Town Clefk
Voting:
Mayor Bourke 9
Council Member Anctil AS Council Member Morgan yeS
Council Member Schilling \’s Council Member Heimark pice
(Complete as Applicable) Ny bom
Ordinance/summary published on Utah state noticing website on VAN Ae b
Effective date of Ordinance: , Ye 4 U LA py) lp

/ j
|
|

2026-O-12 Page 2 of 2
