19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones
A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or right-of-
   way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.
    1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set forth in
       Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of this Code.
    2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
       Authority.
    3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a driveway
       or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the applicable
       provisions of this Title.
B. Except as provided in subsection C, paved or gravel parking areas or driveways may not occupy more
   than sixty percent (60%) of the area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may
   install one driveway that exceeds the percent (60%) parking or driveway rule as long as that driveway
   does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.
C. Parking areas in the front yard may exceed 50% of the front yard area under the following conditions:
    1. The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces on the lot do not exceed 60% of the total
       lot area, unless the exception is needed to comply with the parking requirement for an accessory
       dwelling unit, in which case the combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces on the lot
       may not exceed 70% of the total lot area, and;
    2. The municipal engineer verifies that the site plan as proposed will not adversely impact the
       municipal or local storm drain system, and;
    3. Either:
        a. A landscape planting area of at least 500 square feet is maintained in the front yard, or:
        b. A front yard parking and landscape standard specific to a platted subdivision with approval of
           the majority of the homeowners is submitted for review and approved by the planning
           commission.
D. Paved Parking. Paved parking spaces within or adjacent to the driveway may be used to park or store
   motor vehicles and recreational vehicles in a front, side, or rear yard, provided that no parking space
   is allowed within the clear view area of intersecting streets. Parking or storage of motor vehicles in
   the unpaved portion of the front yard of a residential use r residentially-zoned property is prohibited,
   except where a gravel parking pad is installed in compliance with subsection 19.48.040.E. A legal
   driveway in the front yard may be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.
E. Gravel Parking. A parking pad consisting of six inches of compacted gravel may be located between a
   paved driveway and the nearest side lot line in a front yard, provided the gravel parking pad is not
   within the clear view area of intersecting streets. Motor vehicles and recreational vehicles may be
   parked or stored on said gravel parking pad provided the parking pad is kept weed free. Parking pads
   consisting of six inches of compacted gravel may also be located in a side yard or rear yard provided
   they are accessible by paved driveway.
F. Commercial Vehicles. Commercial vehicles shall not be parked or stored on residential property in an
   R-1 or R-2 zone, except in the following circumstances:
   1. Commercial vehicles may be parked on a property in conjunction with lawfully permitted
      construction, maintenance, or site development activities so long as said activities are diligently
      pursued.
   2. One commercial vehicle may be parked behind the front line of the dwelling and screened from
      view from public streets or neighboring properties with an opaque fence that is at least six feet
      (6’) tall, provided it is parked on a paved surface. The commercial vehicle may not exceed Class
      5 (two (2)-axle, six (6) tire single unit trucks) in Federal Highway Administration vehicle
      classification.
   3. One commercial vehicle may be parked in the front yard or side yard of a dwelling in the R-1 or
      R-2 Zones upon issuance of a permit by Planning and Development Services, as long as all of the
      following criteria are met:
       a. No other commercial vehicle is parked or stored on the property;
       b. The operator of the vehicle is required to be on call twenty-four (24) hours a day to use the
          vehicle in response to an emergency;
       c. The commercial vehicle is parked on a paved surface;
       d. The commercial vehicle is parked entirely on private property, not parked on or over the
          street or sidewalk; and
       e. The commercial vehicle does not exceed Class 5 (two (2)-axle, six (6) tire single unit trucks)
          in Federal Highway Administration vehicle classification.
