Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




            RESOLUTION NO. R2026-07                                                     February 9,2026

                          A RESOLUTION OF THE KEARNS CITY COTINCIL ADOPTING A
                                           PERSONNEL POLICY

                                                             RECITALS

                  WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. $ 10-3-717(1Xc) authorizes the Kearns City Council (the
            "Council") to adopt personnel policies and guidelines by resolution;

                   WHEREAS, the Council desires to adopt a personnel policy pursuant to Utah Code Ann.
            $ l0-3-717(lXc) and consistent with Part 1l of Title 10 of the Utah Code; and

                   WHEREAS, the Council has determined that the personnel policy attached to this
            Resolution will serve the best interests of Kearns City and the general public.

                  NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Council that the personnel
           policy attached to this Resolution, is hereby approved effective immediately.

                     APPROVED and ADOPTED this 9th day of February,2026

                                                                    KEARNS CITY



                                                                    By
                                                                                V


           ATTEST                                                     APPROVED AS TO FORM



             T
           Diana Baun, Recorder
                               Rv;'ttz'"
                                                                      KEARNS ATTORNEY



           Voting:

                     Council Member Schaeffer voting                 0il0
                                                                    -------t-
                     Council Member Longtin voting                   wy_
                     Council Member Butterfield voting               (t t'0
                     Council Member Colby voting
                                                                    4L
                     Mayor Yaldezvoting
                                                                    ry

                                                                I
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




            KEARNS CITY
                                                PERSONNEL POLICY
                                                    Adopted February 9,2026

            ARTICLE I - GENERAL

                    Section I -Name: This will be known as the Kearns City Personnel Policy (the "Policy")

                    Section 2 - Purpose and Implementation: The Policy has been adopted for the purpose of
            guiding the City's efforts for quality performance, equity in employment, and career development
            of its employees. This Policy will be applied in conformance with all applicable federal and state
            laws and regulations, including but not limited to Title 10, Chapter 3, Part 1l of the Utah Code.
            This Policy does not create any contractual rights for employees.

                    Section 3 - Definitions: The following definitions will apply for the purposes ofthis Policy:

                     1. "Council" means the Kearns City Council.
                   2. "Contractor" or "Independent Contractor" means, consistent with Utah Code Ann. $
                34A-2-103(2Xb)(i) or applicable successor statute, any person engaged in the performance of
                any work for the City who, while so engaged, is:

                         a. Engaged only in the performance of a definite job or piece of work on behalf of the
                             City;

                         b. Independent of the City in all that pertains to the execution of their job or piece of
                             work;

                         c. Not subject to the routine rule or control of the City;
                         d. Subordinate to the City only in effecting a result according to City's design.
                    3. "Employee(s)" or "Staff' means a person or persons employed for wages or salary by
                the City.

                    4. "Ethics Act" means the Utah Public Officers' and Employees' Ethics Act, Utah Code
                Ann.$$ 67-16-l et seq., or applicable successor statute.

                    5. "Family and Medical Leave" means unpaid, job-protected leave for specified family
                and medical reasons under the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993, as amended, 29 USC
                $ 2601 et seq.

                    6. "FLSA" means the Fair Labor Standards Act, l9 U.S.C. 201 to 219



                                                               2
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                     7. "Full-time Employee" means an employee hired to work more than 30 hours per week
                on a regular basis in an established job.

                     8. "GAAP" means Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.
                     9. "Mayor" means the Mayor of the Kearns City
                     10. "Part-time Employee" means employment in an established job requiring not more than
                30 hours per week.

                     I 1. "Policy" means this Personnel Policy.

                     12. "Public Officer" means a member of the Council consistent with Utah Code Ann. $ 76-
                 l-601(13) or applicable successor statute.

                     13. "Public Property" means, consistent with Utah Code Ann. $ 76-8-101(5)(a) or
                applicable successor statute, real or personal property that is owned, held, or managed by the
                City, including real or personal property that is transferred by the City to an independent
                contractor which remains public property while in the possession of an independent contractor
                of the City for the purpose of providing a program or service for, or on behalf of the City.

                    l4. "Public Servant" means, consistent with Utah Code Ann. $ 76-1-101.5 or applicable
                successor statute, the following, who become public servants upon their election, appointment,
                contracting, or other selection, regardless of whether the person has begun to officially occupy
                the position of a public servant:

                         a. A public officer;
                         b. An appointed official, employee, consultant, or independent contractor of the City;
                             or

                         c   A person hired or paid by the City to perform a government function.

                     15. "Temporary Employee" means employment in a job established for a specific period
                of time or for the duration of a specific project or group of assignments. A temporary employee
                may work full-time or part-time with the understanding that the employment will be terminated
                at the conclusion of a specific time or at the completion of a specific project.

                     16. "City" means Kearns City

                   Section 4 - Discrimination Prohibited: One of the reasons for the Policy is to insure that
            no employee or applicant for employment will be discriminated against in any personnel action by
            reason of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, political affiliation, age or disability and to
            safeguard their privacy, statutory rights, and constitutional rights as citizens.

                     Section 5 - Fair               Practices : It is the intent and purpose of the Council to
            assure equality and quality in all phases of the employment process. [n so doing, the Council


                                                              J
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




            intends to comply with all applicable State and Federal requirements pertaining to fair
            employment practices.

                      Section 6 - Professionalism: All employees are expected to accept and adhere to high
            standards of personal and professional conduct. This not only involves sincere respect for the
            rights and feelings of others, but also demands that employees refrain from behavior that might
            be harmful to themselves, their co-workers and/or the City, or negatively impact those persons
            and organizations served by the City or the perception of the City by the public at large. An
            employee whose performance, work habits, overall attitude or demeanor becomes unsatisfactory
            or who fails to perform assigned duties and responsibilities at prescribed levels may be subject to
            disciplinary action, including termination.

                    Section 7 - Council Review: The Council will periodically review the personnel policies
            to ensure that they conform to the requirements of state and federal law.

            ARTICLE II _ HIRING & TERMINATION

                    Section 1 - Job Description: Before an applicant may be hired or an existing employee may
            be promoted to a new or revised position, a job description must be prepared and the position must
            be evaluated, approved by the Council, and a salary or pay level determined in accordance with
            the applicant's skills and qualifications. A job description is a description of the general duties,
            responsibilities, skills, degrees required, and other qualifications necessary to adequately perform
            a particular job.


                    Section 2 - At Will: Except as otherwise required by Utah Code Ann. $ 10-3-1105 or
            another applicable provision of law, all City employees, both full{ime and part-time, will be "at
            will;" and will acknowledge in writing that: (1) the employee's employment status is either
            appointed or at-will, as the case may be; and (2) the employee has voluntarily waived the
            procedures required in Utah Code Ann. $ 10-3-1106. An At-Will Employment Acknowledgement
            and Wiaver is included at the end of this policy. The City will not take any action to promise or
            otherwise imply guaranteed employment to any employee on any other basis.

                    Section 3 - Job Advertising: All announcements and employment advertisements will
            comply with equal employment opportunity requirements. All such notices must specifu the person
            for whom applications are to be obtained, the person to whom completed applications are to be
            returned, and the deadline for filing an application. Such notices should contain a statement
            indicating that the City is an equal opportunity employer. Generally, the City may post job
            announcements with the Department of Workforce Services and/or may be advertised in a
            newspaper published and/or distributed in Utah or on a related industry website or other job search
            website.

                    Section 4 - Employment Agencies and Search Consultants: The City may use private
            employment agencies and search consultants if the Council has reason to believe that a qualified
            candidate will not be attracted as a result of the procedures of this Chapter, or if the Council has
            reason to believe that the engagement of such agencies or consultants will result in additional
            qualified candidates applying for the position.



                                                             4
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                   Section 5 * Hiring: All job applicants will complete such application forms and evaluations
            as required by the Council. In conducting any ability tests the Council may require, reasonable
            accommodations will be made for disabled applicants upon request.

                    Section 6 - Interviews: The Council will select an interview pool from those applicants
            who have passed the preliminary job application form screening and any ability tests that have
            been administered. During the interview, each applicant will be asked only questions pertaining to
            the applicant's professional background, experience, training, education, and qualifications for the
            job. Applicants may not be asked about their marital or family status or pregnancy, religion, age,
            gender or sex, race, ethnicity or color, or disability. If references are contacted, to the extent
            practical, an equal number of references will be contacted for each applicant giving permission for
            the contact.

                   Section 7 - Notification Procedures: Before a person is offered a position, the offer must
            be evaluated and approved by the Council and any applicable direct-line supervisor. The job offer
             must include the basic conditions of employment. If the offer is extended verbally, a follow-up
             written offer must be delivered to the applicant within a reasonable time after the verbal offer has
             been extended. The written offer must be signed by the applicant before the applicant may assume
             duties as a City employee. If the position in question qualifies as an "at will' position, the written
            job offer must clearly state the job description, salary, conditions of employment, that the position
             is "at will," and that the offer is not final until the candidate signs and returns the written offer
            letter. The offer letter should also include the job title; the name of the supervisor; if applicable; a
             statement that the job title, job description, and identification of the supervisor may change over
            time; the starting date; disclosure of the probationary period during which the employee may be
            terminated for no cause and without explanation; and any contingencies or conditions to the job
            offer (such as passing a drug test). Once a written offer has been signed by the candidate, the offer
            is final. The original of the final offer is to be maintained by the City as part of its personnel files,
            with a copy to be given to the new employee.

                   Section 8 - Notification of Closing: All recruiting sources used in the recruiting process
            should be notified of the closing of the job opening as soon as is reasonably practicable.

                                -
                   Section 9 Orientation: Each newly hired employee will complete necessary paperwork
            and receive orientation as a new employee of the City on the first day of work or as reasonably
            practicable thereafter.

                    Section l0 - Immisration               and Control Act of 1986: In accordance with the
            Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, all new employees must provide proof of identity
            and employment status by completing an employment eligibility verification form as required by
            the U.S. Department of Justice Immigration and Naturalization Service. The newly hired employee
            must declare, under penalty of perjury, that he/she is a United States citizen, a lawful permanent
            resident alien, or an alien otherwise authorized for employment in the United States.




                                                               5
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                     Section 11 - Termination. This policy establishes standards and procedures for the
            termination of at-will employees of the City and is intended to promote fairness, consistency,
            documentation, and legal compliance while preserving the at-will nature of employment; it applies
            to all employees designated as at-will and does not apply to employees covered by an employment
            contract, or who may not be designated as at-will by statute. All covered employees are employed
            at will, meaning employment may be terminated at arry time by either the employee or the City,
            with or without notice and with or without cause, and nothing in this policy creates a contract or
            alters at-will status; although cause is not required, termination decisions may be based on factors
            including but not limited to unsatisfactory performance, misconduct, policy violations,
            insubordination, dishonesty, harassment, safety violations, misuse of public resources, failure to
            maintain required credentials, organizational restructuring, position elimination, or for reasons
            determined to be in the best interest of the City. Decisions to terminate an employee shall be made
            by the Council. In the event of termination, the City will provide written notice of termination
            stating the effective date, final pay, and return-of-property requirements, and other information
            relating to the termination. The omission of any such information shall not render the termination
            invalid. At will termination decisions are not subject to internal grievance or appeal unless required
            by statute. No termination decision may be based on unlawful discrimination, retaliation, protected
            speech, lawful whistleblowing, protected leave, or any other protected classification or activity
            under applicable law. This policy may be modified at any time by the City and does not create any
            guarantee of continued employment or procedural rights beyond those required by law.

            ARTICLE III - DISCPLINARY ACTION

                    Section I - General: A11 disciplinary actions except termination are intended to be
            corrective and constructive rather than punitive, and should be carried out with the intention of
            obtaining compliance with policies, orders, procedures, standards of conduct, expected
            performance standards and/or improve attitude.

                           2 - Disci                  There will be five types of disciplinary actions that may
            be used by the City: (1) reprimand; (2) suspension; (3) suspension-without pay; (4) restitution for
            damage to the City property or to other property; (5) demotion; and (6) termination. All
            disciplinary decisions must be documented in writing and given to the employee, with the City
            retaining a copy for its records. Unless the Council designates otherwise, it must approve all
            disciplinary actions. No employee will be disciplined because of political affiliation, age, race,
            gender, color, disability, national origin, religious beliefs, or other protected class established by
            state of federal law. Notwithstanding these provisions, all City employees, both full+ime and part-
            time, will be at-will employees and may be terminated at-will by the Council, at any time, without
            cause or prior notice, for any reason or for no reason at all.

                   Section 3 - Aooeals     Disciplinary Actions: Appeals of the disciplinary hearing decision,
           may be made to the Mayor for review by the Council within fifteen (15) working days after the
           employee received a copy of the disciplinary decision. The Council will review the appeal at its
           next regularly scheduled meeting, or at a special meeting if the next regularly scheduled meeting
           will take place thirty (30) calendar days after the date the appeal was received. By majority vote,
           the Council may reverse, uphold or modiS the disciplinary decision. The Council's decision




                                                              6
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




            regarding the appeal will be in writing and given to the employee within thirty (30) working days
            from the date the appeal was filed with the Mayor.

                    Section 4 - Limitations: Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. $ l0-3-l106, an employee subject to
            Utah Code Ann. $ 10-3-1105, may not be discharged, suspended without pay, or involuntarily
            transferred to a position with less remuneration because of the employee's politics or religious
            belief; or incident to, or through changes, either in the elective officers, governing body, or head
            of City departments. Appeals made in response to alleged violations of this Section will be made
            in accordance with Utah Code Ann. $ 10-3-l106.

            ARTICLE IV _ GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE

                    Section 1 - Complaints: Any employee alleging a grievance is encouraged to resolve the
            problem through an informal discussion with their immediate supervisor or the Council. If the
            results of such a discussion are not satisfactory, the employee will file a formal written grievance
            with the Council. The Council will authorize an investigation of such complaints and, based upon
            the findings, may present charges against any person derelict, or discriminatory in considering the
            grievance. A grievance must be filed in writing and clearly state the City policy, state law and\or
            federal law alleged to have been violated. Failure to include or identifu a violation shall result in
            the waiver of that violation or ground on appeal. All grievances must be filed within thirty (30)
            calendar days following the alleged violation of any City policy, law, state law, or federal law.

                    Section 2 - Complaint Review: The Mayor will investigate the complaint. The Mayor will
            issue a written report to the employee and the Council setting forth findings and recommendations
            for the resolution of the grievance conclusion of the investigation. The employee may accept the
            recommendations of the Mayor, or file a written appeal to the Council within five (5) working
            days of receiving the Mayor's recommendation. After hearing the grievance appeal, the Council
            will provide the employee with a written decision. The Council's decision will be final.

            ARTICLE V _ EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT

                   Section 1 - Employee Evaluation: Personnel evaluation is closely related to employee
            development, promotion, and compensation. The Council may designate a Council member or
            supervising employee to hold regular goal-setting interviews with subordinates and regular follow-
            up meetings to motivate, train, and develop employees.

                    Section 2 - Employee Development and Training: When the Council, or a supervisor with
            the approval of the Council, requires that an employee attend a formal training program, the City
            will pay all reasonable and pre-authorized costs associated with the training. Employees may also
            ask the Council for approval to attend trainings related to their position. The Council may, in its
            sole discretion, provide assistance to an employee who undertakes a course of study which leads
            to a job-related degree. In some cases, irregular work schedules may be arranged as a means of
            accommodating class schedules.




                                                             7
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




             ARTICLE VI _ SEXUAL HARASSMENT


             Section I - Policy Statement and Prohibition. The City is committed to providing all employees,
             elected officials, applicants, volunteers, contractors, and members of the public with a work
             environment free from sexual harassment and other forms of unlawful discrimination. The City is
             also committed to preventing sexual harassment between elected officials and employees and
             between City representatives and members of the public served by the City. Sexual harassment in
             any form is unacceptable and prohibited. Any employee or official who engages in sexual
             harassment is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination, censure, or other
             action as may be allowed by law. Sexual harassment constitutes unlawful discrimination under
             federal, state, and local law.

             Section 2 - Definition of Sexual Harassment. For purposes of this policy, sexual harassment
             includes unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal, visual, or
             physical conduct of a sexual nature when, for example:

                    1. Submission to such conduct is made either explicitly or implicitly a term or condition of
                       an individual's employment or participation in City services;
                 2. Submission to or rejection of such conduct is used as the basis for employment or
                    service-related decisions affecting an individual; or
                 3. Such conduct has the purpose or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual's
                    work perforrnance or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive working environment.

            Sexual harassment may occur between individuals of the same or different gender and may be
            physical, verbal, visual, or psychological in nature. A series of incidents may constitute sexual
            harassment even if one incident alone would not. Sexual harassment is prohibited whether
            committed by coworkers, supervisors, managers, elected officials, vendors, contractors,
            consultants, clients, or members of the public. This policy applies to conduct occurring in the
            workplace and in any work-related setting, including meetings, travel, training, conferences, and
            work-related social events, and may apply to conduct outside working hours or off City premises
            when it affects the work environment or City operations.

            Section 3 - Examples of Prohibited Conduct: Sexual harassment may include a wide range of
            conduct, including but not limited to:

                a     Physical assaults of a sexual nature, including rape, sexual battery, molestation, attempts
                      to commit such acts, or intentional sexual touching, pinching, patting, grabbing, brushing
                      against another's body, or poking.
                a     Unwanted sexual advances, propositions, or corunents, including sexual jokes, gestures,
                      noises, remarks, or comments about a person's sexuality or sexual experience.
                a     Preferential treatment or promises of benefits in exchange for sexual conduct, or threats
                      or adverse treatment for refusing sexual conduct.
                a     Intentionally making an employee's job more difficult because of the employee's sex or
                      in response to rejection ofsexual advances.




                                                               8
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                 a   Displaying or distributing sexually suggestive, sexually demeaning, or pornographic
                     materials in the workplace, including pictures, posters, calendars, graffiti, objects, or
                     electronic content.
                 a   Reading, displaying, or publicizing sexually suggestive or pornographic materials in the
                     work environment.
                 a   Describing or conveying stories or incidences that are sexually suggestive or
                     pornographic.

             These examples are illustrative and not exhaustive.

            Section 4 - Scope and Application. This policy applies to all applicants, employees, elected
            officials, appointed officials, volunteers, interns, and contractors. It applies to conduct involving
            City personnel and also to harassment by or toward third parties such as vendors, consultants,
            customers, and members of the public. Employees are prohibited from engaging in sexual
            harassment regardless of whether the conduct occurs on City premises or during working hours.
            The City may investigate and impose discipline for prohibited conduct occurring off duty or off
            premises when it impacts the workplace or City business. This policy may not be used as a basis
            for excluding individuals from business or work-related activities on the basis of sex or any other
            protected characteristic.



            Section 5 - Documentation and Immediate Response. Any employee or member of the public who
            believes they are being subjected to sexual harassment should document the conduct, including
            dates, times, locations, persons involved, specific behaviors, and names of witnesses. When
            reasonably possible and safe, the individual should make their disapproval known to the alleged
            harasser and state that the conduct is unwelcome. Employees must immediately report any
            circumstance that they believe may result in physical harm to the City Manager or Mayor.
            Individuals experiencing threats or criminal conduct outside the workplace should also contact
            appropriate law enforcement.

            Section 6 - Reporting and Grievance Procedure. Employees who believe they have been subjected
            to or observed sexual harassment or inappropriate sexual conduct must promptly report the conduct
            to a supervisor, the City Manager, the Mayor, or Council Member. If the employee is
            uncomfortable reporting to their direct supervisor, the report should be made to another supervisor,
            the City Manager, or the Mayor. Members of the public may report suspected harassment by City
            employees or officials to the Mayor or a council member.

            Employees are encouraged to submit complaints in writing, but a complaint may be made verbally
            or in writing. Supervisors who receive a complaint or otherwise become aware of possible sexual
            harassment must promptly forward the information to the City Manager, Mayor, or designated
            official. The City cannot correct conduct it does not know about; therefore, prompt reporting is
            required.

            Section 7 - Investiqation. Upon receiving a report or complaint of sexual harassment, the City
            shall promptly and impartially investigate the report. The Mayor, City Manager, or City Council
            may retain an independent investigator. The investigation may include interviews of the



                                                             9
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




             complainant, the accused, and witnesses, and review of documents, communications, and other
             evidence. The City will comply with applicable federal and state legal requirements in conducting
             investigations. The City will make reasonable efforts to maintain confidentiality to the extent
             possible, but confidentiality cannot be guaranteed. The City may, but is not required to, inform the
             complainant of the outcome and any corrective action taken.

             Section 8 - Cooperation and Non-Retaliation. All employees are required to cooperate fully and
             truthfully in any investigation. Retaliation against any person who reports sexual harassment in
             good faith, files a complaint, or participates in an investigation is strictly prohibited. Any employee
             who engages in retaliation is subject to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.

            Section 9 - Disciplinary and Corrective Action. If an investigation substantiates a violation of this
            policy, the City will take prompt and appropriate corrective and disciplinary action. Discipline will
            be based on the severity and frequency ofthe conduct and applicable law and personnel policies,
            and may include counseling, training, written reprimand, censure, probation, suspension,
            demotion, reassignment, removal of supervisory duties, or other corrective measures, up to and
            including termination of employment or removal from appointed position as permitted by law. The
            City is not required to use progressive discipline when more serious discipline is warranted.

            Section 10 - Anti-Retaliation and Reporting of Discrimination. Harassment. and Retaliation

                    The City encourages the reporting of all perceived incidents of discrimination, harassment,
            or retaliation, regardless of when, where, or in what forum the conduct occurs. The City will
            promptly and thoroughly investigate such reports. The City strictly prohibits retaliation against
            any employee, applicant, elected official, volunteer, contractor, or member of the public who, in
            good faith, reports discrimination or harassment, files a complaint, or participates honestly and
            openly in an investigation or proceeding related to such a report.

            Retaliation for good-faith reporting or participation in an investigation is a serious violation of
            City policy and will result in disciplinary action as permitted by law and City personnel policies,
            up to and including termination of employment or removal from appointed position. Acts of
            retaliation must be reported immediately and will be promptly investigated and addressed.

            It is the responsibility of the City and each employee and elected official to help maintain an
            environment free of discrimination, harassment, and retaliation. All employees are expected to
            respect the rights of coworkers and the public. Any employee who experiences, observes, or
            becomes aware of hostile, harassing, discriminatory, or retaliatory conduct based on any
            characteristic protected by federal, state, or local law must promptly report the matter, orally or in
            writing, to a supervisor, the City Manager, the Mayor, a council member, or a designated human
            resources representative. Reports may involve conduct by City employees, elected officials, or
            third parties such as vendors, contractors, consultants, or members of the public.

            Prompt reporting is required so that rapid and constructive action can be taken before
            circumstances worsen or working relationships are irreparably harmed. While no fixed reporting
            deadline is imposed, early reporting and intervention are strongly encouraged and are the most
            effective means of resolving concerns.




                                                              l0
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




             Upon receipt of a complaint of retaliation, the City will undertake a prompt and impartial
             investigation. The investigation may include interviews with the parties involved and with
             individuals who may have observed the conduct or possess relevant knowledge, as well as review
             of documents and other evidence. The City will make reasonable efforts to maintain confidentiality
             to the extent possible. Greater confidentiality measures may be used when necessary to protect
             witnesses, preserve evidence, prevent fabrication of testimony, or avoid concealment of
             wrongdoing.

             Employees who fail to cooperate in an investigation, who knowingly provide false information, or
             who improperly disclose confidential investigation information in a manner that compromises the
             integrity of the investigation may be subject to discipline, up to and including termination.

             If an investigation establishes that a violation of this policy has occurred, the City will take
             appropriate remedial and disciplinary action, which may include training, counseling, written
             warning, reprimand, probation, reassignment, suspension, censure, demotion, or termination, as
             permitted by law and City policy. False and malicious complaints made in bad faith may also result
             in disciplinary action; however, complaints made in good faith will not result in discipline even if
             they are not substantiated.

            Employees are encouraged, when safe and reasonable, to inform an offending individual that the
            retaliatory conduct is unwelcome and must stop. However, an individual is not required to confront
            the alleged offender before making a report. This reporting process is intendedio supplement-
            not replace or limit-any rights or remedies available under state or federal law.

            The City will strive to ensure that retaliation complaints are handled as confidentially as
            practicable, investigations are conducted by qualified and impartial personnel, uppropiiut.
            corrective options are considered, responsive action is taken, and matters are concluded in a timely
            manner.



            ARTICLE VII _ SUBSTANCE ABUSE

                    Section I - Drug Free Workplace: The City prohibits drug and alcohol use or impairment
            in the workplace to protect the public and the City's employees. The Council may, in its discretion,
            test current employees and prospective employees for the presence of drugs or alcohol as a
            condition of hire or continued employment if it has a reasonable basis to require such testing. All
            testing shall conform to the requirements of Utah Code Ann. Section 34-38-l et seq. Any
                                                                                                      "-ploy""
            or prospective employee failing or refusing to take the test will not be eligible foiempioymint,
                                                                                                              or
            if employed, may be subject to termination. The City will consider all ionfi.med positive drug
            and alcohol test results with a medically sufficient explanation to be the equivalent of a negativi
            drug test result.




                                                             ll
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                     Section2-ettyAction: Upon receipt of a verified or confirmed positive drug or alcohol
             test result, which indicates a violation of this policy, or upon the refusal of any employee or
             prospective employee to provide a sample, the Council may use that test result or refusal as the
             basis for all disciplinary or rehabilitative actions authorized herein, depending upon the
             circumstances.

                      Section 3 - Confidentialitv: All information, interviews, reports, statements, memoranda,
             or test results received by the City, through this drug and alcohol testing program, are confidential
             communications and are not to be used or received as evidence, obtained in discovery or disclosed
             in any public or private proceeding, except to those having a demonstrated need to know, or in a
             proceeding related to an action taken by the City, or in defense of any action brought against the
             City, or as required by law. All testing results will be the property of the City, but test results may
             be released to the person who has been tested upon written request.

                     Section 4 - Acknowledgment: The City will require each employee to read this policy and
             sign a form stating that they have received and read a copy of this policy and agree to abide by its
             terms as a condition of continued employment. The signed acknowledgment will be kept in each
             employee's personnel fi le.

             ARTICLE VIII _ WORKERS COMPENSATION INSURANCE

                    Section I - General: Work-related accidents are covered by the workers compensation
            insurance. Premiums for this coverage are paid by the City. Employees are to report any work-
            related accidents to the Council, or applicable supervisor designated by the Council, as soon as
            possible and submit a written initial injury report to the Council or supervisor as soon as possible.

                    Section 2 - Payments: If a claim is approved by the Utah Labor Commission, the
            employee's medical costs and compensation will be paid by the worker's compensation insurance
            in accordance with the State policy. Because the City pays the total cost of worker's compensation
            insurance, an employee cannot draw sick leave pay while eligible for worker's compensation
            insurance payments.

                    Section 3 - Accountine for Sick and Annual Leave: The period oftime an injured employee
            is off work and is waiting to qualifu for worker's compensation insurance payments, will be
            charged to sick leave or vacation leave as selected by the employee. However, during the period
            an employee is eligible and receiving compensation from worker's compensation iniurante, no
            sick leave or annual leave will be paid by the City.

            ARTICLE IX _ JOB CLASSIFICATIONS AND COMPENSATION

                     Section 1 - Compensation: The Council will conduct periodic market surveys to determine
            the salary range for particular job classifications and the salary, within the approved range, for
            particular employees based on their experience, qualifications, education, and other qual-ifting
            factors the Council deems relevant.




                                                              t2
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                     Section 2 -             Reviews: The Council will designate a Council Member or a
             supervisor to conduct periodic performance reviews to insure quality performance, provide
             feedback concerning employee performance, set work performance, and determine eligibility for
             merit raises. The Council may, in its discretion, require performance reviews more than once
             annually.

                  Section 3 - Merit Increases: The Council may, in its discretion, award merit increases in
             an employee's compensation based on increased proficiency, qualifications, changes in an
             employee's position or job description, or other circumstances that it deems to warrant an increase.
             Merit increases are not automatic but are subject to the results of an evaluation of the employee's
             performance and the availability of sufficient budgeted funds.

                      Section 4 - Cost of Livinq Increases: The Council may, in its discretion, award cost-of-
             living increases to its employees, provided that all employees must receive the same cost of living
             increase and any such increases must be computed by the consumer price index published by the
             United States Bureau of Labor Statistics.

                    Section 5 - Pay Periods: Unless an exception is granted by the Department of Labor, as
             required by the FLSA, wages are to be calculated on a weekly basis and are to be paid at least
             twice monthly.

                    Section 6 - Overtime: Any non-salaried employee who is required to work more than 40
            hours during any work week will be paid for all hours in excess of 40 at the rate of one and one-
            halftimes the regular rate at which the employee is employed or, at the Council's election, will
            receive compensatory time off at the rate of one and one-half hours for each hour of employment
            for which overtime compensation would otherwise be required by the FLSA or any other
            applicable law.

                   Section 7 - Health Insurance and Retirement: The Council may elect, in its discretion, to
            provide health insurance and retirement benefits to its employees.

                   Section 8 - Payroll Deductiors fo. Political Pr.poses Prohibited: The City will not deduct
            from the wages of its employees any amounts paid to:

                     l. A candidate as defined in Utah Code Ann. $ 204-11-l0l;
                     2. A personal campaign committee as defined in Utah Code Ann. $ 20A-l l-l0l;
                     3. A political action committee as defined in Utah Code Ann. $ 204-11-l0l;
                     4. A political issues committee as defined in Utah Code Ann. $ 20A-l l-l0l;
                     5. A registered political party as defined in utah code Ann. $ 20A-l l-101;
                     6. A political fund as defined in Utah Code Ann. $ 20A-l l-1402; or



                                                             l3
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                     7. Any entity established by a labor organization to solicit, collect, or distribute money
                          primarily for political purposes as defined in Chapter 32 of Title 34 of the Utah Code.

            ARTICLE X * LEAVE

                    Section I - Annual Leave: The following schedule will be used to earn vacation leave for
            full-time employees:

                                        Length of Service Hours Earned

                                         0-4yrs                3.0 hours per pay period
                                         4plus-9yrs            5.0 hours per pay period
                                         9 plus - 14 yrs       7.0 hours per pay period
                                         14 plus yrs           9.0 hours per pay period

                                         Part-time will receive 50% of these amounts

                   Section 2 * Use of Annual Leave: An employee may use any or all accrued annual leave
            at any time subject to the approval of the Mayor or their supervisor, whichever is applicable.
            Vacations will be scheduled well in advance so as to meet the operating requirements of the City,
            and in so far as possible, the preference of the employees. It will be the responsibility of the
            Council, or a designated employee, to maintain records of vacation leave used by each employee.
            Such records will be turned into the Council at the end of each quarter, or immediately upon the
            employee's separation, to be placed in the employee's official personnel records.

                     Section 3 - Sick Leave: Sick leave will be accrued at the rate of 4.0 hours per pay period
            for all full-time employees and 2.0 hours for part-time employees. Sick leave may be used as it is
            accrued. Sick leave is to be used in case of personal illness or injury to the employee or immediate
            family with the exception that three of the 12 days accrued annually may be used for personal
            business during the year of accrual. Personal leave must be noted on the employee's time record
            as personal leave. Personal leave must be approved in advance and may be taken in increments of
            one hour. If personal business days are not used in the year accmed, they automatically revert to
            normal sick leave effective January l. An employee's supervisor is authorized to send an employee
            home and require the employee to use sick leave when the employee comes to work sick and is
            unable to perform his job in a safe, productive and effective manner because of sickness.

                    Section 4 - Familv and Medical Leave Employees who have worked forthe City for 1,250
            hours during the previous 12 consecutive months and have been employed for at least I year are
            eligible for up to 12 work weeks of unpaid Family and Medical Leave during any 12 month period
            as determined by the City. The Mayor or designee, may approve, based on individual
            circumstances, leave for employees who do not meet the "hours" or "months" eligibility
            requirement. Eligible employees are entitled to Family and Medical Leave in the following
            situations:

                     l. The employee has a serious health condition that makes the employee unable to
                perform the employee's job.



                                                               t4
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                     2. The birth of an employee's child, or placement of a child for adoption or foster care.
                    3. Caring for the employee's spouse, son or daughter, or parent, who has a serious health
                 condition.

             Eligible employees are entitled to take 12 work weeks of unpaid Family and Medical Leave for
             these reasons in any 12 month period, which 12 month period will be determined by the City.
             These benefits are renewable each year, but cannot be accumulated from year to year.

            Before Family and Medical Leave is granted to an employee, the City will require medical
            certification to support a request for leave because of serious health condition, and may require
            second and third opinions (at the employer's expense). A fitness for duty report to retum to work
            will be required of all employees retuming from Family and Medical Leave. The employee
            ordinarily must provide thirty (30) days advance notice when the leave is "foreseeable."

            The maximum 12 work weeks of Family and Medical Leave may be taken continuously or
            intermittently, if granted by the Mayor. The City requires that any available paid leave (sick leave,
            comp time, vacation, personal leave or other paid leave) be used by the employee as part of the l2
            work weeks as provided in the "Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993."

            Employees taking Family and Medical Leave will receive health benefits under the same terms
            and conditions as when they were on the job. Other benefit premiums, such as life insurance, long
            term disability insurance and short term disability insurance must be paid by the employee.

            Employees are guaranteed the right to return from Family and Medical Leave to their previous or
            an equivalent position with no loss of benefits at the end of the leave. If there are layoffs or
            reductions in force while the employee is on Family and Medical Leave, and they would have lost
            their job had they remained, the employee loses their rights to reinstatement.

                    Section 5 - Leave of Absence: Leave of absence without pay or benefits up to 120 days
            may be granted by the Council. Leave of absence will not be regarded as an acquired right by an
            employee. Requests for a leave of absence will be made in writing and addressed to the Council.
            After the Council has made a decision, it will respond to the employee in writing stating the reasons
            for said decision. Benefits will not accnre while on leave of absence.

                    Section 6 - Paid Holidays: The following days have been designated by the City as paid
            holidays:

                     1.   New Year's Day
                     2.   Martin Luther King Day
                     J.   Presidents'Day
                     4.   Memorial Day
                     5.   Fourth of July (Independence Day)
                     6.   Pioneer Day
                     7.   Labor Day
                     8.   Veterans'Day



                                                              l5
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                     9. Thanksgiving Day
                     10. Christmas Day

                  Section 7 - Bereavement Leave. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Section 10-3-1103
            employees may take up to 3 work days of paid bereavement leave

            ARTICLE XI _ ETHICS

                     Section 1 - Application of the Utah Public Officers' and Employee's Ethics Act: The
            requirements of the Ethics Act are applicable to City employees and Council Members. The
            definitions included in the Act are incorporated by reference.

                    Section 2 - Gratuities: Acceptance of gratuities, whether in the form of a gift,
            compensation or a loan, may cloud the ethical judgment of an employee or Council member and
            violate the Ethics Act. District employees and Council members will not seek or accept gratuities
            except under circumstances allowed by the Ethics Act such as proper political campaign
            contributions, bona fide loans made in the ordinary course of business, public awards or an
            occasional non-pecuniary gift having a value of $50.00 or less.

                    Section 3 -          of Interest: No employee or Council member of the City may invest
            in any business entity which will create a substantial conflict between the private interests and
            public duties of the employee, contractor, or Council member.

                    Section 4 - Penalties: Any employee or Council member of the City who knowingly or
            intentionally violates the Ethics Act may be dismissed from employment or removed from office
            and may also face criminal penalties as provided in Utah Code Ann. 5 67-16-12. In addition, the
            City may rescind or void a contract entered into in violation of the Act, including contracts and
            subcontracts with independent contractors without returning any part of the consideration the City
            has received, as provided in Utah Code Ann.$ 67-16-14.

            ARTICLE XII _ GLOBAL GOVERNANCE.MANAGEMENT CONNECTION AND
            UNITY OF CONTROL

            Decisions or instructions of individual Council members, officers or committees are not binding
            on the City staff except when the Council has specifically authorized such exercise of authority by
            individuals or committees.

            ARTICLE XIII - COUNCIL OVERSIGHT

            The Council manages the operation of the City. All authority over and accountability of employees
            and contractors are considered to be the responsibility of the Council.

           ARTICLE XIV _ TREATMENT OF CONSTITUENTS/OTHERS

                  Section I - General: With respect to interactions with constituents, members of the public,
           and others, Council members, employees, and contractors will not cause or allow conditions,



                                                             l6
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




             procedures, actions or decisions which are unlawful, unethical, unsafe, disrespectful, disruptive,
             undignified, imprudent, or in violation of Council policy. Accordingly, Council members,
             employees, and contractors will not:

                      1. Fail to develop and maintain positive relationships with constituents, public agencies
                  and officials, contractors, service providers, insurers, consultants and others to effect the
                  exchange of information, resources, programs and ideas to ensure the best interests of the
                  public.

                       2. Fail to recommend policies and procedures to the Council that ensure compliance with
                  all federal and state regulations and local laws.

                      3. Fail to provide for effective handling of complaints; including but not limited to
                 prohibiting or making it difficult for a constituent to present a complaint to the Council if
                 resolution has not been reached at the employee level.

                      4. Fail to disclose the opportunity to leverage relationships with other entities that share
                 interests with the City.

                      5. Use methods of collecting, reviewing, transmitting or storing information that fail to
                 protect confi dential information.

                     Section 2 - Financial Management: With respect to the actual, ongoing condition of the
             City's financial health, Council members and employees will not cause or allow a material
             deviation from the policies adopted by the Council, cause or allow any fiscal condition that is
             inconsistent with achieving the Council's directives, fail to exercise due and prudent care, or place
             the long term financial health of the organization in jeopardy. Accordingly, Council members and
             employees may not:

                     1. Expend more funds than are conservatively projected to be received in the fiscal year,
                 unless revenues are made available from unrestricted net assets, or other reserves in excess of
                 minimum fund balances, as approved by the Council.

                     2. Indebt the City or create obligations beyond the City's anticipated revenues.
                     3. Fail to meet obligations in a timely manner.
                     4. Fail to continually review expenditures and effectiveness of budgetary controls of the
                 City and present to the Council quarterly financial reports.

                    5. Allow reports or filings required by any local, state or federal agency to be overdue or
                inaccurately filed.

                     6. Expend any funds without disclosing to the Council any conflict of interest or fail to
                annually provide a conflict of interest report to the Council.




                                                              17
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                     7. Fail to aggressively pursue receivables after a reasonable grace period.
                   8. Fail to keep complete and accurate financial records on a modified accrual basis by
                fund type and accounts in accordance with GAAP.

                     9. Receive, process or disburse funds under controls that are inconsistent with GAAP
                     10. Violate the City's purchasing policy. Splitting orders to avoid this limit is not
                acceptable.

                   1 1. Change fee structures without properly executed public notice, public hearings and

                Council approval.

                     12. Use any long term reserves without the express consent of the Council.

                    13. Develop or administer any program that leverages the benefit of any individual Council
                or employee.

                     14. Fail to make an annual presentation to the Council of the City's goals, budget and
                activities.

                     Section 3 - Asset Protection: The Council, employees and contractors will not allow City
            assets to be unprotected, inadequately maintained, inappropriately used or unnecessarily risked.
            Accordingly, City Council, employees, and contractors (when applicable) will not:

                     l. Fail to insure adequately against theft and casualty and maintain adequate liability
                protection for Council members, employees, and the City itself.

                    2. Unnecessarily expose the City, the Council, employees, or contractors to claims of
                liability.

                    3. Fail to obtain insurance coverage against theft and property losses to 100 percent of
                replacement value.

                     4. Allow personnel access to material amounts of funds or fail to manage each major fund
                of the City, and closely supervise those having the care, management, collection, or distribution
                of public monies belonging to the City.

                    5. Subject facilities and equipment to improper wear and tear or insufficient maintenance
                    6. For Council members and employees, make any purchases without strict compliance
                with the City's purchasing policies and procedures.

                   7. Receive, process or disburse funds under controls which are insufficient to meet the
                compliance standards of the City's Independent Auditor.




                                                             l8
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                     8. Invest or hold funds in instruments that are non-compliant with the State Money
                Management Act.

                     9. Fail to protect public records, City information and files from loss or significant
                damage.

                   10. Acquire, encumber or dispose of real property without a recommendation from the
                Council.

                     11. Fail to maintain a minimum general fund balanc e of 50o/o of the current year' s property
                tax collections, unless authorized by the Council; nor allow the general fund balance to exceed
                100% of the current year's property tax collections.

                    12. Fail to manage City assets in compliance with GASB Statement No. 34, and the asset
                capitalization policy adopted by the Council.

                     13.Endanger the organization's public image or credibility, particularly in ways that would
                hinder its purpose, mission and values.

                    Section 4 - Communication and Support to the Council: City staff will give the Council as
            much information as necessary to allow the Council to be adequately informed and supported in
            their work. Accordingly, City staff and contractors will:

                     l. Submit monitoring data required by the Council             in a timely, accurate and
                understandable fashion, directly addressing provisions of the Council policies being monitored
                and including the staffs' or contractors' interpretations.

                     2. Advise the Council in a timely manner of trends, facts and information relevant to the
                Council's work.

                   3. Advise the Council of significant transfers of money within funds or other changes
                substantially affecting the organization's financial condition.

                    4. Advise the Council of changes in assumptions upon which Council policy has been
                established.

                     5. Provide for the Council as many staff and external points of view and opinions as
                needed for fully informed Council decisions.

                    6. Advise the Council il the Council or individual members are not in compliance with
                the Council's policies, particularly in the case of Council or Council member behavior that is
                detrimental to the work relationship between the Council and the Mayor.

                    7. Provide a mechanism for official Council, officer or committee communication.
                    8. Work with the Council as a whole except when:


                                                             l9
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                         a. Fulhlling reasonable individual requests for information.
                         b. Working with officers or committees duly charged by the Council.
                         c   Communicating with the Mayor.

                     9. Report in a timely manner any actual or anticipated noncompliance with any Council
                or other policy.

                   10. Supply sufficient information about items on the agenda to enable Mayors of the
                Council to make informed decisions.

                    11. Provide to Council members a draft copy of Council meeting minutes within twenty
                (20) working days after each meeting.

                    12. Provide electronic notice to Council members, including a proposed agenda and related
                information at least five days prior to a scheduled Council meeting.

                    13. Supply for the consent agenda all items delegated to the Mayor, yet required by law or
                contract to be Council-approved, along with monitoring assurance.

            ARTICLE XV _ ACCEPTABLE USE POLICY

                    Section I - General: This acceptable use policy constitutes a "written policy of the public
            servant's entity" for the purposes of Utah Code Ann. 5 76-8-402(l)(aXiii).

                   Section 2 - Authorization: Ci ty public servants are authorizedto use public property for
            personal use as provided in this Article

                   Section 3 - Guidelines: City public servants are encouraged to use City public property of
            in a manner that complies with the following:

                     l. The use does not damage the public property;
                    2. The use does not cost the City more than $2,500.00;
                    3. The use does not interfere with use of the public property as intended for the public
                use; and

                    4. The use allows public servants who have been authorized, formally or informally, to
                use SCSA# equipment for personal use to do so in accordance with state laws.

                    Section 4 Warnines: If the Council, a Council member, or a City supervisor believes that
                                -
            a public servant is using public property in a manner contrary to the guidelines set forth in Article
            XV, Section 3, the Council, Council members, or supervisor will give the public servant a written



                                                             20
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




            statement that describes the public servant's improper use of SCSA# public property and informs
            the public servant that he or she should immediately stop using the public property in a manner
            that is contrary to the guidelines.

                     Section 5 - Repeat Violations: A public servant will violate this Article if he or she

                    1. Receives a warning under Section 4 of this Article that is not appealed or is upheld by
                the Council; and

                   2. Uses public property in the same or in a substantially similar manner as set forth in the
                previously issued warning within ayear of that warning.

                    Section 6 - Demand for Payment: If a public servant violates this Article, the City will
            demand in writing that the applicable public servant repay the full cost of his or use personal use
            of public property. Any written demand that the City issues under this Section must include the
            total amount owing, an explanation of how the City calculated the amount owing, and a deadline
            for the public servant to repay the amount owing. The public servant's use of the public property
            will be deemed to be unauthorized if the public servant does not repay the amount owing within
            the time allotted in the written demand. Provided, however, that a public servant may respond to a
            written demand by requesting a re-payment schedule, which request the Council, in its sole
            discretion may approve or deny. If the Council establishes a re-payment schedule, failure of the
            public servant to comply with that re-payment schedule will constitute the unauthorized use of
            City's public property.

                      Section 7 - Appeals: A public servant may appeal a warning or demand for payment issued
            under this Article to the Council if the public servant believes the waming or demand for payment
            is in error or is otherwise improper under this Article or applicable law. The public servant must
            file a written appeal with the Council within 10 days of the public servant's receipt of the warning
            or demand for payment. The Council will hear the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting
            or, in its discretion, hold a special meeting to hear the appeal. When hearing an appeal filed under
            this Section, the Council will review the warning or demand for payment de novo along with any
            information or evidence provided by the public servant. The public servant will bear the burden of
            proof of showing by a preponderance of the evidence that the warning or demand for payment is
            in error. The Council will issue a written decision explaining the reasoning for its decision and
            will provide the public servant with a copy of its decision, provided that any decision issued under
            this Section must include the following disclaimer: "This decision pertains to an internal City
            employment matter and does not constitute evidence of any criminal wrongdoing."

                    Section 8 - Disciplinary Action:

                     l. A public servant who violates this Article will be subject to all applicable disciplinary
                actions set forth in this Policy and may be subject to civil and criminal penalties under Utah
                and federal law, depending on the circumstances, provided:




                                                              2t
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                         a. If an independent contractor violates this Article, such violation will constitute
                      grounds for the City to rescind or void a contract entered into with that independent
                      contractor;

                        b. A Council member who violates this Article may be subject to civil and criminal
                      penalties, including but not limited to disqualification from office pursuant to Utah Code
                      Ann. $ 76-8-404;and

                        c. The Council may, in its discretion, refer violations under this Article to the
                      appropriate law enforcement authorities if the Council has reason to believe that a public
                      servant has committed a crime.

           ARTICLE XVI - HIGHER LAW TO CONTROL AND SEVERABILITY

                   In the event of any conflict between this Policy and any applicable federal or state law, rule
           or regulation, the law, rule or regulation, including amendments and modifications thereto, shall
           control to the extent of such inconsistency. The provisions of this Policy are further declared to be
           severable, and if any provision of this Policy shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or
           unconstitutional or if the application of this Policy to any person or circumstance is held to be
           invalid or unconstitutional, such holding shall not affect the validity of the remaining provisions
           of the ordinance codif,red in this Policy.




                                                             22
Docusign Envelope ID: DF306875-496C-4A06-9310-4647783156B4




                                       At-Will Employment Acknowledgement and Waiver


           Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. $ 10-3-1105(2)(e), I acknowledge that my employment with Keams
           City ('City") is at will. I understand and agree that my employment is not for any definite term
           and may be terminated by the City or by me at any time, with or without cause, and with or without
           notice, subject only to applicable law. I acknowledge that no oral or written statement, policy,
           handbook, or representation by any supervisor, manager, or elected official alters my at-will
           employment status unless expressly approved by the City Council in a written contract signed by
           authorized representatives.

           I acknowledge that I have been informed that certain employees of a municipality may be entitled
           to pre-disciplinary or pre-termination procedures under Utah Code Annotated $ 10-3-1106,
           including notice and an opportunity to respond prior to suspension or termination. I funher
           acknowledge that under Utah Code Ann. $ 10-3-1105(2)(e), an employee may voluntarily waive
           those statutory procedures.

           By signing this acknowledgment,I knowingty, voluntarily, and expressly waive any right I may
           have to the disciplinary, pre-termination, pre-suspension, or other rights or procedures described
           in Utah Code Ann. $ 10-3-1106, to the fullest extent permitted by $ 10-3-1105(2Xe). I understand
           that as a result of this waiver, the City may discipline, suspend, or terminate my employment
           without providing those statutory procedures, and that my status will remain strictly at will.

           I confirm that this waiver is voluntary, is not a condition of any existing contractual employment
           right, and is executed without coercion or improper pressure. I have been given the opportunity to
           ask questions and to seek independent advice and legal counsel before signing. I understand that
           this waiver does not limit any rights that cannot be waived under federal or state law, including
           claims for unlawful discrimination, retaliation, or other protected rights.

           Employee Name:

           Employee Signature:                                     Date:

           Position/Department:

           City       Representative:                                          Date:
           Title:




                                                             23
