ORDINANCE No. 29-062-0)\ Feoruaty 24+ 20200
AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL REMOVING
ALTERNATE MEMBERS FROM THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING
COMMISSION AND MAKING CONFORMING CHANGES AND OTHER EDITS TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION’S RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE

RECITALS
WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission currently consists of five
members and up to two alternates appointed and approved by the metro township council per

Section 19.05.010 of the Kearns Metro Township Code; and
WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township Council (“Council”) desires to amend Section

| 19.05.010 to specify that the Planning Commission shall consist of five regular members with no
alternates to account for how the Planning Commission currently operates; and
WHEREAS, the Council desires to revise an update the Planning’ Commission’s rules of
order and procedure pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-301 to: (1) account for the removal of
the alternate members; (2) to remove limits on the consecutive term limits for planning
commission members; and (3) to make additional changes to conform to the Planning
Commission’s current practices; and
WHEREAS, the Council desires to adopt an updated opening statement for the Planning
Commission Chair to read during Planning Commission meetings and public hearings to ensure
compliance with the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act and to otherwise ensure that the
understands the Planning Commission’s role and authorities.
NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Kearns Metro Township
Council that:
SECTION 1: Chapter 19.05.005 is amended to read as follows:
19.05.010 Appointment—Term
The planning commission for the Metro Township shall consist of five members appointed and
approved by the metro township council. Members shall be appointed to serve three-year terms.
In the event a term of a member shall expire before a successor is appointed, the member may
continue to serve until a successor is appointed. Terms of at least one member, and not more than
three shall expire each year. The members of the planning commission shall be registered voters
residing in the Metro Township.
SECTION 2: The Kearns Planning Commission’s Rules of Order and Procedure are
revised as set forth in Exhibit A.
SECTION 3: The Planning Commission Chair shall read the opening statement attached
in Exhibit B before the business item portion of each Planning Commission meeting and, where
applicable, at the opening of any public hearing items on the agenda.

SECTION 4: This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its publication pursuant
to Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-711(1) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.
APPROVED and ADOPTED this 24th day of February, 2020.
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By: Ruphs
Kel sh, Mayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder Metro Township Attorney
VOTING
Council Member Bush voting Vert
Council Member Butterfield voting You
. . \
Council Member Peterson voting {Ga
Council Member Schaeffer voting Yeu.
Council Member Snow voting Yon.
(Complete as Applicable)
Summary of ordinance published in newspaper:
Date of publication: 7
Effective date of ordinance:

SUMMARY OF
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. 20 — 02-0\

On the 24th day of = 2020, the Kearns Metro Township Council adopted
Ordinance No. 20-61-0 __, an ordinance of the Kearns Metro Township Council
removing alternate members from the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission and making

| conforming changes and other edits to the Planning Commission’s Rules of Order and Procedure.
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By:
Selly Bugh, Mayor

ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:

Sherrie Swensen, Clerk Metro ownship Attorney

VOTING

Council Member Bush voting Ya

Council Member Butterfield voting Ya

Council Member Peterson voting Yow

Council Member Schaeffer voting Yon

Council Member Snow voting Yan

A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2D-02-0\ _is available in the office of the Kearns

Metro Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.

EXHIBIT A

Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission
RULES OF ORDER AND PROCEDURE
Adopted May 9, 2017 and Revised February 24, 2020
These Rules and Procedures (“Rules of Procedures”) shall govern the proceedings of the Kearns
Metro Township Planning Commission (herein referred to as “the Commission”) and shall be
consistent with applicable provisions of the Utah Code and Kearns Metro Township Code of
Ordinances.
| I. Authority and Duties

The Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission shall act on all planning matters that arise
within the Township’s jurisdiction as required or permitted by the Kearns Metro Township Code
of Ordinances.

Il. Membership
Section 1. Appointment of Members—Any resident of Kearns Metro Township interested in the
authority and duties of the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission may be appointed a
member as outlined in Kearns Metro Township ordinance and in line with the approved policies
and procedures of the Kearns Metro Township Council. Any resident residing within the
township interested in the authority and duties of the Township Planning Commission may be
appointed a Member of the Kearns Metro Township Planning Commission as outlined in Kearns
Metro Township ordinance and in line with the approved policies and procedures of the Kearns
Metro Township Council. All members including those seeking reappointment must follow the
application and appointment policies set forth by the Kearns Metro Township Council.
Membership shall be available without regard to race, color, creed, sex, religion, age, disability,
sexual orientation, marital status, or national origin.

A. Membership — The Commission shall be composed of five Members appointed by the
Kearns Metro Township Council.
Section 2. Rights of Members—AIl Members, including the Chair, shal! be entitled to one vote
on all matters properly brought before the Commission for action. Proxy votes shall not be
permitted and Members must be present to vote unless otherwise allowed by a duly adopted
policy on electronic meetings.
Section 3. Supporting Agency—The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Service District or any
applicable service provider shall be the supporting agency of the Kearns Metro Township
Planning Commission (“Supporting Agency”) and shall digitally record al! meetings, make
recordings available to the public within three (3) business days, take written minutes, and post
all agendas and meeting activities to the Utah Public Notice website twenty-four (24) hours
prior to each meeting.

1. Creation of Agenda—The Supporting Agency staff, with consultation from the

Chair, shall create the agenda for each regular meeting and shall send an agenda

to the Commission. Additional items may be placed on the business meeting
section of the agenda at the business meeting by the Commission or Supporting
Agency staff.
2. Other County and State agencies are encouraged to attend meetings and build
partnerships with the commission. These agencies include but are not limited to:
a. Kearns Community Council
b. UTA
c. SLCo Public Works Engineering
d. SLCo Parks and Recreation
e. SLCo Public Works Operations
f. SLCo Transportation
g. SLCo District Attorney
h. Unified Police
i. Unified Fire
j. Salt Lake County Health Department
k. All Metro Township Community Councils
1. SLC Public Utilities
m. U.S. Forest Service
n. U.S. Army Corp of Engineers
o. Utah State Department of Natural Resources Division of Water Rights
p. Metro Township Council Members
q. Other Staff Members
r. Other Metro Township Planning Commission Members
Section 4. Commission Member Terms—Members shall be appointed for a term of three (3)
consecutive years. All appointments shall be made with consideration for staggered terms.
Section 5. Training—As soon as possible after being appointed, all Members should meet with
the Supporting Agency staff to review these Rules of Procedure, the General Plan, and all! other
applicable Kearns Ordinances and Policies. Failure to comply with this provision may result in
removal of the Member from the Commission. All Members will attend additional trainings
scheduled from time to time by the Agency. Attendance at required meetings will be recorded.
Section 6. Attendance—Members shall regularly attend meeting. A Member may be removed
from the Commission if he/she has three (3) unexcused absences from Commission meetings
within a none-year time period.
Section 7. Excused and Unexcused Absences—a Member unable to attend a meeting must
contact the Supporting Agency at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the scheduled meeting and
indicate the reason for being absent. Members who give less than 24-hour notice shall be
considered unexcused, except when the Chair has approved a valid reason. Ant absences,
excused or unexcused, shall be recorded in the meeting minutes.

Section 8. Member Responsibilities—As a Member of the Commission, each member shall be
responsible to:
1. Read and study the agenda, staff reports and all attached documents prepared by
Supporting Agency staff so that they are fully informed about each application prior to
the scheduled public meeting.
2. Act in a courteous and respectful manner to their fellow Members, the Supporting
Agency staff, and the public, during all meetings.
3. Attend the meeting and arrive on time.

Section 9. Removal Proceedings—Removal from the Commission shall be in accordance with
Kearns Metro Township Ordinance by the Kearns Metro Township Council. In the event the
Commission determines, by a majority vote of all Members, that it is in the best interest of the
Commission and the Kearns Metro Township that a Member be removed, the Commission shall
make a recommendation to the Kearns Metro Township Council to initiate removal proceedings.
Section I 0. Vacancies - A Member may resign at any time by giving written notice of such
resignation to the Chair and Supporting Agency. Resignations shall be recorded in the meeting
minutes. Any vacancy during a Member's term shall be filled in the same manner as a regular
appointment and the person appointed shall serve the remainder of the unexpired term.

Section 11. Compensation and Reimbursement - Members shall receive no compensation for
their services. If authorized by the Kearns Metro Town Council, Members may be reimbursed
for any reasonable expense they may incur for activities conducted. All reimbursements shall be
processed through the Kearns Metro Town Council and must be in accordance with Utah Code
and Kearns Metro Township Ordinances.
Il. Officers
Section I. Election of Officers - As the first order of business at the first regularly scheduled
meeting of the year, the Commission shall hold elections for the positions of Chair and Vice
Chair from among the Members by a majority vote of the present Members. All election
practices shall comply with Robert's Rules of Order.
Section 2. Officer Terms - Officers shall serve a term of one (1) year and are allowed to serve up
to two (2) consecutive terms. Members shall not serve in an office beyond their Commission
appointment term.
Section 3. Officers Duties
1. The Chair Shall:
a. Serve as the Presiding Officer of the Commission
b. Implement the Rules of Procedure
c. Coordinate with the Supporting Agency staff to provide an agenda for
each public meeting, and timely reports and other relevant information to
the Commission

d. Execute all official documents and letters of the Commission
e. Identify and bring before the Commission such policy matters as are
| within the purview of the Commission
2. The Vice Chair Shall:
a. Assist the Chair in all necessary capacities
b. Assume the duties and responsibilities for the Chair in all instances
where the Chair is not available or unable to carry out the duties and
responsibilities
c. Identify and bring before the Commission such policy matters as are
within the purview of the Commission
Section 4. Chair pro tem - In the absence or incapacity of both the Chair and the Vice Chair for a
Commission meeting, the Members present at the meeting shall elect a Chair pro tem to serve as
Presiding Officer only for that meeting. Members shall not serve as Chair pro tem.
IV. Meetings of Members
Section 1. A Quorum shall consist of four (4) of the current appointed Members and shall be
necessary to conduct any business of the Commission.
Section 2. Adherence to County, State, and Federal Law - All meetings shall generally adhere
and comply with Roberts Rule of Order. All meeting shall adhere to the Utah Open and Public
Meetings Act, and the Government Records Access Management Act (GRAMA).
Section 3. Regular Meetings - Meeting locations shall be publicly noticed and held each month.
Annual notice of meeting dates shall be published at the beginning of each calendar year. In
addition, dates and times of the meeting shall be posted on the Utah Public Notice website a
minimum of twenty-four (24) hours prior to each meeting in accordance with state law.
Section 4. Special Meetings - Special meetings may be called by the Chair or Supporting Agency
staff, with the consent of the Chair, at any time, provided that a preferred seventy-two (72)
hours’ notice (minimum of twenty-four (24) hours' notice) is given to each Member before the
meeting is held and a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours' notice is posted on the Utah Public
Notice website. Such meetings may include fieldtrips.
Section 5. Meeting Cancellation - Notice of cancellation of a meeting shall be posted. Ifa
meeting is rescheduled the new meeting time, date, and location shall be posted on the Utah
Public Notice website a minimum of twenty-four (24) hours prior to the meeting in accordance
with state law.
V. Subcommittees
The Chair may create nine-month time limited subcommittees as deemed necessary. Members of
subcommittees shall be Commission Members.

VI. =Procedures
A. Business Meeting
Section 1. The Commission shall conduct a business meeting as a component of each regularly
scheduled meeting. The Supporting Agency staff, or the Commission, by a majority vote, may
adjust the scheduled time as needed. Members of the public may attend such meetings, but will
not participate unless invited to do so by the Chair.
Section 2. The first order of business shall be the review and acceptance of the agenda. The
second order of business shall be the review, correction, and approval of the minutes from the
previous meeting. Additional items may be added to the business meeting section of the agenda
by the Supporting Agency staff or the Commission, by a majority vote. The Commission may
also discuss and render decisions on noticed policy issues and administrative matters that do not
require public input. Special presentations, reports, and updates from the Supporting Agency
staff that do not require a decision may also be made. During a business meeting, there shall be
no discussion of an application, request, or approval scheduled for the regular meeting.
B. Meeting Procedures
Section 1. Order - The order of business at the regular meeting shall follow the noticed agenda.
The Chair, with the consent of the Commission, by a majority vote, or upon recommendation of
the Supporting Agency staff may consider matters out of the agenda order.
Section 2. Decisions - A matter for decision will be placed before the Commission by motion
made by any Member present at the meeting. The Chair shall not make motions before the
Commission except in the absence of a response from other Members to an invitation by the
Chair that a motion on a pending matter would be in order. Any Member may second a motion.
Section 3. A majority vote by the present Members in favor of a motion shall carry the motion.
Section 4. Following a seconded motion, the Supporting Agency staff may ask each Member to
verbally pronounce their name and vote and shall record each individual vote in the written
minutes as an “aye” or “nay”.
C. Procedures for Applications
Section 1. Procedure for Public Comment:

1. Any person or entity may appear in person or be represented by an authorized agent at

any meeting of the Commission

2. Unless altered by the Chair, the order of the procedure on an application shall be:

a. The Supporting Agency staff will introduce the application, including staffs
recommendations and a summary of pertinent written comments and reports
concerning the application
b. The applicant will be allowed up to 15 minutes to make their presentation.
c. The Community Council representative can present their comments as
applicable.
d. Where applicable, persons in favor of, or not opposed to, the application will
be invited to speak.
e. Where applicable, persons opposing the application, in whole or in part will be
invited to speak.
f. Where applicable, the applicant will be allowed 5 minutes to provide
concluding statements.
g. Surrebutals may be allowed at the discretion of the Chair.
Section 2. Conduct for Applicants and the Public
1. Speakers will be called to the podium by the Chairman.
2. Each speaker, before talking, shall give his or her name and address.
3. All comments should be directed to the Planning Commissioners, not to the Staff
or to members of the audience.
4, For items where there are several people wishing to speak, the Chair may impose
atime limit, usually 3 minutes per person, or 5 minutes for a group spokesperson. If
a time limit is imposed on any member or spokesperson of the public, then the same
time limit is imposed on other members or spokespersons of the public, respectively.
5. Unless otherwise allowed by the Chair, no questions shall be asked by the speaker or
Commission Members.
6. Only one speaker is permitted before the Commission at a time.
7. The discussion must be confined to essential points stated in the application bearing on
the desirability or undesirability of the application.
8. The Chair may cease any presentation or information that has already been presented
and acknowledge that it has been noted in the public record.
9. No personal attacks shall be indulged in by either side, and such action shall be
sufficient cause for stopping the speaker from proceeding.

10. No applause or public outbursts shall be permitted.
11. The Chair or Supporting Agency staff may request police support to remove
offending individuals who refuse to abide by these rules.
12. After the public comment portion of a meeting or hearing has concluded, the
discussion will be limited to the Planning Commission and Staff.
Section 3. Discussion and Vote - After all presentations have been made the Chair may request
or entertain a motion to close the public hearing. Members may continue to discuss the
application among themselves. Following this discussion on the application, a motion must be
made and seconded, which may include; Approval, Approval with Conditions, Denial, a
Recommendation to the Kearns Metro Township Council (as appropriate), or Continuation of the
item to a future meeting for decision.
Section 4. Decisions -A decision of the Commission on an application shall be documented in
writing by the Supporting Agency staff and shall include reasons for the decision. The written
decision shall be posted.
Section 5. Rules to be Printed on Agenda — Subsections 1 and 2 of Subsection C shall be printed
on the back of every meeting in which public comment is sought.
VII. Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
Section I. Compliance -All Members shall abide by Utah Code and, annually complete the
necessary volunteer forms, documents, and training.
Section 2. Voting Recusal: Member - See Section 2.07.20 I (Kearns Metro Township Ethics
Code, Conflict of Interest), and Chapter 2.70 of Kearns Metro Township Ordinance (Quasi-
Judicial Functions Standards of Conduct) for complete requirements. A member of the
Commission who has a restricted conflict of interest as defined by Kearns Metro Township
Ordinance shall declare the conflict of interest and recuse themselves from the meeting.
Members, who have unrestricted conflicts of interest as defined in Kearns Metro Township
Ordinance, shall declare the conflict of interest at the meeting, and may recuse themselves, but
are not required to do so.
Section 3. Ex Parte Communications - No member of the Commission shall have any ex parte
discussion regarding any administrative land use application before the Commission. Ex parte
communication means any communication with interested parties of an administrative land use
application coming before the Commission prior to the Commission reaching a final decision.
An administrative land use application means any land use application whereby statute or
ordinance the Commission is the final decision-maker.
VIiI. Amendments and Adoption
A. Adoption and Amendment Procedure

|
The Commission may recommend approval and/or amendments of these Rules of Procedure to
the Kearns Metro Township Council. All amendments must be consistent with all other Kearns
Metro Township ordinances and policies. ,
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By:
Kelly Bus ayor

KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP PLANNING COMMISSION CHAIR - OPENING STATEMENT
| Adopted February 24, 2020
To be read at the opening of the business item portion of the agenda
A copy of today's agenda and a sign-in sheet are located on a stand at the back of the room. Please note
your participation in today's meeting by signing in.
The Planning Commission is a voluntary citizen board. The Commission's function is to hear and decide
applications for conditional uses; and to make recommendations to the Metro Township Council for zoning
changes, preliminary subdivision plats, or changes to ordinances or general plans.
The agenda is divided into two main categories: Business Items and Public Hearing Items. At this
time, we will begin the Business items portion of the agenda. Members of the public may attend, but will
not participate unless invited to do so by the Chair or supporting staff. During this time the Commission
may discuss and render decisions on policy issues, administrative matters and other matters that do not
require public input, such as conditional uses and subdivision approvals. Special presentations, reports, and
updates from the supporting staff that do not require a decision at a Public Hearing may also be made. There
will be no discussion of an application, request, or approval scheduled for the Public Hearing Item portion
of the meeting.
Today's meeting is recorded, so please speak directly into the microphone, and state your name and address
prior to making your comments. Please note that comments from the audience are only appropriate when
presented at the podium.
The meeting will proceed as outlined in the Rules of Conduct printed on the back ofthe agenda.
To be read at the opening of the Public Hearing items portion of the agenda.
At this time, we will proceed with the Public Hearing portion of the Commission Agenda. As stated
earlier today, the Planning Commission is a voluntary citizen board. The Commission's function is to
hear and decide applications for conditional uses and preliminary subdivision plats; and to make
recommendations to the Metro Township Council for zoning changes or changes to ordinances or general
plans.
This portion of today’s meeting is dedicated to Public Hearing Items. These items are ones for which
public comment is taken which may be mandated by law or taken at the discretion of the Commissions so
that the Planning Commission can be made aware of all of the issues of concern with regards to a request.
Decisions may be made on any item listed on the agenda. A decision, or recommendation, will be rendered
by the Planning Commission for these items which may include Approval, Approval with Conditions,
Denial, or, Continuation of the item to a future meeting.
The Commissions decisions are based on: information from field observations; recommendations from
Planning Staff and other agencies, regarding compliance with the general plan and relevant ordinances; the
Community Council recommendation as a representation of community concerns; and information
presented at the public meeting, including a presentation by the applicant and testimony from the public.
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By:
eNy Bu yor
