KEARNS CITY COUNCIL
ORDINANCE NO. 2026-0-03 DATE: April 13, 2026
AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL AMENDING CHAPTER 2.56 OF
THE KEARNS MUNICIPAL CODE TO RE-ESTABLISH THE KEARNS COMMUNITY
COUNCIL AS AN OFFICIAL COMMITTEE OF THE CITY FOR THE PURPOSE OF
PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTING THE CITY’S PLANNED ANNUAL CIVIC
EVENTS

WHEREAS, for decades, the Kearns Community Council has served the citizens of the
City of Kearns (“City” or “Kearns”) in a variety of ways and through the dedicated services of its
citizen volunteers; and

WHEREAS, following Kearns’s incorporation as a municipality in 2017, Kearns has
provided the Kearns Community Council with funding to plan and carry out the City’s public
events pursuant to Chapter 2.56 of the Kearns Municipal Code; and

WHEREAS, changes in State law have imposed new reporting, accounting, and other
requirements on private non-profit entities that receive public funds, including the Kearns
Community Council; and

WHEREAS, after consulting with each other, Kearns and the Kearns Community Council
desire to further the work of the Kearns Community Council by re-establishing the council as an
official City committee with express authority to plan and carry out City events with the direct
support of City resources and staff; and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to establish the new committee as the “Kearns
Community Committee” (the “Committee”); and

WHEREAS, the City Council desires to appoint the six current Kearns Community
Council members to the Committee, with two Committee members who shall have initial terms
that end on December 31, 2027, and four Committee members who shall have initial terms that
end on December 31, 2029, provided that after these initial terms are completed the term of each
Committee member shall be four years; and

WHEREAS, the Council will appoint the remaining three Committee members at a later
date, with two Committee members having initial terms that shall end on December 31, 2027, and
one Committee member having an initial term that shall end on December 31, 2029; and

WHEREAS, the City Council’s intent in re-establishing the Kearns Community Council
as an official City committee is to broaden citizen input and participation in all civic events and
create more grassroots support for these activities by forming a citizen committee of volunteers
that will coordinate with City staff in carrying out civic events and soliciting the help of public
volunteers.

NOW, THEREFORE BE IT ORDAINED by the Kearns City Council that:

1. Amendment: Chapter 2.56 of the Kearns Municipal Code is repealed and replaced
in its entirety with the language set forth in Exhibit A of this Ordinance.

2. Appointment: The following individuals are appointed to the Committee with the
below terms:

a. Joel Trujillo and Sue Willis , who shall each serve two-year terms ending on
December 31, 2027.

b. Paul Larsen, Michael Coonrad, Edward Aguirre, and Bridget McQueen, who
shall each serve three-year terms ending on December 31, 2029.

3. Severability: If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this
ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this ordinance, or specific
application of this ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full
force and effect.

4, Direction to Mayor and Staff: The Mayor and staff are authorized and directed
to take such steps as may be needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law,
including but not limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (b)
to finalize and post the ordinance to MuniCode, including but not limited to making non-
substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.

5. Effective Date: This Ordinance shall become effective immediately upon its
posting.

[Execution on following page|
2

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Kearns Council on this
13" day of April 2026.
CITY OF KEARNS
BS: Jesse Valdez, Mayor =
ATTEST:
Diana Baun
City Recorder
City Council Vote as Recorded:
Mayor Valdez
Council Member Colby
Council Member Butterfield _ (J
Council Member Longtin
Council Member Schaeffer
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code §10-3-711:
Pron! |5, Z02f2
Effective date of ordinance: f pr ID we
3

SUMMARY OF
CITY OF KEARNS
ORDINANCE NO. 2026-0-03

On April 13, 2026, the Kearns Council enacted Ordinance No. 2026-O-03 to amend
Chapter 2.56 of the Kearns Municipal Code to re-establish the Kearns Community Council as an
official committee of the City for the purpose of planning and implementing the City’s planned
annual civic events.
CITY OF KEARNS
By Jesse Valdez, Mayor S
ATTES | .
Diana Baun
City Recorder
City Council Vote as Recorded:
Mayor Valdez
Council Member Colby
Council Member Butterfield
Council Member Longtin
Council Member Schaeffer
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2026-O-03 is available in the office of the Kearns City
Recorder, 860 Levoy Drive, Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah 84123.

4

EXHIBIT A

CHAPTER 2.56 OF THE KEARNS MUNICIPAL CODE
KEARNS COMMUNITY COUNCIL
Adopted April 13, 2026
2.56.010 Committee Name
A. The Kearns City Council established a citizen committee on April 13, 2026, by
Ordinance 2026-O-03 to plan and execute events for the City.
B. The name of the committee shall be the “Kearns Community Committee” and hereafter
referred as the “Committee” in this Chapter.
2.56.020 Purpose
The City Council recognizes there are many public needs related to civic events and that there is a
role for municipal government in meeting those needs. The City Council established the
Committee for the purpose of improving civic events and making recommendations to the City
Council related to these important areas of focus.
2.56.030 Membership
The Committee shall be made up of not less than nine (9) members as follows: nine citizens at
large, four of whom shall serve an initial term ending on December 31, 2027, and five of whom
shall serve initial terms ending on December 31, 2029. After the initial terms are completed, all
subsequent terms shall be four years. Each of the four Council members of the City Council shall
recommend two citizen committee member for appointment to the Committee. The Mayor shall
recommend one citizen committee member for appointment to the Committee. Prior to making
their respective nominations, the Council members and Mayor shall consult with the Committee,
which may provide the Council member and Mayor with recommended nominations to consider.
The appointments shall be made by a majority vote of the City Council.
2.56.040 Supporting Staff.
A. The Council may also assign one or more of the following to provide support to the
Committee:
1. One member of the City Council selected by the Mayor in consultation with the City
Council;
2. Kearns City Outreach Coordinator or his/her designee to serve as a liaison between the
Council and the Committee;
3. The City Recorder;
4. The City Attorney; and
6

5. Other City staff the City Council deems appropriate.

B. The role of the Kearns City Outreach Coordinator, if appointed as a liaison to the

Committee, shall be to:

1. Attend regularly scheduled Committee meetings;

2. Communicate back to the City Council regarding civic events updates; and
3. Align Committee priorities with City Council goal.

C. The Committee may call upon other City staff and the City Council for reasonable support

and resources as needed.
2.56.050 Membership Tenure
The term of appointment to the Committee is either two years, three years, or four years for initial
terms and four years for all terms after the completion of the initial term. Committee members may
be reappointed but service may not exceed eight years. The Committee member terms shall be
staggered so the rotation of the Committee members does not happen at the same time. Each of
the four Councilmembers of the City Council shall recommend two citizen committee member for
appointment to the Committee. The Mayor of the City Council shall recommend one member for
appointment to the Committee. Such appointments shall be made by a majority vote of the City
Council.
2.56.060 Attendance
Members shall regularly attend Committee meetings. A member with three unexcused committee
meeting absences within a calendar year shall have their membership reviewed and may be
recommended to the City Council for removal from the Committee by a majority vote of the full
Committee.
2.56.070 Member Responsibilities.
As a member of the Committee, each member shall be responsible to:

1. Read and study the agenda, staff reports, and any meeting materials prepared by supporting
staff or committee members, so they are fully informed about each item prior to the
scheduled Committee meeting;

2. Attend Committee meetings and arrive on time. In the event of absence or tardiness,
members should inform the Chair or supporting staff of such absence or tardiness;

3. Attend Committee events and perform Committee assignments related to events, goals and
priorities of the Committee; and

4. Act ina courteous and respectful manner to their fellow members, supporting staff, and the
public during all meetings and events.

7

2.56.080 Vacancies
A member may resign at any time by giving written notice of such resignation to the Chair, Mayor,
City Council, and supporting staff.
2.56.090 Compensation and Reimbursement
Members shall be offered a stipend for meeting attendance and reimbursement for expenses as
adopted by the City Council and at the City Council’s sole discretion.
2.56.100 Meetings.
The Committee shall meet monthly or as often as it deems necessary, but not less than quarterly.
2.56.110 Notice of Meetings.
The meeting agenda shall be set by the Committee Chair, Committee members or supporting staff
and is to be posted by the City Recorder in accordance with the Open and Public Meetings Act,
Utah Code §§ 52-4-102 et seq. Any Committee member, including non-voting members, may place
items be placed on Committee agendas for consideration by submitting written notice to the Chair
and staff liaison a minimum of two (2) weeks prior to the meeting.
2.56.120 Quorum and Voting.
Attendance by not less than five voting members of the Committee shall be considered a quorum
for the transaction of Committee business.
2.56.130 Order of Business.
Meetings shall follow the approved agenda; each meeting shall include a citizen comment period.
Attendance shall be taken at each meeting, and a list of attendees shall be included in the minutes
of the meeting. Excused and unexcused members shall also be listed.
2.56.140 Recordings of Meetings.
Written minutes and an audio recording shall be kept of the proceedings of Committee meetings
by the City Recorder or their designee. Written minutes shall be provided to the City Recorder
once approved. Minutes shall be made available to the public upon request.
2.56.150 Election of Chair and Vice-Chair.
The Committee shall annually elect a chair, vice-chair, and any additional officers as necessary at
the first regularly scheduled meeting of each year by majority vote after taking nominations from
the body.
2.56.160 Officer Terms.
The Committee officers may serve successive terms at the sole discretion of the Committee when
it votes as a quorum in its official capacity.

8

2.56.170 Duties of Chair and Vice Chair

A. The Chair shall preside at all meetings and generally perform the duties of a presiding
officer. If the Chair is absent or unable to preside, the Vice Chair shall preside for that
meeting. The order of business shall be as specified by the Chair and/or supporting staff.

B. If the Chair or Vice Chair are not present, the acting chairperson shall be nominated and
appointed by the Committee members in attendance. The temporarily appointed
chairperson shall preside for that meeting only.

2.56.180 Duties of the Committee:

A. Create and recommend to the Council an annual budget that describes in reasonable detail
the Committee’s proposed events for the upcoming fiscal year and the anticipated costs for
each event.

B. Plan, staff, and otherwise carryout events in accordance with the annual budget the City
Council has approved.

C. Create recommended long-range plans for the City’s civic events for the City Council to
review and approve.

D. Incoordination with City staff, identify funding sources for Committee activities and plans
including, but not limited to, grant funding, private funding, fundraising, philanthropic
participation in improvements, and any other sources of funding for the purposes of the
Committee’s duties and implementation of City civic events plans.

E. The Committee shall make an annual report to the City Council during the first quarter of
the calendar year. The report shall include the Committee’s goals, objectives, activities,
recommendations, and any budgetary requests for the next fiscal year.

F. Any other duties as may be assigned to it by the City Council of Kearns acting in its official
capacity as the City’s Governing Body.

2.56.190 City Council Action and Interaction with the Committee
) A. The City Council shall review all recommendations the Committee may issue, provided
that no Committee recommendation shall be binding on the City Council or the City.

B. The City Council may approve, reject, modify, or remand a recommendation to the
Committee for further action.

C. The City Council may direct the Committee to undertake assignments that are in addition
to those duties set forth in this Chapter, including requiring the Committee Chair or their
designee to provide regular updates to the City Council regarding the Committee and its
activities.

9

2.56.200 Committee Rules of Order and Procedure

A. The Committee shall create and recommend to the City Council rules of order and
procedure to govern its meetings.

B. The City Council shall consider all rules of order and procedure that the Committee
recommends, which the Council may approve, reject, amend, or return to the Committee
for further development.

2.56.210 Volunteer Status—Indemnification
Committee members shall be considered volunteers of the City and not employees, officials, or
officers of the City pursuant to the provisions of the Utah Governmental Immunity Act, Utah Code
§ 63G-7-101, et seq., in any civil action that may arise within the course and scope of the
performance of their duties under this chapter.

10
