ORDINANCE 2025-0-10
Ordinance No. 2025-O-10 Date: May 12, 2025
AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS COUNCIL UPDATING SUBSECTION
19.46.120 REGARDING THE INSTALLATION OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND
PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS, SUBJECT TO THE LIMITATIONS ON EXAC-
TIONS IN THE UTAH CODE
RECITALS

WHEREAS, the City of Kearns is a municipality and has authority to adopt land
use regulations, pursuant to Utah Code § 10-9a-501 in accordance with the Municipal Land
Use, Development, and Management Act, Title 10, Section 9a, Utah Code; and

WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to update Subsection 19.46.120 re-
garding the City’s requirements for building or land use permit applicants to provide curb,
gutter, sidewalk, street, and urban hydrology improvements along the entire property line
which abuts any public road or street in cases where it does not exist at municipal standards;
and

WHEREAS, these improvement installation requirements are subject to the limita-
tions on exactions in Utah Code; and

WHEREAS, the Kearns Planning Commission held a public hearing on May 5th
2025 to consider amending Title 19 as set forth in Exhibit A (the “Proposed Action”) in
accordance with Utah Code §§ 10-9a-205and 10-9a-502; and

WHEREAS, the Planning Commission has recommended that the Council amend
its land use ordinances set forth in Exhibit A for the protection and preservation of the
public health, safety and general welfare.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL as follows:
l. Adoption of Revisions. Section 19.46.120 Infrastructure and Public Improve-

ments, is repealed in its entirety and amended to read as set forth in Exhibit A.
7a) Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this

Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or

specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which

shall continue in full force and effect.
3. Direction to Staff. Staff are authorized and directed to take such steps as may be

needed: (a) for this ordinance to become effective under Utah law, including but not

limited to compliance with the requirements of Utah Code § 10-3-711; and (6) to

finalize and post the ordinance to Municode, including but not limited to making
non-substantive edits to correct any scrivener’s, formatting, and numbering errors.
4. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting pursuant
to Utah Code § 10-3-712.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 12" day of May 2025.
KEARNS CITY COUNCIL
Heed J»
ATTEST
” Baun, Frau
Voting:
Council Member Bush voting
Council Member Butterfield voting
Council Member Peterson voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting
Council Member Snow voting Ane
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was posted to the City of Kearns’ website, the Utah Public Notice
website, and in a public place within the City of Kearns per Utah Code §10-3-
Effective date of ordinance: Moy (4 VU ) } 5

SUMMARY OF KEARNS CITY ORDINANCE NO. 2025-0-10

On May 12, 2025, the Kearns Council enacted Ordinance No. 2024-O-10, updating Sub-
section 19.46.120 regarding the installation of infrastructure and public improvements,
subject to the limitations on exactions in the Utah Code.
hen Ast. Mayor
ATTEST

| Nan a Dam

na Baun, Recorder

Voting:
Council Member Bush voting Oe
Council Member Butterfield voting
Council Member Peterson voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting
Council Member Snow voting ade
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2025-O-10 is available in the office of the Kearns Re-
corder, 860 Levoy Dr., Suite 300, Taylorsville, Utah.

EXHIBIT A
19.46.120 Infrastructure and Public Improvements
The minimum requirements for public improvements shall be a combination of standards set
forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places and applicable standards set forth in
this Title or adopted in Kearns’ Master Transportation Plan.
A. Off-Site Improvements Required.

1. Off-Site Improvements. Subject to the essential link and rough proportionality tests for
exactions in Utah Code Section 10-9a-508, an applicant for a building or land use permit
for a dwelling, or a commercial or industrial use shall provide curb, gutter, sidewalk,
street, and urban hydrology improvements along the entire property line which abuts any
public road or street in cases where it does not exist at municipal standards.

2. Access to public right-of-ways. New and reconstructed vehicular entrances to the
property shall be provided as required in Section 14.12.110. Height, location, structural
specifications, maximum and minimum cut radii and minimum roadway approach angles
to the centerline of the street are subject to the approval of the Municipal Engineering
Division.

3. Exceptions.

a. The planning commission may grant exception to the installation of the sidewalk in
industrial areas where the planning commission determines that the sidewalk is not
necessary to serve the public need, and the elimination of the sidewalk does not
jeopardize the public health, safety or welfare.

b. The planning commission may grant exception to the installation of curb, gutter and
sidewalk in rural or estate areas where topographic or other exceptional conditions
exist, provided that the public health, safety and welfare is preserved.

c. The planning commission may require the applicant to sign a delay agreement
binding the current and future property owner to pay for their share of any required
improvements that are installed by Kearns within 10 years of the waiver.

B. Acceptance of Public Streets.

1. Street lighting shall either be chosen from the municipality’s approved streetlight list or
installed to match a theme set by developments within the zone or neighborhood.

2. Street lighting shall be installed in conformance with Title 18.

3. Street Signs and Markers. Standard street name signs shall be installed at one corner of
all street intersections. The size, design, materials, location, fabrication, installation, and
maintenance of the signs and poles within the public right of way and elsewhere shall be
in accordance with the Utah Department of Transportation, the Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices for Streets and Highways (MUTCD), or the municipality’s
adopted policies, as applicable.

C. Private Streets.

1. Private streets or roads shall be designed and constructed to meet or exceed the public
street standards set forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places, as
applicable.

a. Private streets or roads are allowed in the following circumstances:
(1) If shown on an approved development plan as private streets;
(2) For multi-family developments; or
(3) For residential subdivisions where the street is equally shared between properties.
Such streets shall have a maintenance and operations plan included in the
declaration of covenants, conditions, and restrictions for the subdivision.

D. Ingress and Egress Requirements. No building with human occupiable space may be erected
or enlarged on a parcel in any zone unless such parcel abuts upon or has access to a publicly
accepted and maintained street, a private driveway leading to an approved public street, a
private road, or a public or private alley.

E. Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility. In all zones which require a front yard, no
obstruction to view in excess of three feet (3’) in height may be placed on any corner lot
within a triangular area formed by the street property lines or right-of-way lines and a line
connecting them at points forty feet (40’) from the intersection of the street lines, except
mature trees which are located in the clear sight triangle shall be pruned to a height of at least
seven feet (7') above the established sidewalk or street elevation.

Figure 19.46.120 A: Intersecting Streets and Clear Visibility.
ty
ou RIGHT OF WAY
E ——— LIne
wi
eee EDGE OF
PAVEMENT
CLEAR SIGHT
40° “——— TRIANGLE
: '
40’ STREET
ID C) =

F. Intersecting Streets and Driveways. In all zones, no view obstruction, including a sight-
obscuring fence, wall, sign, other similar structures, and landscaping which exceeds three
feet (3’) in height shall be placed within a triangular area formed by a diagonal line
connecting lines located at the curb line or sidewalk line and driveway line ten feet (10’)
from the projected intersection of such lines.

Figure 19.46.120 B: Intersecting Streets and Driveways.
|
i !
PRIMARY =!
—— }
BUILDING i i
‘ !
i = I
Y
LINE / cilia es *" «— SIDEWALK
RIGHT-OF-WAY arr

G. Acceptance of Private Streets. Prior to acceptance by the municipality, any private street, or
any driveway allowed for access with a development that is not constructed and maintained
to the municipality’s adopted street standards shall be improved to the municipality’s adopted
street standards.

H. Driveways. A driveway shall be allowed for vehicular access according to the standards set
forth in Title 14 Highways, Sidewalks, and Public Places, and Chapter 19.48, Parking and
Mobility.

I. Pedestrian and Bicycle Mobility.

1. Each lot shall have pedestrian walkways and sidewalks that provide connections between
the building entrances, neighboring building entrances, parking areas, open space, and
public trail. Such systems shall be designed to connect with all elements within the
development, adjacent areas, and transit stops and can include sidewalks along public or
private streets, wide outside travel lanes, bike lanes on roadways, and walkways and trails
in alternative locations as appropriate. Design, location, dimensions, dedications,
easements, and reservations shall conform to applicable municipal policies and standards
for sidewalks, bicycle routes, and trails.

2. Walkways and trails shall be designed to maximize the safety of users and the security of
adjoining properties with respect to location, visibility, and landscaping.

3. Bicycle Facilities. Bicycle facilities shall be provided in accordance with the standards
set forth in Chapter 19.48, Parking and Mobility.
