KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE

orDINANCE No. _\A- ON-O% \\ RAs ,% , 2019

| AN ORDINANCE AMENDING TITLE 19 ZONING OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP CODE

OF ORDINANCES, BY ENACTING CHAPTER 19.20, ENTITLED “PUBLIC FACILITY ZONES” TO

CREATE PF AND PI ZONES FOR PUBLIC FACILITIES, INCLUDING PARKS, INSTITUTIONAL

| USES, RECREATIONAL SITES, AND CIVIC BUILDINGS.

| The Kearns Metro Township Council hereby ordains as follows:

i SECTION L The creation of public facilities zones is important to provide a zoning map of Kearns that

more clearly indicates land uses.

| SECTION I. Chapter 19.20 “Public Facility Zones” of the Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Kearns

Metro Township, Utah is hereby enacted as follows:

| Chapter 19.20 PUBLIC FACILITY ZONES

| 19.20.010: PURPOSE:

| Public facility zones are established to provide public or quasi-public uses.

A. The purpose of the PF zone is to provide areas for facilities owned by public and quasi-public

entities and which utilize relatively large areas of land. This zone is intended to provide

| immediate recognition of such areas on the official zoning map.

| B. The purpose of the PI zone is to provide areas for educational institutions, municipal uses,

| and athletic facilities, whether publicly or privately owned, that host organized team sports.
These uses would utilize relatively large areas of land and would be established for the health
and betterment of the community at large. This zone is intended to provide immediate
recognition of such areas on the official zoning map.

19.20.020: SCOPE:

The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any real property located in a public facility zone as shown

on the official zoning map. No building, structure or real property shall be used, and no building or

structure shall be hereafter erected, structurally or substantially altered, or enlarged except as set forth in
this chapter. Such requirements shall not be construed to prohibit or limit other applicable provisions of
this title, this code, or other laws.

19.20.030: USES ALLOWED:

A. Permitted And Conditional Uses: Permitted and conditional uses allowed within public facility zones
shall be as set forth in in section 19.20.070, table 19.20.1 of this chapter. Permitted and conditional
uses are indicated by a “P" or “C", respectively, in the appropriate column. Uses not permitted are
indicated by "NP". Any permitted or conditional use not shown in section 19,20.070, table 19.20.1 of

]

| this chapter shall be prohibited unless the zoning administrator determines the use is substantially the
same as a permitted or conditional use.
B. Accessory Uses: The permitted and conditional uses set forth in section 19.20.070, table 19.20.1 of
this chapter shall be deemed to include accessory uses and activities that are necessarily and
customarily associated with and incidental and subordinate to such uses.
| 1. Accessory uses shall be subject to the same regulations that apply to permitted and conditional
| uses in the same zone, except as otherwise expressly provided in this title.
2. No accessory use, building, or structure shall be allowed on a lot or parcel unless a permitted or
| conditional use has been established.
| D.
1. Accessory uses in public facility zones shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
| a. Cafeterias, dining halls and similar food service facilities when located within the main use
and operated primarily for the convenience of employees, residents, clients, patients, or
visitors to the main use.
b. Garages and off street parking areas, subject to applicable standards of chapter 19.80, "Off-
Street Parking Requirements.”
c. Gift shops, newsstands, and similar commercial activities operated primarily for the
convenience of employees, residents, clients, patients, or visitors to the main use.
d. Recreational areas and facilities.
e. Refreshment stands and food and beverage sales located in uses involving public assembly.
f. Solar energy systems.
g. Swimming pools and hot tubs.
h. Temporary uses, subject to applicable standards of this code.
19.20.040: DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS:
Development standards within public facility zones shall be as set forth in section 19.20.070, table
19.20.2 of this chapter.
19.20.050: REGULATIONS OF GENERAL APPLICABILITY:
The use and development of real property in public facility zones shall conform to regulations of general
applicability as set forth in the following chapters of this title:
A. Chapter 19.77, "Water Efficient Landscape Design and Development Standards".
. B. Chapter 19.79, "Utility and Facility System Placement Regulations".
C. Chapter 19.80, "Off Street Parking Requirements".
D. Chapter 19.82, "Signs".
E. Chapter 19.83, "Wireless Telecommunications Facilities”. ’
F. Chapter 19,84, "Conditional Uses". (when applicable)
z

: 19.20.060: REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC USES:
To the extent that use and development of real property includes any matter encompassed by a regulation
for a specific use as set forth in 19.04 or 19.76 of this title, such regulation shall apply in addition to the
requirements of this chapter and shall prevail over any conflicting provision of this chapter.
| 19.20.070: USE AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS TABLES:
| TABLE 19.20.1
PERMITTED AND CONDITIONAL USES ALLOWED IN PUBLIC FACILITY ZONE
a
Convalescent care facility, nursing home, residentia INP
ee
Gofeouse OP
Figieroteion aly, pour
A
a
a
paamemme
a
3

pemimesiie
TABLE 19.20.2 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
a Co
anne
ne
o requirement
a
eee gememanecens oad
[Maximum square footage of floor area at ground level (including, 40%
wc een i oe
a
* saad build ront: 25 feet
a
a 1
ed
sony ble etn TDR
1. Multiple parcels that are part of the same public facility “campus” may be combined in calculating the lot area.
2. Public or semipublic buildings may be allowed additional height at a ratio of one (1) foot of additional height i
for every five (5) feet of additional setback over and above the minimum from the nearest adjoining residential
land use, up to a maximum height of 65 feet.
3. Pursuant to section 19.76.065, the front, side, and/or rear yard setbacks for public uses may be reduced by the
planning commission.
4

SECTION IL Section 19.04 of the Uniform Zoning Ordinance of Kearns Metro Township, Utah is
| hereby amended to add the following definitions:
| 19.04.153 Cultural Service
“Cultural Service” means a library. museum or similar public or registered nonprofit organizational use
| displaying, preserving, and exhibiting objects of community and cultural interest in one or more of the
arts and sciences.
| 19.04.438 Protective Service
“Protective Service” means a facility for public safety and emergency services, including fire and police
protection services and emergency medical and ambulance services.
SECTION IV.
This ordinance shall take effect fifteen (15) days after its passage and upon at least one publication in a
newspaper published in and having general circulation in Kearns Metro Township, and if not so published
within fifteen (15) days then it shall take effect immediately upon its first publication.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Kearns Metro Township Council has approved, passed
and adopted this ordinance this__@ __ day of _O.Qx 9 , 2019.
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
ATTESTED:
Sherrie Swensen, County Clerk
Council Member Brown voting gre
Council Member Bush voting Sher
Council Member Schaeffer voting a
Council Member Snow voting Ss es >
Council Member Peterson voting SSeie
5

SUMMARY OF
KEARNS TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. |A- 04-02
On the $s _ day of : , 2019, the Metro Council of Keams Metro Township
adopted Ordinance No. |4- enacting Chapter 19.20, entitled “Public Facility Zones” to create
| PF and PI zones for public facilities, including parks, institutional uses, recreational sites, and civic
buildings.
| KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL:
|
| By:
YO
| ATTEST:
Sherrie orn County Clerk
Voting:
Council Member Brown voting = 2
Council Member Bush voting et
Council Member Schaeffer voting ax
Council Member Snow voting
Council Member Peterson voting ;
A complete copy of Ordinance No\4-4+03is available in the office of the Salt Lake County |
Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
6

— Soa! Teale a “4 EEARE fe) rir z son ae oN Th j
) et AGEL PCE Tas \atS
Sgeesy a BEE , =o oo :
(SS BS LS eae
Berecegce AEE ieee) a ;
| ey Hees csemege ay 5 Ga |:
| aa ew sa a Sua
| D, AAs dot |
| oF oo i Bil |
ey Y Nit que Aes |
Wy . ee a= = 2 ie |
Hee A tale
HH, , Lies
ii i | TT :
il pee |
or / :
2 Ae ! |
e B J i i | z i i |
z25 i a i|
NE Pepys il : : 4
gf Hie Ie hi ite iff pee ;
- WEE dd eed | LF La agli i 7
ee THE en
8/33) poaccaaaaanon ° |

EE Oe CL
