                                     ATTACHMENT 1

                                   ORDINANCE 2024-05-03

          File No.OAM2024-001135                                   Date: MAY 20, 2024

     AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL AMENDING ZONING
            PROVISIONS ON PARKING IN RESIDENTIAL AREAS


                                           RECITALS
WHEREAS, the City of Kearns adopted a zoning ordinance pursuant to Utah Code Ann.
Subsection 10-9a-102(2) and has authority to amend said zoning ordinance when it determines it
is necessary; and
WHEREAS, the City of Kearns is a municipality and has authority to regulate land use standards
in general pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 10-9a-104 (1); and
WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its ordinances in order to clarify the
parking restrictions for personal and recreational vehicles and to provide an avenue of
administrative relief for property owners to provide additional parking area while accounting for
the need to retain storm drainage on-site to the maximum extent feasible to protect and preserve
the public health, safety and general welfare.


BE IT ORDAINED BY THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL as follows:
1.    Sections 19.28.060, 19.48.030, and 19.48.040 are amended and read as attached hereto as
Exhibit A. The amendments made Therein are designated by underlining the new words, with
words being deleted designated by brackets with a line drawn through said words.
2.     Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part of this Ordinance
is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or specific application of this
Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall continue in full force and effect.
3.     Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting and publication
as required by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED this 20TH day of MAY 2024.


KEARNS CITY COUNCIL


                                                   OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 7 of 23
By: Kelly Bush, Mayor

ATTEST

___________________________
Recorder




Voting:
Council Member Bush           voting ___
                                     Y
Council Member Butterfield    voting ___
                                     Y
                                     Y
Council Member Snow           voting ___
                                     Y
Council Member Peterson       voting ___
                                     Y
Council Member Schaeffer      voting ___




                                           OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 8 of 23
Meeting Body: Kearns City Council

Meeting Date: May 20, 2024

Planner: Curtis Woodward

Project Name and File Number:
Residential Parking Amendments -                                       SUMMARY
OAM2024-001135
                                          The proposed ordinance amendments are intended to clarify the
Project Type:                             requirements for paved and gravel parking surfaces in single and
      Amend Text Ordinance                two-family residential zones, and to provide an avenue for
                                          administrative relief under certain conditions to the 50% front
Areas Affected: This amendment
primarily affects properties in single-
                                          yard coverage limit for front yard parking areas in the City of
and two-family residential zones, but     Kearns.
some clarifications are generally
                                                                    ATTACHMENTS
applicable to the entire City.

Key Findings:                             1.      Formal Ordinance

The proposal does not conflict with       2.     Options considered by Planning Staff with
the state code.                            explanatory notes

The proposal clarifies residential        3.      Sample Properties/Photographs
parking restrictions in harmony with
their original intent.                                               BACKGROUND

The proposal provides reasonable          Project Purpose:
flexibility for optional additional       Planning staff with the MSD have been tasked with proposing
front yard parking while maintaining      adjustments to the parking requirements for single-family residential
at least 40% permeable surface on         zones to address two issues:
residential lots.
                                          First, the Kearns code currently restricts the amount of parking
Staff    Recommendation:       Staff      (paved and gravel) in the front yard to no more than 50% of the front
requests a positive recommendation        yard area. In addition, no single yard may be covered by more than
from the planning commission for          50% impervious surface. However, due to lot size, configuration, etc.
the amendments clarifying paved           many homeowners in Kearns have limited options for providing
and gravel parking and the optional       additional on-site parking for growing family needs and/or
exceptions to the front yard
                                          recreational vehicles. Some homeowners have unknowingly paved
coverage limits.
                                          parking pads in the front yard only to find that they are in violation
                                          of the code.
                                          Second, there is some ambiguity in the Kearns code regarding the
                                          configuration of parking areas in a front yard, as well as the parking
                                          regulations that apply to recreational vehicles as opposed to
                                          personal vehicles. Clarity is needed as to where gravel parking is
                                          appropriate, and where personal vehicles and recreational vehicles
                                          may be parked.


                                                             OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 1 of 23
Project Timeline:
February, 2024 - multiple violations of the 50% front yard pavement limit were identified within the
Parkwood Estates Subdivision and letters were sent to each property owner. Many of the property owners
pointed out that many other lots in Kearns had paved parking in excess of 50% of the front yard.
March, 2024 – MSD planning staff were asked to evaluate properties in Kearns and consider reasonable
options for additional paving in front yards that were in harmony with the intent of the original ordinance.
April, 2024 – MSD planning staff were asked to clarify the parking requirements for recreational vehicles
and to clarify the circumstances under which gravel parking was acceptable. Optional ordinances were
drafted and reviewed by staff, with preferred options being chosen.
Methodology:
The original thinking was that the maximum coverage could possibly be adjusted to account for the
majority of lots where additional paved parking had been installed – possibly raising the limit from 50%
to 60% or 65%. Using aerial imagery, planning staff evaluated the lots in Parkwood Estates to calculate
the front yard coverage in paved surface for each lot. We found that several of the lots exceeded 70%
coverage in the front yard, and raising the limit high enough to account for all those yards would almost
have the same effect as eliminating the limit altogether.
As an alternative, planning staff began to consider allowing exceptions to the standard through an
application and review process. Questions that arose during the drafting process were: Under what criteria
should exception requests be considered? Also, what limitations should be in place as to the extent to
which the front yard coverage area may be increased? Staff considered such issues as storm drainage
containment, aesthetic considerations, and whether specific design standards could be approved for an
entire subdivision as opposed to one lot at a time.
As for the parking surface and RV parking clarifications, staff focused on 3 issues:
1. Eliminating conflict between the generally applicable parking surface standards in 19.48.030 and the
   parking surface standards in 19.48.040,
2. Clarifying where gravel parking may be utilized, and,
3. Clarifying the configuration of paved and gravel parking areas on residential lots.
Decision-Making Authority:
Ordinance amendments are legislative decisions approvable by the Kearns City Council. The Kearns
planning commission is a recommending body given the responsibility to hold a public hearing and vote
on a recommendation to the Council.

                                         ORDINANCE CONTENT
Sections:
The drafted ordinance amendment includes changes to the following Sections:
   1. 19.28.060 Lot Coverage
   2. 19.48.030 Specifications (from Chapter 19.48 Off Street Parking and Mobility Standards)


                                                       OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 2 of 23
   3. 19.48.040 Standards for Parking in R-1 and R-2 Residential Zones
Existing Ordinance:
The existing sections of code, with areas of emphases/change highlighted in yellow are shown below.
19.28.060 Lot Coverage
A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structures and other structures, shall cover more
   than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures shall cover more than twenty-five percent
   (25%) of the rear yard.
C. Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than fifty percent (50%) of the
   yard area between a structure and a property line. This includes both the required setback area and
   any other yard area between the primary building and the property boundary. Any lot less than
   forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the fifty percent (50%) impervious surface
   rule as long as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.
19.48.030 Specifications
Any parking facility or portion thereof shall meet the following specifications:
A. Use of Off-Street Parking, Stacking, and Loading Facilities. All vehicular parking areas, stacking
   areas, and loading areas required by this Chapter shall only be used for those designated purposes.
B. Location. Except as otherwise permitted through on-street or public parking credits, all off-street
   parking areas shall be provided on the same lot as the use it serves, or no farther than three
   hundred feet (300’) from the primary entrance of a building or structure to the nearest point of the
   parking facility along publicly available sidewalk or walkways designated on the site plan.
   1. Access to parking spaces shall be from private roadways or aisles and not from public streets.
C. Space and Aisle Dimensions. Parking stalls and aisles shall comply with the dimensional regulations
   presented in Figure 19.48.030, according to the angle of the parking and the flow of traffic.
   1. Parking stalls adjacent to a column, wall, or other obstruction must have an additional two feet
      (2’) of width to accommodate ingress/egress from the vehicle.
D. Surfacing. All off-street parking, stacking, loading areas and drive approaches from the alley or
   street shall be surfaced with asphalt, concrete, brick, stone, pavers, or an equivalent material.
   1. Pervious Surfaces. Surfaces such as pervious asphalt, pervious concrete or turf blocks are
      permitted; subject to municipal policies pertaining to stormwater management. A maintenance
      plan, outlining responsible parties, procedures, and schedules for maintenance of pervious
      pavement or permeable surfaces must be submitted and approved by the Municipal Engineer.
   2. Exception for Outdoor Storage. Surfacing materials for outdoor parking areas associated with
      vehicle or container storage may be graded and compacted gravel, provided the subject area is
      at least one hundred feet (100’) in driving distance from the nearest public street, no gravel is
      tracked off-site, and the paving surface is permitted in this Title.



                                                       OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 3 of 23
E. Driveways, General. Adequate ingress and egress to the parking area shall be provided by clearly
   defined driveways.
   1. Distance from Lot Line. All driveways, including the entry radius of the drive approach that serve
      a single primary building or principal use, shall be at least one foot (1’) from an abutting lot line.
   2. Sidewalk Continuity. Sidewalks shall extend through driveway approaches and driveways shall be
      built to the grade of the sidewalk so that driveways do not create curb cuts in the sidewalk.
   3. Driveway Surface. There shall be a hard-surfaced driveway from the public or private right-of-
      way to the required parking space. The drive surface must be a permanent, durable, hard surface
      such as concrete (including permeable concrete), asphalt (including permeable asphalt), brick,
      pavers, stone, or block. A pervious surface may be used, subject to applicable municipal
      ordinances and policies.


19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones
A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or right-of-
   way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.
   1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set forth in
      Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of this Code.
   2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
      Authority.
   3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a driveway
      or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the applicable
      provisions of this Title.
B. Paved or gravel parking areas or driveways may not occupy more than fifty percent (50%) of the
   area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that
   exceeds the fifty percent (50%) parking or driveway rule as long as that driveway does not exceed
   twenty feet (20’) in width.
C. Front Yard Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the front yard of
   a residential use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited. A legal driveway in the front yard may
   be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.
D. Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any R-1 or R-
   2 zone shall:
   1. Be parked or stored on a paved surface in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a dwelling.
      Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad which is
      constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be kept weed free.
Proposed Solution:
   1. Change the maximum paved surface coverage of 50% for any given yard (in 19.28.060) to a
      maximum cumulative coverage of 60% impervious surface on the entire lot, including buildings
      and all paved surfaces.

                                                       OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 4 of 23
   2. Allow for exceptions to the 50% front yard parking area maximum subject to:
       A. Compliance with the cumulative lot coverage maximum of 60%,
       B. Approval of the municipal engineers regarding drainage, and
       C. A minimum landscape area of 500 square feet is provided in the front yard, unless an
          alternative landscape standard is proposed and approved for an entire platted subdivision.
   3. Clarify that paved parking spaces and paved driveways may be used to park or store motor
      vehicles and recreational vehicles.
   4. Clarify that gravel parking spaces are allowed between a driveway and the nearest side lot line
      and/or in a rear or side yard provided they are accessible via paved driveway and not within the
      clear view area of a corner lot.

                                            STAFF ANALYSIS
Compatibility with Existing Plans and Ordinances:
The proposed changes were drafted with subdivision drainage engineering in mind. Generally, subdivision
drainage calculations account for an “assumed” maximum impervious surface area on residential lots.
This is the reason for the proposed maximum cumulative coverage of buildings + paved area of 60% of
the lot.
Additionally, some of the proposed changes are to eliminate any inconsistency between different sections
of the parking chapter of the Kearns code – specifically the overall parking specifications and the R-1 &
R-2 parking restrictions.
Consistency with State Code Requirements:
There are no anticipated conflicts with State Code requirements.
Anticipated Impacts:
There will likely be a few non-conformities created by the new restriction on the location of gravel parking
in front yards. MSD planning staff will need to define the internal review process for the exception
requests that will come in from front yard parking; including instructions for applicants that can be posted
on the web site. Code enforcement officers will need to be trained so they can inform residents of options
available under the new code.

                                  PLANNING COMMISSION ACTION
On May 6, 2024, the Kearns planning commission held a public hearing to consider a recommendation.
Two important notes regarding the planning commission meeting and decision:
1. The planning commission recommended approval with one recommended amendment: That
19.48.040.C.1 read as follows: “The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces on the lot
do not exceed 60% of the total lot area, unless the exception is needed to comply with the parking
requirements for an accessory dwelling unit, detached, in which case the combined coverage area
of all impervious surfaces on the lot may not exceed 70% of the total lot area, and;”



                                                       OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 5 of 23
2. During the public discussion, the planning commission asked whether the proposal was to
increase the maximum front yard coverage from 50% to 60%, with exceptions being available for
increased parking area above 60%. Staff mistakenly confirmed that this was the case, however, in
reviewing the document published for public hearing, the standard in the proposed text was kept
at 50% yard coverage. The proposal to increase the standard to 60% was considered in two of the
earlier options being discussed by staff (see attachment 2 below). In light of the planning
commission discussion and the impression given to the public by planning staff during that
discussion, it may be advisable at this point for the Kearns City Council to consider making that
amendment to the text as part of a motion to approve.



The above 2 changes are shown in red in the attached formal adoption ordinance (Attachment 1)




                                                  OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 6 of 23
                                           EXHIBIT A


19.28.060 Lot Coverage
A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structures and other structures, shall cover
   more than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.
B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures shall cover more than twenty-five
   percent (25%) of the rear yard.
C. [Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than fifty percent
   (50%) of the yard area between a structure and a property line. This includes both the
   required setback area and any other yard area between the primary building and the property
   boundary. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the
   fifty percent (50%) impervious surface rule as long as that driveway does not exceed twenty
   feet (20’) in width.] The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces, including
   buildings, driveways, paved walkways, patios and other structures, may not exceed 60% of
   the area of the lot .

(19.48.030.D)
D. Surfacing. All required off-street parking, stacking, loading areas and drive approaches from
   the alley or street shall be hard surfaced with asphalt, concrete, brick, stone, pavers, or an
   equivalent material. Optional parking spaces in R-1 and R-2 zones may be constructed of
   compacted road base or gravel in compliance with section 19.48.040.E
   1. Pervious Surfaces. Surfaces such as pervious asphalt, pervious concrete or turf blocks are
       permitted; subject to municipal policies pertaining to stormwater management. A
       maintenance plan, outlining responsible parties, procedures, and schedules for
       maintenance of pervious pavement or permeable surfaces must be submitted and
       approved by the Municipal Engineer.
   2. Exception for Outdoor Storage. Surfacing materials for outdoor parking areas associated
       with vehicle or container storage may be graded and compacted gravel, provided the
       subject area is at least one hundred feet (100’) in driving distance from the nearest public
       street, no gravel is tracked off-site, and the paving surface is permitted in this Title.

19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones
A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or
   right-of-way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.
   1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set
       forth in Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of this Code.
   2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
       Authority.
   3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a
       driveway or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the
       applicable provisions of this Title.


                                                   OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 9 of 23
B. Except as provided in subsection C,[Paved] paved or gravel parking areas or driveways may
   not occupy more than [fifty] sixty percent ([50%] 60%) of the area of a front or rear yard.
   Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the [fifty]
   percent ([50%] 60%) parking or driveway rule as long as that driveway does not exceed
   twenty feet (20’) in width.
C. Parking areas in the front yard may exceed 50% of the front yard area under the following
   conditions:
   1. The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces on the lot do not exceed 60% of
      the total lot area, unless the exception is needed to comply with the parking requirement
      for an accessory dwelling unit, in which case the combined coverage area of all
      impervious surfaces on the lot may not exceed 70% of the total lot area, and;
   2. The municipal engineer verifies that the site plan as proposed will not adversely impact
      the municipal or local storm drain system, and;
   3. Either:
      a. A landscape planting area of at least 500 square feet is maintained in the front yard, or:
      b. A front yard parking and landscape standard specific to a platted subdivision with
          approval of the majority of the homeowners is submitted for review and approved by
          the planning commission.

[C]D. [Front Yard]Paved Parking. Paved parking spaces within or adjacent to the driveway may
    be used to park or store motor vehicles and recreational vehicles in a front, side, or rear yard,
    provided that no parking space is allowed within the clear view area of intersecting streets.
    Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the front yard of a residential
    use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited, except where a gravel parking pad is
    installed in compliance with subsection 19.48.040.E. A legal driveway in the front yard may
    be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.
[D]E. Gravel Parking.[Recreational Vehicles.] A parking pad consisting of six inches of
    compacted gravel may be located between a paved driveway and the nearest side lot line in a
    front yard, provided the gravel parking pad is not within the clear view area of intersecting
    streets. Motor vehicles and [R]recreational vehicles may be parked or stored on said gravel
    parking pad provided the parking pad is kept weed free. [residential property in any R-1 or
    R-2 zone shall:] Parking pads consisting of six inches of compacted gravel may also be
    located in a side yard or rear yard provided they are accessible by paved driveway.
[1. Be parked or stored on a paved surface in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a dwelling.
    Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad which is
    constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be kept weed free.]




                                                  OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 10 of 23
                                         ATTACHMENT 2


                                          OAM2024-001135
                                                   Issues

1. Currently, the Kearns code restricts the amount of parking (paved and gravel) in the front yard to no
more than 50% of the total area of said front yard. In addition, no single yard area (front, side, or rear)
may be covered by more than 50% impervious surface. However, due to lot size, configuration, etc.
many homeowners in Kearns have limited options for providing additional on-site parking for growing
family needs and/or recreational vehicles. Cul-de-sac lots generally have less front yard area (sq. ft.)
than typical rectangular lots. In addition, a large number of lots do not have adequate space in the side
yard to provide reasonable access to a rear yard or to provide side yard parking.

Question: what is the best option for allowing additional on-site parking for lots in Kearns while keeping
in harmony with the purpose of the zoning ordinance and avoiding drainage issues? Should the 50%
front yard coverage area be increased to another amount, or should there be a way to apply for
exceptions in certain circumstances?



2. The Kearns code does not specify the configuration of parking areas in a front yard, as long as the
50% coverage is not exceeded. The current code allowing for recreational vehicles to be parked on a
gravel parking pad do not specify where that gravel parking pad may be.

Question: should parking vehicles parallel to the street in front yards be prohibited? Should gravel
parking for recreational vehicles be restricted to side yards and rear yards or at least not directly in front
of the home?




                                                       OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 11 of 23
                                     Front Yard Coverage Option 1

This option is to simply increase the maximum impervious surface in a front yard from 50% to 60% (or
some other percentage as determined by the Council). This would offer relief to some of the lots in
Parkwood Estates, but some of those lots are over 70% covered, so adopting a cap that would make all
those lots legal would almost mean waiving the cap altogether.

19.28.060 Lot Coverage

A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structures and other structures, shall cover more
   than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.

B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures shall cover more than twenty-five percent
   (25%) of the rear yard.

C. Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than sixty percent (60%) of the
   yard area between the main building and the front or rear property line. This includes both the
   required setback area and any other yard area between the primary building and the property
   boundary. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the sixty
   percent (60%) impervious surface rule as long as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in
   width.



19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones

A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or right-of-
   way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.

   1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set forth in
      Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of this Code.
   2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
      Authority.
   3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a driveway
      or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the applicable
      provisions of this Title.
B. Paved or gravel parking areas or driveways may not occupy more than sixty percent (60%) of the
   area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that
   exceeds the sixty percent (60%) parking or driveway rule as long as that driveway does not exceed
   twenty feet (20’) in width.




                                                    OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 12 of 23
                                     Front Yard Coverage Option 2

This option changes the lot coverage from 50% of front and rear, to 60% of the total lot. Then in the
parking section, there is flexibility given to allow the front yard to exceed 50%, provided the total lot
coverage still complies with the 60% cap, the engineering division verifies a subdivision drainage
problem won’t result, and there is a minimum landscape area of 500 square feet somewhere in the front
yard. Smaller yards in an R-1-6 zone would have a total front yard of at least 1500 square feet (60’ wide
by 25’ deep). This would put the maximum front yard coverage ratio on these smaller lots at
approximately 67% - assuming they meet the other criteria.

19.28.060 Lot Coverage

A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structures and other structures, shall cover more
   than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.

B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures shall cover more than twenty-five percent
   (25%) of the rear yard.

C. The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces, including buildings, driveways, paved
   walkways, patios and other structures, may not exceed 60% of the area of the lot .



19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones

A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or right-of-
   way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.

   1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set forth in
      Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of this Code.
   2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire
      Authority.
   3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a driveway
      or parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the applicable
      provisions of this Title.
B. Except as provided in subsection C, paved or gravel parking areas or driveways may not occupy
   more than fifty percent (50%) of the area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than forty feet (40’)
   wide may install one driveway that exceeds the fifty percent (50%) parking or driveway rule as long
   as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in width.

C. Parking areas in the front yard may exceed 50% of the front yard area under the following
   conditions:

1. The combined coverage area of all impervious surfaces on the lot do not exceed 60% of the total lot
   area, and;

                                                    OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 13 of 23
2. The municipal engineer verifies that the site plan as proposed will not adversely impact the
   municipal or local storm drain system, and;

3. A landscape planting area of at least 500 square feet is maintained in the front yard.



D.      Front Yard Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the front yard
of a residential use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited. A legal driveway in the front yard may
be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.

E.      Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any R-1
or R-2 zone shall:

   1. Be parked or stored on a paved surface in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a dwelling.
      Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad which is
      constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be kept weed free.




                                                     OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 14 of 23
                                      Front Yard Coverage Option 3

This option combines some elements from option 1, with the “exception” principle of option 2.
However, the exception allows for an entire subdivision to be approved with alternative set of standards
for front yard coverage, and front yard landscaping. As with option 1, the “cap” is raised to 60%, and as
with option 2, the engineering division must verify that drainage will not be a problem. Rather than set
a minimum amount of landscaping to be at 500 square feet, it allows for the landscaping minimums to
be determined as part of the package of front yard standards. This particular exception would probably
be the least likely to be utilized in existing subdivisions, because it would require the majority of
homeowners in the subdivision to approve of the new standards. However, in the case of Parkwood
Estates, where almost every homeowner has a front yard violation, this option might be the ideal
solution.

19.28.060 Lot Coverage

A. No combination of buildings, including accessory structures and other structures, shall cover more
   than forty percent (40%) of the area of the lot or parcel of land.

B. No accessory structure or group of accessory structures shall cover more than twenty-five percent
   (25%) of the rear yard.

C. Concrete, asphalt and other impervious surfaces may not cover more than sixty percent (60%) of the
   yard area between the primary building and a front or rear property line. This includes both the
   required setback area and any other yard area between the primary building and the property
   boundary. Any lot less than forty feet (40’) wide may install one driveway that exceeds the fifty
   percent (50%) impervious surface rule as long as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (20’) in
   width.



19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones

A. Residential Driveways. A driveway shall be provided for vehicular access from the street or right-of-
   way to the required parking spaces of any dwelling in an R-1 or R-2 zone.

1. The number, location, and width of driveways shall comply with the specifications set forth in
   Sections 14.12.110 and 14.36.060 of this Code.

2. Driveways over one hundred fifty feet (150’) in length are subject to approval by the Fire Authority.

3. The area within the front yard of any single- or two-family dwelling not occupied by a driveway or
   parking surface set forth above shall be landscaped in compliance with the applicable provisions of
   this Title.

B. Except as provided in subsection C, paved or gravel parking areas or driveways may not occupy
   more than sixty percent (60%) of the area of a front or rear yard. Any lot less than forty feet (40’)


                                                      OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 15 of 23
   wide may install one driveway that exceeds the sixty percent (60%) parking or driveway rule as long
   as that driveway does not exceed twenty feet (24’) in width.

C. A platted subdivision may be approved by the planning commission with alternative standards for
   paved parking surfaces and driveways that exceed the above limits under the following conditions:

1. The municipal engineer verifies that the subdivision drainage system will not adversely be impacted
   by the alternative standards;

2. The majority of property owners within the platted subdivision agree to the alternative standards;
   and,

3. Specific elements for landscaping and other design features are included with the alternative
   standards.

D. Front Yard Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the front yard of
   a residential use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited. A legal driveway in the front yard may
   be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.

E. Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any R-1 or R-
   2 zone shall:

   1. Be parked or stored on a paved surface in the front yard, side yard, or rear yard of a dwelling.
      Additionally, a recreational vehicle may be parked or stored on a parking pad which is
      constructed of six inches of compacted gravel. This area must be kept weed free.




                                                     OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 16 of 23
                                        Parking Configuration Option 1

This option separates the rules for front yard parking from side and rear yard parking. It specifies that
all motor vehicles and recreational vehicles (defined in code as to include trailers) in a front yard must
be parked on an approved parking surface as described in the standards (19.48.030.D). The option for
parking on a compacted gravel pad is only allowed in the side or rear yard. It is important to note that
“front yard” is defined as the “space on the same lot with a building between the front line of the
building and the front lot line, and extending across the full width of the lot.” If the intention is to allow
a gravel parking pad between the driveway and side lot line as long as it is not directly in front of the
home, this option will not work.



19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones

C. (or D) Front Yard Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles or recreational vehicles in the front
   yard of a residential use or residentially-zoned property is prohibited unless they are parked on a
   legal parking surface in accordance with 19.48.030.D, provided the public sidewalk is not blocked.

D. (or E) Side or Rear Yard Parking. Motor vehicles or recreational vehicles parked or stored in a side
   yar or rear yard on residential property in any R-1 or R-2 zone shall be parked or stored on a paved
   surface or on a parking pad which is constructed of six inches of compacted gravel which is kept
   weed free.




                                      Parking Configuration Option 2

This option separates the rules for recreational vehicles from other vehicles. Cars and trucks will need to
be parked on a paved surface, while recreational vehicles may be on a paved surface or gravel pad. One
caveat is that recreational vehicles in a front yard must be parked perpendicular to the dwelling on a
paved surface or gravel parking pad. However a gravel parking pad in the front yard is only allowed
between the paved driveway and an interior (not facing a street) side lot line. They may be parked
facing any direction in a side or rear yard on a paved or gravel surface.

19.48.040 Standards For Parking In R-1 And R-2 Residential Zones

C. (or D) Motor Vehicle Parking. Parking or storage of motor vehicles (other than recreational vehicles)
   in the unpaved portion of the front yard of a residential use or residentially-zoned property is
   prohibited. A legal driveway in the front yard may be used for parking, provided the public sidewalk
   is not blocked.



                                                       OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 17 of 23
D. (or E) Recreational Vehicles. Recreational vehicles parked or stored on residential property in any R-1
   or R-2 zone shall:

   1. Be parked or stored perpendicular to the front lot line on a paved surface in the front yard, or
      six-inch thick gravel parking pad located between a paved driveway and interior side lot line; or,

   2. Be parked in a side yard or rear yard of a dwelling on a paved surface or six-inch thick parking
      pad that is kept weed free.



                                      Parking Configuration Option 3

This option would be to focus on the types of parking surfaces (paved vs. compacted gravel), including
which yard each type may be in, what type of vehicles may be parked on each type, and which direction
each parking spot must face (parallel or perpendicular to the street).

C. (or D) Paved Parking. Paved parking spaces within or adjacent to the driveway may be used to park
   or store motor vehicles and recreational vehicles in a front, side, or rear yard, provided that no
   parking space is allowed within the clear view area of intersecting streets. Parking or storage of
   motor vehicles in the unpaved portion of the front yard of a residential use or residentially-zoned
   property is prohibited. A legal driveway in the front yard may be used for parking, provided the
   public sidewalk is not blocked.

D. (or E) Gravel Parking.. A parking pad consisting of six inches of compacted gravel may be located
   between a paved driveway and an interior (not facing a public street) lot line in a front yard. Motor
   vehicles and recreational vehicles may be parked or stored on said gravel parking pad provided the
   parking pad is kept weed free. Parking pads consisting of six inches of compacted gravel may also
   be located in a side yard or rear yard provided they are accessible by paved driveway.




                                                     OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 18 of 23
ATTACHMENT 3




      OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 19 of 23
OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 20 of 23
OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 21 of 23
OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 22 of 23
OAM2024-001135 Parking Amendments | Page 23 of 23
