KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 9O)- 02-2. Astbusong 84 —_ 2020
AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWNSHIP COUNCIL OF KEARNS METRO
TOWNSHIP, UTAH, ADOPTING A TEMPORARY MORATORIUM
PROHIBITING THE ACCEPTANCE OR APPROVAL OF AN APPLICATION
FOR SUBDIVISION APPROVAL, AND OTHER NEW DEVELOPMENT OR
REDEVELOPMENT IN THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
|
BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Kearns Metro Township Council
(the “Council”) held a public hearing on February 24, 2020, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-
9a-205 to consider this ordinance and take public comment on the same.
WITNESS
A. WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township (“Kearns”) was established to give the residents
of Kearns greater control over the affairs of their community, including but not limited to
planning and zoning decisions; and
B. WHEREAS, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-2a-414(3), until such time as the Council
enacts Kearns-specific planning and zoning ordinances, the planning and zoning ordinances of
Salt Lake County that were in effect as of the date of Kearns’ incorporation regulate
development within Kearns; and
C. WHEREAS, Salt Lake County adopted the current “Kearns Township General Plan” on
September 11, 2012, prior to the incorporation of the Kearns Metro Township in 2017; and
D. WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-401 charges Kearns with developing its own
general plan to guide land use decisions; and
E. WHEREAS, on November 11, 2019, the Council amended the current general plan to
include a moderate-income housing element (“Housing Element”) pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §
10-9a-404(5)(c), which requires various amendments to the Kearns Municipal Code to
implement; and
F. WHEREAS, notwithstanding the Housing Element, the Council finds that the current
general plan, which Kearns did not create or adopt, no longer reflects the best interests of Kearns
and its residents and needs to be updated and replaced to guide future development in Kearns and
to assist in revising and updating Kearns’ planning and zoning ordinances; and

G. WHEREAS, Kearns has established a General Plan Steering Committee that is working
to develop a Kearns-specific general plan, which the Council expects to adopt within the next six
months; and
H. WHEREAS, Kearns requires time to develop its new general plan and to develop Kearns-
specific planning and zoning ordinances to implement the Housing Element; and
I. WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-504 allows a municipal legislative body to enact an
ordinance establishing a temporary land use regulation, or moratorium, for any part or all of the
| area within a metro township to “prohibit or regulate the erection, construction, reconstruction,
or alteration of any building or structure or any subdivision approval” if the Council finds that a
“compelling, countervailing public interest” justifies the moratorium; and
J. WHEREAS, Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-504(1)(a) authorizes the Council to adopt a
temporary moratorium “without prior consideration of or recommendation from the planning
commission;” and
K. WHEREAS, the Council finds that there is a compelling countervailing public interest
that justifies the adoption of a six-month temporary moratorium prohibiting the acceptance or
approval of new applications for subdivision approval or other land use applications in Kearns
that involve the construction, reconstruction, or alteration of any building or structure in order to
develop and adopt the new general plan and to amend its planning and zoning ordinances to
implement the Housing Element.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP AS FOLLOWS:
1. For the purposes of this moratorium, the following definitions will apply:
a. The term “government entity” means the federal government and any of
its agencies, the State of Utah, a county, municipality, local district, special
service district, or any other political subdivision or administrative unit of the
State of Utah.
b. The term “land use application” shall have the definition set forth in Utah
Code Ann. § 10-9a-103(27).
c. The term “utility” means any private or public utility, that provides
electricity, gas, water, sewer, telecommunications, Internet service, or any
combination of these services for sale to consumers.
2. Pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-504, the Council expressly finds
that the adverse effects of accepting or approving an application for subdivision approval or
other land use application that involves the erection, construction, reconstruction, or alteration of
any building or structure before the Council adopts a Kearns-specific general plan and amends its
planning and zoning ordinances to implement the Housing Element are not in the best interests
2

of Kearns or its residents, and constitute a compelling, countervailing public interest sufficient to
justify a temporary six-month moratorium on accepting or approving such applications.

3. This moratorium remains in effect for six (6) months following the effective date
of this ordinance.

4. During the moratorium, Kearns will not accept or approve: (a) applications for
subdivision approval; or (b) other land use applications that seek approval for conditional uses,
permitted uses, subdivision approvals, site plans and other revisions to existing developments,
and planned unit developments within Kearns that involve the erection, construction,
reconstruction, or alteration of any building or structure.

| 5. The Council may grant an exception to this moratorium for a utility or
government entity if the Council determines that granting such an exception is necessary for
public health, safety, or welfare.

6. Nothing in this moratorium will impact any permits that were validly issued prior
to the effective date of this moratorium.

7. Nothing in this moratorium shall impact any entitlements properly vested prior to
this ordinance taking effect pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-9a-509, meaning that Kearns will
continue to process complete land use applications that were submitted prior to the effective date
of this ordinance.

8. This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its publication pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. § 10-3-711(1) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.

[Execution on following page]

APPROVED and ADOPTED this 24" day of February, 2020.

2

KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By:
Kelly Bush) Mayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder Metro Township Attorney
VOTING
Council Member Bush voting Yen
Council Member Butterfield voting Yen,
Council Member Peterson voting Ya
Council Member Schaeffer voting Ye
Council Member Snow voting Yor
(Complete as Applicable)
Summary of ordinance published in newspaper:
Date of publication:
Effective date of ordinance:
2

SUMMARY OF
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE No, 20702. 0%
On the 24" day of Feburary, 2020, the Kearns Metro Township Council adopted Ordinance
No. , adopted a temporary land use ordinance pursuant to Utah Code Ann. §
10-9a-504 that, subject to certain exceptions for utilities and government entities, enacts a six-
month moratorium on the acceptance and approval of: (a) an application for subdivision approval;
or (b) other land use application that seeks approval for re-zoning, conditional uses, permitted uses,
subdivision approvals, site plans and other revisions to existing developments, and planned unit
developments within Kearns that involve the erection, construction, reconstruction, or alteration
of any building or structure.
|
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By:
Kelly Bu ayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk Metro Township Attorney
VOTING
Council Member Bush voting >
Council Member Butterfield voting QP>_
Council Member Peterson voting Qe
Council Member Schaeffer voting Qe
Council Member Snow voting we
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 20-02-02. _ is available in the office of the Kearns
Metro Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
2
