KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 20-§72-03 Febru 2 2020

AN ORDINANCE OF THE TOWNSHIP COUNCIL OF KEARNS METRO

TOWNSHIP, UTAH, AMENDING AND ENACTING BUSINESS LICENSE

REQUIREMENTS AND REGULATIONS

:

BE IT KNOWN AND REMEMBERED THAT, the Kearns Metro Township Council
(the “Council”) held a public hearing on February 24, 2020, pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-
9a-205 to consider this ordinance and take public comment on the same.

WITNESS

A. WHEREAS, the Kearns Metro Township (“Kearns”) incorporated 1n 2017 as
municipality to give the residents of Kearns greater control over the affairs of their community;
and

B. WHEREAS, Section 10-1-203 of the Utah Code authorizes Kearns to “fix the
amount, terms, and manner of issuing licenses;” and

C. WHEREAS, Title 5 of the Kearns Code governs business licenses and
regulations; and

D. WHEREAS, Section 5.02.010 of the Kearns Code states that “it is unlawful for
any person to engage in or operate any business in the metro, or to use any property for such
business, without first obtaining the required license from the license official (emphasis added);
and

E. WHEREAS, the Council finds that many businesses are operating in Kearns
without first obtaining a business license and, in some cases, these businesses are operating in
ways that violate applicable laws, regulations, or ordinances governing zoning, public safety, and
other such matters; and

F. WHEREAS, notwithstanding Section 5.02.010°s clear requirement that “any
person” engaging in business within Kearns requires a business license, the Council has
discovered that businesses are installing and operating amusement devices and vending machines
without complying with Kearns’ business license requirements, including but not limited to
filing for and obtaining a business license, paying the applicable business license fees, and
obtaining the necessary inspections to ensure compliance with applicable building and zoning
requirements; and

|
G. WHEREAS, the Council finds that some business license applicants are
pressuring Kearns staff to process business license applications before the applicants have
provided all the necessary documentation needed for the staff to process their applications; and
H. WHEREAS, the Council desires to create a culture of compliance within Kearns
to ensure that business owners comply with Kearns’ business license requirements; and
I. WHEREAS, the Council desires to amend Title 5 to: (1) provide more detail on
the information needed for Keams staff to process a business license application; (2) require
denial for business license applications that do not comply with the factors of Section 5.02.140
of the Kearns Code; (3) further clarify that business license applications shall not be deemed
complete and entitled to processing until the applicant has provided all required information and
documentation; and (4) augment Section 5.02.010’s requirement that amusement devices and
vending machines must comply with Kearns’ business license requirements; and
J. WHEREAS, the Council has reviewed the proposed amendments to Title 5 of the
Kearns Code outlined herein and desires to adopt the proposed amendments.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE TOWN COUNCIL OF THE
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP AS FOLLOWS:
SECTION 1: The Council instructs and directs its business license staff and code enforcement
officers to use any and all legal means to ensure that business owners comply with Kearns’
business license requirements, including but not limited to denial of business license applications
for those businesses that begin operations before securing a business license.
SECTION 2: Chapter 5.01.010 is amended to read as follows:
5.01.010 - Definitions.
Whenever used in this title:
“Amusement device” means say video game. pinball or other machine, whether mechanically or
upon insertion of a coin. trade-token, slug or similar object. of upon payment of money or other
sii] or ainusement where or whereby the player initigies. employs or directs any forec
“Amusement iacility” means 4 facility that: (1) is located ina building or structure that is owned,
general public: (2) offers morc than four amusement devices: (3) receives the majority of ils
gross receipts fram the operation of the amusement devices: and (4) decs not offer any form of
2

19.04.0609.

“Applicant” means any person or entity that submits a business license application under this
title.

“Application” means a business license application submitted_under this title.

“Alcoholic beverages” means and includes beer and liquor, as they are defined herein.

“Beer” means and includes “light beer,” “malt liquor,” or “malted beverages,” and all products
that contain 63/100 of one percent of alcohol by volume or one-half of one percent of alcohol by
extent allowed under state law, and are obtained by fermentation, infusion or decoction of any
malted grain. Beer may or may not contain hops or other vegetable products.

“Beer-only restaurant” means a place of business in connection with a bona fide restaurant
wherein beer is sold for consumption on the premises in open containers in any size not to
exceed two liters capacity and on draft, in conjunction with an order of food that is prepared,
sold and served at the restaurant.

“Club, Dining” means a club that has dining facilities and maintains at least sixty percent of its
sales from food, and which operates under a State Club Liquor License issued pursuant to Utah
Code 32B-6 Part 4.

“Club, Equity” means a club that is owned by its members and run by a board of directors
elected by the members, such as a country club, and which operates under a State Club Liquor
License issued pursuant to Utah Code 32B-6 Part 4.

“Club, Fraternal” means a mutual benefit or patriotic association that is organized under a lodge
system, and which operates under a State Club Liquor License issued pursuant to Utah Code
32B-6 Part 4.
“Club, Social” means a general purpose club, which includes a nightclub that serves liquor, in
which a variety of food is prepared and served in connection with dining accommodations, and

| which operates under a State Club Liquor License issued pursuant to Utah Code 32B-6 Part 4.
“Director” means the director of Salt Lake County planning and development services, or a
designated agent of the director.
“License department” means the license office of the county planning and development services
division of Public Works and Municipal Services.
“License official” means the director of Salt Lake County planning and development services, or
a designated agent of the director.
3

“Liquor” means:

1. Alcohol, or an alcoholic, spirituous, vinous, fermented malt or other liquid, or
combination of liquids, a part of which is spirituous, vinous or fermented, and all other
drinks or drinkable liquids that contain more than one-half of one percent of alcohol by
volume and are suitable to use for beverage purposes.

2. “Liquor” does not include any beverage defined as a beer, malt liquor or malted beverage
that has an alcohol content of less than four percent alcohol by volume.

“Metro” means the Kcarns Metro Township.
| “Metro chair” means the chairperson of the Kerns Metro Township Council.
“Metro council means the Keams Metro Township Council.
“On-premise beer tavern” means a tavern, beer bar, parlor, lounge, cabaret, or nightclub where
only beer is sold for consumption on the premises in any size of open container not exceeding
two liters, on draft, and where the revenue from the sale of beer exceeds the revenue of the sale
of food, although food need not be sold in such establishments.
“Resort license establishment” means a resort building affiliated with a ski area that abuts the
building, which building has at least four hundred thousand square feet, and one hundred fifty
dwellings or lodging accommodations of which fifty percent must be owned by a person other
than the resort licensee, and which has a state license for the storage, sale, service, and
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises.
“Vending machine” means any device or other contrivance that is:
1 not an amusement device:
3. dispenses merchandise, gift cards, tokens. or any other thiny of value,
SECTION 3: Chapter 5.02.030 is amended to read as follows:
5.02.030 License--Application—Contents
A. In the absence of clear provisions to the contrary in specific chapters of this title, all
applications for licenses and permits required by ordinance shall be made in writing to the
| license official. Each application shall provide include all the following information:
1. The name of the business:
2. The name of the applicant;
3. The permit or license desired;
4. The location to be used, if any;
5. The time covered and the fee to be paid;
6. The name and address of the business agent residing in the county who is authorized
to receive:
1. Service of process, and
4

2. Any communication regarding applicant's license via certified mail, return
receipt requested;
7. Proot of name registration with the Utah Depariment of Commerce:
Commission or, if the business is excmpt from sales tax, official documentation
from the Utah State Tax Commission verifying that the business is not subject to
10, Written authorization from the loval owner, lessee, or operator of he location where
the business will be situaied if the applicant_is not the leval owner. lessee. or
operator of the location.
11. For an emusement device or vending machines. a site pian showine how the
713. Such additional information that the license official may request asthat the
license official reasonably determines to_be may-be needed to assist the license
official in reviewing an application and issuing the permit or Jicense.

B. An appheation that does mot include the information required in Section 5.02.030(A) ts nat

conrplete for the purpases of this Chapter and the license official shall have no obligation
BC. Any change in the above information furnished by the license applicant shall be
forwarded, in writing, within ten calendar days of the change, to the license official.
&D. Forms for all license and permits, and applications therefor, shall be prepared and
kept on file by the license official.
SECTION 4: Chapter 5.02.120 is amended to read as follows:
| §.02.120 - Compliance with Building, and-Zoning, and Other Requirements.

A. No license shall be issued for the conduct of any business, and no penmit shall be issued
for any activity if the premises and building to be used for the purposes of the business do
not fully comply with the ordinances and requirements of the metro.

B. No license or permit shall be issued for the conduct of any business or performance that
| would violate building, -er zoning, or ordinances of the metro.
applicable laws. regulations, and ordinances.
5

SECTION 5: Chapter 5.02.140 is amended to read as follows:
5.02.140 License--Application--Denial Conditions--Appeals
| A. The license official may-shall deny a license or a license renewal if the applicant has:
1. Been convicted of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude;
2. Obtained a license by fraud or deceit;
3. Failed to pay personal property taxes, Utah state sales taxes, or other required fees;
4. Violated the laws of the state, the United States Government, the ordinances of the
metro, or the rules and regulations of any local government or Utah state agency
governing operation of the business holding the license or permit; or
5. An outstanding warrant for his or her arrest.

B. The reason for denial shall be endorsed on the license or renewal application and the license
official shall return to the applicant, via certified mail, any excess fees deposited with the
application.

C. Notice shall be given that the applicant may appeal a denial within fourteen calendar days
and appear before the metro council or a licensed hearing examiner in accordance with
Section 5.02.140 through 5.02.180, below, to present reasons for setting aside denial of a
license or renewal.

D. Ifthe applicant presents adequate justification, the metro council may, in its discretion, set
aside the denial and approve the application.

1. Examples of “adequate justification” include but are not limited to:

a. The passage of a long period of time since the inappropriate or illegal act
was committed;

b. Youth or immaturity of the applicant when the inappropriate or illegal act
was committed;

c. Acts committed by others over whom the applicant lacked control.

d. Any error by the license official relating to taxes or other required fees or
in determining that any law or ordinance has been violated;

e. A disaster or Act of God precluding timely payment of taxes or other
required fees, or making compliance with any law or ordinance impossible;
or

f. A good faith and reasonable dispute, not yet resolved, between the licensee
and the license official regarding the imposition or amount of taxes or other
required fees, or of the application of a particular law or ordinance.

SECTION 6: Chapter 5.23, entitled “Amusement Devices and Vending Machines,” is added to
the Kearns Code as follows:
Chapter 5.23 Amusement Devices and Vending Machines
Section 5.23.010 Applicability
This Chapter 5.23 shall apply to all applications filed after March 1, 2020.
6

Section 5.23.020 License Requirements

A. Except as otherwise provided in this Chapter 5.23, the owner or operator of an
amusement device or vending machine is subject to the requirements of Title 5.

B. A business license is required for any amusement device or vending machine and
must be obtained before an amusement device or vending machine may be
operated. If an amusement device or vending machine is to be located within
another business, the business license for the amusement device or vending
machine shall be in addition to the business license issued for the underlying
business, provided:

a. Only one application and business license shall be required for amusement
devices and vending machines operated in the same location that are
substantially similar in nature and operation; and

b. Only one application and business license shall be required for an amusement
facility.

C. All owners or operators of an amusement device or vending machine must either
(1) obtain and maintain a sales tax identification number for each amusement
device or vending machine from the Utah State Tax Commission and provide the
sales tax identification number to the license official; or (2) provide the license
official a document in writing from the Utah State Tax Commission that states that
the amusement device or vending machine is exempt from sales tax. Only one sales
tax identification number shall be required for multiple amusement devices or
vending machines operated in the same location if the amusement devices or
vending machines are substantially similar in nature and in operation.

Dz. The license official may authorize the installation of an amusement device or
vending machine in writing prior to the issuance of a business license to allow for
inspections to ensure that the amusement device or vending machine complies with
applicable laws, regulations, and ordinances. No amusement device or vending
machine shall be installed without the prior written authorization of the license
official. Authorization from the license official to install an amusement device or
vending machine for inspection purposes does not constitute a business license and
the machine may only be operated temporarily for the purposes of any required
inspections. If the license official denies an application after authorizing the
installation of an amusement device or vending machine, the applicant shall remove
the amusement device or vending machine at their sole cost and expense as soon as
is reasonably practicable following the denial.

SECTION 7: This ordinance shall take effect immediately upon its publication pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. § 10-3-711(1) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.
APPROVED and ADOPTED this 24th day of February, 2020.
7

KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
| ry
» Kap b Baas
Kelly "oc
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
i Ji. iff
4

Sherrie Swensen, Clerk/Recorder Metro Township Attorney

VOTING

Council Member Bush voting “on

Council Member Butterfield voting hh

Council Member Peterson voting %

Council Member Schaeffer voting ‘en

Council Member Snow voting Yen
fp tS
| (Complete as Applicable)

Summary of ordinance published in newspaper: _
Date of publication: — -
Effective date of ordinance: __ __
8

SUMMARY OF
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. _2.0762-03
On the 24th day of February, 2020, the Kearns Metro Township Council adopted

Ordinance No. , which amends Title 5, Business Licenses and Regulations of

the Kearns Metro Township Code of Ordinances, by requiring that an owner or operator obtain

certain business licenses for the operation of amusement devices and vending machines and obtain

and maintain a sales tax identification number for amusement devices and vending machines.

KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
\
By: _ DA :
Kelly Bush, (Mayo
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
fe 4 fo 17

Sherrie Swensen, Clerk Metro Township Attorney

VOTING

Council Member Bush voting Yo

Council Member Butterfield voting Ven

Council Member Peterson voting . 11 A
Council Member Schaeffer voting Yee
Council Member Snow voting 7 Te
A complete copy of Ordinance N6N0-07- D _____ is available in the office of the Kearns
Metro Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.

9
