+
ORDINANCE NO. \47\0- 23 Ockobre \U 2019
AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
REPEALING AND REPLACING TITLE 2 OF THE KEARNS METRO
TOWNSHIP CODE REGARDING COUNCIL ADMINISTRATION
RECITALS

WHEREAS, Title 2 of the Kearns Metro Township Code (the “Code”) addresses the
administration of the Kearns Metro Township Council (the “Council”) and related matters.

WHEREAS, Salt Lake County (the “County”) originally adopted Title 2 prior to Kearns’
incorporation and the title is specific to County Council rather than the Council and does account
for the metro township form of municipal governance;

WHEREAS, Title 2, as currently constituted, became part of the Code when Kearns
incorporated pursuant to Utah Code Ann. § 10-2a-414(3), which specifies that each County
ordinance in effect on the day a metro township incorporates remains in effect as a metro township
ordinance until the metro township amends or repeals the ordinance; and

WHEREAS, the Council desires to repeal and replace Title 2 to more specifically address
the needs of Kearns, to better reflect the Council’s actual administration, and to comport with the
metro township form of municipal government; and

WHEREAS, the Council has determined that the attached, revised version of Title 2 will
serve the best interests of the Kearns Metro Township and the general public.

NOW, THEREFORE, IT IS HEREBY RESOLVED by the Kearns Metro Township
Council that:

1. Title 2 of the Code is repealed and replaced in its entirety with the ordinance
attached hereto; and
2. The ordinance will become effective 20 days after publication pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. § 10-3-711(1) and Utah Code Ann. § 10-3-712.
[Execution on following page]

APPROVED and ADOPTED this 7th day of October, 2019.
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By:
elly Bu€h, \Mayor
\
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Sherrie Swensen, Cferk/Recorder METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING
Council Member Bush voting Qu
Council Member Brown voting
Council Member Peterson voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting .
Council Member Snow voting
(Complete as Applicable)
Summary of ordinance published in newspaper:
Date of publication:
Effective date of ordinance:

SUMMARY OF
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO.
On the 7th day of October, 2019, the Kearns Metro Township Council adopted Ordinance
No. , repealing and replacing Title 2 of the Kearns Metro Township Code
regarding the administration of the Metro Township and the duties and responsibilities of the
Kearns Metro Township Council.
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL
By
Kelly Bush, Mayor
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
Sherrie Swensen, Clerk METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
VOTING
Council Member Bush voting
Council Member Brown voting
Council Member Peterson voting
Council Member Schaeffer voting
Council Member Snow voting
A complete copy of Ordinance No. is available in the office of the Kearns
Metro Township Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.

TITLE 2
ADMINISTRATION AND PERSONNEL

CHAPTER 2.04 -- METRO TOWNSHIP COUNCIL

2.04.010 Definitions

For the purposes of this Chapter, the following definitions shall apply:

A. “Council” shall mean the Kearns Metro Township Council.

B. “County” shall mean Salt Lake County.

C. “Mayor” shall mean the Kearns Metro Township Mayor.

D. “Metro Township” shall mean the Kearns Metro Township.

2.04.020 Powers and Duties
The Council shall be the governing body of Metro Township government, and may exercise those
powers and authorities and be bound by those duties and responsibilities set out in state law and
in Metro Township ordinances.

2.04.030 Eligibility and Voting Districts

The Council shall consist of five members, elected by district as provided in state law. Each of

the members shall have been a registered voters of the Metro Township for at least one year

immediately preceding the general election, and have been an registered voters of the Metro

Township for at least one year immediately preceding the general election, and elected by the

qualified registered voters of the Metro Township. Voting districts shall be determined as set

forth in state law.

2.04.040 Term Of Office

Council members shall be elected at the next municipal election preceding the expiration of the

term of office of incumbents. Council members shall be elected for four years. Each shall hold

office for the term of which elected and until a successor is elected and has qualified.

2.04.050 Vacancies

When a vacancy occurs in the Council, through ineligibility, resignation or death of an

incumbent or of an officer-elect before qualifying, or refusal to act, or for any other reason, the

vacancy shall be filled as provided in state law.

4

2.04.060 Election Of Mayor And Vice-Chair--Appointment Of Staff—Administrative
Matters
A. At its first meeting of each year, the Council shall elect one Council member to serve as
| Mayor of the Metro Township and to chair the Council and another Council member to
serve as vice-chair. The terms of the Mayor and vice-chair shall begin on the date of
their election and shall continue until: (1) the first Council meeting of each year when
the Council elects the Mayor and vice-chair as provided in this Section, or (2) until the
Mayor or vice chair leaves office, whichever occurs first. If the Mayor or vice-chair is
unable to complete their term for any reason, the Council shall elect another Council
member to serve out the remainder of the Mayor’s or vice chair’s unexpired term.

B. The Council may make such staff appointments as are necessary for the proper conduct
of its business.

C. The Council may, from time to time, determine a method or order for the selection of a
Council member to act as a temporary Mayor in the absence of the Mayor and vice-
chair; and take such action as may be reasonable and necessary for the conduct of
Council activities and the fulfilling of Council functions and responsibilities.

D. The Mayor, vice-chair or temporary Mayor, as the case may be, shall be responsible for
the conduct of all meetings, preparation of the agenda for all meetings, and meeting the
needs of the Council between meetings, including the providing of assistance and the
gathering of information for the Council and the performance of duties assigned by the
Council or by ordinance, the plan or by law.

E. In case of the chair and vice-chair's absence or inability to act, the members present
must, by an order entered in their minutes, select one of the members to act as Mayor
temporarily.

F. Any member of the Council may administer oaths to any person when necessary in the
performance of official duties.

2.04.060 Powers And Duties of Mayor

A. The Mayor shall be the chief executive officer of the Metro Township government and
shall have such powers and duties as are prescribed by statute and by these ordinances,
and shall serve as a voting member and chair of the Council.

B. The Mayor shall serve as the Metro Township's representative on the board of directors
of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District and, as such, shall exercise those
powers and duties relative to the management of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
Services District as are provided by law.

C. The Mayor shall exercise those executive branch powers and duties set out by state law,
which have not been expressly vested, by state law or Metro Township ordinances, in

5

another elected official.
2.04.070 Clerk—Minutes

A. The County clerk, or designee, shall serve as the Metro Township recorder and clerk to
the Council at all meetings, provided that the Council may appoint a person other than
the County clerk to serve as the Metro Township clerk or recorder as provided in state
law.

B. The clerk, or designee, shall provide copies of the minutes of all meetings of the Council
to Council members in a manner and within the times as established by the Council and
agreed upon by the clerk.

C. In accordance with state law, the books, records and accounts of the Council must be
maintained at the office of the clerk and open at all times during usual business hours
for public inspection.

D. The records and minutes of the Council must be signed by the Mayor and the clerk.

2.04.080 Council Meetings

A. All meetings of the Council must be public except as provided in this chapter and by
state law. Official action may be taken by the Council only in open public meetings
unless otherwise permitted by state law.

B. The Council shall conduct its business in accordance with the Utah Open and Public
Meetings Act, Chapter 4 of Title 52. Utah Code Annotate, 1953, as amended, as it now
exists or as it may hereinafter be amended, with respect to open and public meetings.

C. The Council conducts the following types of meetings:

1. Regular Meetings;

2. Special Meetings;

3. Closed Meetings;

4, Work and other Meetings; and
5. Emergency Meetings

D. The Council shall give public written notice at least once each year of its annual meeting
schedule for regular meetings. The public notice shall specify the date, time and place
of such meetings.

E. The Council, by majority vote of the members present, may direct the removal of any

6

person who willfully disrupts a Council meeting to the extent that orderly conduct is
seriously compromised.

F. The attorney and auditor or their designees may attend and assist the Council at all
meetings, but shall attend and assist the Council at all meetings when requested.

2.04.090 Work Meetings

A. The Council shall conduct its regular work sessions at the hour and place designated by
the Mayor.

B. Work meetings shall be scheduled or cancelled as the public business requires and shall
consist of discussion, review, testimony, requests and information from the Metro
Township and officers and staff, presentations by the public, review of regular meeting
agendas, preparation for regular meetings, and such other matters and activities as may
be necessary or scheduled by the Mayor in consultation with the Council.

C. Work meetings shall be open to the public in accordance with state law and public notice
shall be given of all meetings in the same manner as required for regular meetings.

D. A quorum of Council members is necessary to conduct work meetings.

2.04.100 Regular/Special Meetings
1. The Council shall:

a. by ordinance prescribe the time and place for holding its regular meeting,
subject to Subsection (1)(b); and

b. hold a regular meeting at least once each month.

2. The Mayor or two Council members may order the convening of a special meeting
of the Council.

a. Each order convening a special meeting of the Council shall:

i. be entered in the minutes of the Council; and
ii, provide at least three hours' notice of the special meeting.

b. The recorder or clerk shall serve notice of the special meeting on each
Council member who did not sign the order by delivering the notice
personally or by leaving it at the member's usual place of abode.

c. The personal appearance by the Council member at a special meeting of
the Council constitutes a waiver of the notice required under Subsection

7

(2)(b).
2.04.110 Closed Meetings

A. A closed meeting of the Council may be held upon the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
the members present at an open meeting for which notice has been given in accordance
with state law; provided, however, that a quorum must be present.

B. No closed meeting is allowed except as to matters exempted from open meetings under
the Utah Open and Public Meetings Act, Section 52-4-204. Utah Code Ann. (1953, as
amended), as it now exists or as it may hereinafter be amended.

C. No official action may be taken at a closed meeting.

D. The reason or reasons for holding a closed meeting and the vote thereon shall be entered
in the minutes of the meeting.

2.04.120 Emergency Meetings

When, because of unforeseen circumstances, it is necessary for the Council to hold an emergency
meeting to consider matters of an emergency or urgent nature, the normal notice requirements

for a meeting may be disregarded and the best notice practicable given to the Council members

and the public. No such emergency meeting of the Council shall be held unless an attempt has

been made to notify all Council members and a majority of the Council votes in the affirmative

to hold the meeting. Action may not be taken at an emergency meeting unless a quorum is

present. A record shall be kept of the means utilized to contact the members and the number

voting and names of the members voting to hold the meeting.

2.04.130 Additional Committees

A. The Council may establish additional committees as it deems appropriate and may
convene committee meetings at any time for the purpose of study, discussion,
investigation, formal hearings or inquiries, workshops, training, or presentations by or
responses from citizens or other interested persons or groups.

B. No official action may be taken in committee meetings other than the adoption of non-
binding recommendations to the Council.

C. Committee meetings shall be open to the public in accordance with state law and public
notice shall be given of all committee meetings in the same manner as required for
regular meetings.

2.04.140 Agenda

A. An agenda shall be prepared by the Mayor or the vice-chair in the Mayor's absence or

the temporary Mayor, in the absence of both the Mayor and vice-chair, in advance of
8

each meeting, including emergency meetings to the extent possible. The agenda shall
be published as provided by state law at least twenty-four hours in advance of the
meeting.

B. Matters received from any member of the Council or the Mayor shall be placed on the
agenda. Requests for matters to be placed upon the agenda by persons other than Council
members or Mayor, shall be placed on the agenda at the discretion of the Mayor.

C. The Council, for its regular, special and committee meetings, shall announce and post
its agenda and provide notice of such meetings, in accordance with the provisions of
state law, at least twenty-four hours prior to the convening of the Council meeting and
posted on the Utah Public Notice Website. Written notice of the agenda and meeting
shall be posted at the office of the Council or the meeting location, as the case may be.
For an emergency meeting, public notice and notice to the news media shall be given as
may be practical under the circumstances.

D. The agenda may be changed by a majority vote of the Council, but no action may be
taken on new matters introduced to the agenda unless twenty-four hours' notice has been
duly given to the public or unless the matter is of an emergency nature, as approved by
a separate majority vote of Council members present.

E. All agenda items pertaining to pending or proposed actions shall be considered as
proposals for adoption. In the absence of a motion to adopt, postpone, or table pending
or proposed actions, the Mayor shall, upon the conclusion of discussion on the matter,
declare that the proposal fails adoption or, at the Mayor's discretion, declare the matter
to be held over for a subsequent meeting.

2.04.150 Public Hearings

A. Public hearings shall be deemed to include only those hearings specifically noticed and
required to be conducted by the Council by state law or otherwise for the purposes of
providing opportunities for the general public to comment upon and make inquiries or
presentations with respect to specific proposals or matters under consideration by the
Council including, but not limited to, planning and zoning, ordinances, budget hearings,
hearings on the proposed issuance of bonds or debt, or other matters of significant public
interest. The Council at its discretion may schedule public hearings for other matters
under consideration.

B. Public hearings may be held as part of a regular special, committee, emergency or other
meeting of the Council. The decision to conduct a public hearing shall be made by the
Council at a regular, special or emergency meeting.

C. Schedules for public hearings shall be announced by the Mayor and public notice shall
be given in the manner required for any public meeting of the Council as required by
law and this chapter. The notice shall include the specific subject matter of the public
hearing as well as the time, date and place thereof.

9

D. At the beginning of any public hearing, the Mayor may publicly state the rules of
conduct for such public meetings including any time limits on speakers' presentations,
any requirement of submitting materials in writing with sufficient copies for all Council
members and the clerk, and such other rules as may be reasonably necessary for the
proper and expeditious conduct of the public hearing.

E. Public hearings shall be opened upon the declaration of the Mayor that the Council is at
that time in a public hearing and the Mayor shall state the specific purpose of that public
hearing. Upon the conclusion of the public hearing and a motion duly made, seconded,
and carried by a majority of the Council, the Mayor shall declare the public hearing
concluded or continued to another date, if permitted by law. The Mayor shall state the
conditions of any continuance.

F. Where permitted by law, the Council may rehear any matter decided after a public
hearing where an aggrieved person files a written request for rehearing that includes
new evidence which the Council determines to justify reconsideration of its decisions.
A request for rehearing shall be filed within ten days from the date of the original
decision. If a request for rehearing is granted by the Council, the rehearing shall follow
the same procedures as the original hearing. No rehearing shall be allowed on any matter
where a rehearing would be contrary to state law.

2.04.160 Form Of Action
The Council may take action in the form of ordinances, policies, resolutions, motions upon
requests or memorials.

A. Ordinances.

1. The Council, except as expressly limited by statute, may adopt any ordinance to
regulate, require, prohibit, govern, control or supervise any activities, business,
conduct, or condition.

2. All ordinances must be in written form before a vote is taken.

3. Except for ordinances for the codification or general revision of Metro Township
ordinances, no ordinance shall be passed containing more than one subject.

4. Any ordinance passed by the Council shall contain and be in substantially the
following order and form:

a. Ordinance number and date;
b. A short title which indicates the nature of the subject matter of the
ordinance;
10

c. A long title stating the need or reason for the ordinance and summarizing
its contents;

d. An ordaining clause which states "The Kearns Metro Township Council
ordains as follows:";

e. The body or subject of the ordinance;

f. When applicable, a statement indicating the penalty for violation of the
ordinance;

g. A statement indicating the effective date of the ordinance;

h. A signature line for the Mayor or acting Mayor and for the clerk;

i. An ordinance history indicating the approval or disapproval of the
Council members and an ordinance summary if required by statute.

5. Except in exigent circumstances, or when directed by a majority of Council
members present, all ordinances, including ordinances relating to planning and
zoning matters, shall be introduced in writing and read or described to the Council
prior to the Council's consideration for adoption of the ordinance. Copies of the
proposed ordinance shall be noticed and posted in accordance with state law, along
with the agenda for the meeting at which the ordinance is to be considered.

6. Upon adoption, each ordinance shall be signed as required within five days.

B. Resolutions.

1. Resolutions shall be considered and adopted in those matters required by law or
otherwise and may be used for policy declarations and proposals not appropriately
addressed by ordinance and may be used to exercise Council authority in matters
of statements of policy and communication.

2. Resolutions shall be in a form and contain sections substantially similar to that
prescribed for ordinances.

C. Memorials.

1. Memorials shall be adopted in the form of resolutions or motions, as may be
deemed appropriate, and shall be used as a statement of policy to respond to or
commend persons or groups for notable activities which have been called to the
attention of the Council.

2. Memorials may be considered and adopted at the same meeting in which they
have been proposed and in all events shall be recorded in the minutes.

11

D. Policies, Procedures, Rules and Regulations.

1. Policies, procedures, rules and regulations shall be considered and adopted in
those matters determined to be appropriate by the Council and not prohibited by
statute.

2. Policies, procedures, rules and regulations shall be presented, considered and
given notice in the same manner as prescribed for ordinances and shall be in such
form as directed by the Council.

E. All resolutions, policies, procedures, rules, regulations and ordinances shall be
numbered, recorded and maintained in accordance with provisions of state law.
2.04.170 Quorum
The number of Council members necessary to constitute a quorum is three.
2.04.180 Rules Of Order and Procedure—General
Procedural rules or order and procedure not specifically provided herein or by state law, or Metro
Township ordinance, shall be regulated, interpreted and construed in accordance with the
Council’s Rules of Order and Procedure as may be adopted by resolution from time to time by
the Council.
2.04.190 Board Appointment Duties and Responsibilities
Pursuant to and in accordance with all applicable provisions of these ordinances, of the plan,
and of the laws of the state, the appointment and reappointment of members of boards within
the jurisdiction and under the appointment or consent power of the Council shall be as herein
provided.
A. All board appointments or reappointments of Council members shall be made annually
with the consent of a majority of the Council.
B. The following shall apply to board appointments involving individuals who are not
members of the Council:
1. Boards whose members hold terms of three years or less, board members may be
reappointed to a consecutive term on their respective boards with the consent of
a majority of the Council; and
2. For boards whose members hold terms of longer than three years, no board
member shall be reappointed to a consecutive term on the same board unless, for
good cause shown and to prevent significant disruption of current board activities,
the Council approves such reappointment.
12

C. The restrictions upon the reappointment of board members, as provided under this
section, shall be limited to the extent that this section may be in direct conflict with
federal or state law and where the appointment of board members is set out by or limited
under the laws of the United States or the state of Utah.

D. When representing the Metro Township or the Council on any board or similar
organization, Council members shall vote according to the will of the Council on those
matters for which the Council has taken an official position. In the absence of an official
position by the Council, Council members shall exercise their best judgment to
determine how best to vote in accordance with the best interests of the Metro Township.

CHAPTER 2.07 -METRO TOWNSHIP ETHICS CODE

2.07.010 Ethics Statement

All persons holding office or in the employment of the Metro Township, before commencing the
duties of their respective offices, shall read and review the following ethics statement:
“Employees of the Kearns Metro Township support, obey and defend the Constitution of the
United States, The Constitution of the State of Utah, the laws of the State of Utah, and the
ordinances of Kearns Metro Township, to the best of their abilities and will always strive to meet
the highest ethical standards implicit in their employment and in the furtherance of the best
public interest.”

2.07.020 Ethics Training

All Metro Township elected officials and employees shall attend ethics training every two years
regarding their ethical duties and responsibilities as established by state law and by the Kearns
Metro Township Ethics Code. This training shall be conducted based on a specific curriculum
approved by the Council. Attendance at the ethics training is mandatory.

2.07.030 Government In The Sunshine

A. The Metro Township is considered an open records and open meetings government and
all elected officials, officers and employees are directed to observe, with exactness, all
applicable provisions of state statute and Metro Township ordinance regarding open
records and open meetings including, but not limited to, the Government Records
Access and Management Act (GRAMA), the Open Meetings Act (ACT) and Metro
Township ordinances and policies regarding those state laws.

1. In the interests of maintaining openness and transparency in Metro Township
records, Metro Township officers and employees are directed to give strong
consideration to the application of an impartial balancing test established by
GRAMA when determining whether a record should be released. Officers and
employees shall seek to achieve GRAMA's express goals of openness while also

13

giving due consideration to individual privacy rights. Where justified, in
accordance with GRAMA, and all other considerations being equal, access should
be balanced in favor of openness and transparency.

a. As technology presents new developments in the means of
communication, including electronic messaging and the "social media,"
employees and officers are directed to apply GRAMA standards of
openness or confidentiality based on the content of a record, regardless of
the medium used.

b. Whereas many modern forums of electronic media, such as the so-called
"social media," reduce or eliminate the Metro Township's ability to retain,
store, retrieve and copy such communications, officers and employees are
encouraged to seek appropriate and cost effective solutions to make
government records which are transmitted in electronic media and are
classified as public more available for public review and distribution.

B. All meetings of any deliberative board, committee, or agency covered by the Open
Meetings Act, including boards or committees conducting quasi-judicial administrative
hearings, are directed to conduct all aspects of their decision making process, including
both the gathering of evidence and deliberations regarding a decision, in an open and
public meeting, with appropriate notice and minutes, unless the nature of the hearing
permits closure to the public under the exceptions provided in the Act.

1. Under rare circumstances, where a deliberative body has good cause to close only
its deliberation sessions, and is within the provisions and intent of Utah law, the
body may conduct only its deliberative process in private, in accordance with the
standards established by applicable decisions of the Utah Supreme Court.

2. All other provisions of state law and the Open Meetings Act shall be otherwise
applicable to bodies and meetings as defined in the law and to those exceptions in
statute which permit closed meetings, under the circumstances and in accordance
with the provisions of Section 52-4-205 of the Act.

2.07.040 Conflict Of Interest

A. For the purposes of this section only, the following definitions control:

1. "Compensation" or "compensated" means anything of economic value, however
designated, which is paid, loaned, granted, given, donated, or transferred to any
person or business entity for or in consideration of personal services, materials,
property, or any other thing whatsoever.

2. "Employee" means a person who is employed on a full-time, part-time, or contract
basis by the Metro Township. "Employee" shall include elected and appointed
officers of the Metro Township.

14

| 3. "Financial interest" means, but may not be limited to, any employment by or

| compensated representation as an agent of any individual, corporation, business
entity, organization, or committee. A financial interest also includes any beneficial
ownership of one percent or more of a corporation or other business entity.

4. "Governmental action" means any official action on the part of the Metro
Township, including, but not limited to:

a. Any decision, determination, finding, ruling, or order, or discussions
thereof;

b. Any grant, payment, award, license, contract, subcontract, transaction,
decision, sanction, or approval, or the denial thereof, or the failure to act
in respect thereto; or

c. Any legislative, administrative, appointive, or discretionary act of any
public servant or volunteer public servant.

5. "Representative" means any authorized agent of the Metro Township.
Representative shall include any appointed person, other than an employee,
serving on a special, regular, or full-time committee, commission, authority,
agency, or board of the Metro Township, who is not paid a salary or an hourly
wage by the Metro Township for his or her services thereon.

6. "Restricted conflict of interest" means any financial interest held by the employee
or representative of the Metro Township, or by members of an employee's or
representative's household, or those providing regular financial support to the
employee or representative.

7. "Unrestricted conflict" or "unrestricted conflict of interest" means any and all
other interests including political, family, fraternal, social, and other interests or
associations which may reasonably create the appearance or the actuality of a
conflict of interest between an employee's or representative's outside interest and
his or her Metro Township responsibilities. "Unrestricted conflict" or "unrestricted
conflict of interest" also means other conflicts as defined by state law, and any
campaign contribution made to the officer, employee, or representative, or to any
member of his or her household, of more than five hundred dollars during the prior
calendar year.

B. General prohibitions.

1. Metro Township employees are governed by the Municipal Officers and
Employees Disclosure Act (10-3-1301, et seq.) regarding outside interests and
conflicts that are prohibited or that require disclosure.

2. Officers, Employees and representatives are prohibited from using non-public

15

information in a manner that could provide themselves or another a gain or benefit.

3. Officer, Employees and representatives shall not use or attempt to use their
position in a manner that could secure special privileges or exemptions for
themselves or others.

4. Employees and representatives are prohibited from engaging in any outside
activity, or financial investment which constitutes a restricted conflict of interest
where such conflict could impair their judgment regarding the faithful
performance of Metro Township responsibilities.

C. Restricted conflicts of interest.

1. Employees and representatives are required to fully and publicly disclose any
restricted conflict of interest and shall recuse themselves from, and have no
involvement in, any governmental action in which they have a restricted conflict
of interest.

2. If an employee or representative is not aware of the financial interest, he or she
must disclose the financial interest and recuse as soon as he or she learns of the
financial interest.

3. Any action, vote, contract, or other governmental action which has been
undertaken by an officer, employee, or representative who has a restricted conflict
of interest shall be terminable by the body that took the action, or by the Metro
Township officer with authority to void or terminate the action. That body or
Metro Township officer may also ratify any prior governmental action that was
taken in violation of this section.

D. Unrestricted conflicts of interest.

1. Employees and representatives must publicly disclose any and all unrestricted
conflicts of interest at any meeting, hearing, or deliberation where the employee
or representative is present and the unrestricted conflict of interest could impair
the judgment of the employee or representative.

2. Employees or representatives who have unrestricted conflicts are not required to
recuse themselves but may do so.

E. Disclosure.

1. Employees and representatives are required to comply with all legal requirements
setting a responsibility to disclose restricted and unrestricted conflicts of interests
between their public duties and private activities. In particular, officials and
employees are bound by the requirements of the Municipal Officer's and
Employees Ethics Act (10-3-1301, et seq.).

16

2. Oral or written disclosures must be made in accordance with state law, other
sources of the law, and this section.

3. Officers and Employees are required to file written disclosures in accordance with
the provisions of state law and Metro Township ordinance. AJl written disclosures
must be kept current and are filed both with the officer or employee's immediate
chain of command and with the Council.

F. Contractual representatives.

|. Individuals and business entities who contract to represent the Metro Township's
interests shall disclose to the Metro Township the names of other clients they
represent and those clients' respective issues and interests that are relevant to the
Metro Township's interests. Unless they receive written permission from the
Mayor and Council, such individuals or business entities are prohibited from
representing other clients about the same or substantially same issues and interests
as covered by the Metro Township representation.

2. Individuals and business entities who are contracted to represent the Metro
Township's interests by lobbying the State Legislature or any other municipal,
state or federal office or agency are prohibited from engaging in any lobbying of
Metro Township officers, employees, agencies or offices, as defined in Section
2.73.010 of this title.

2.07.050_ Metro Township Endorsements

Notwithstanding the provisions of this chapter, the Metro Township or a Metro Township

official may encourage support from a public or private individual or institution, whether in

financial contributions or by other means, on behalf of an organization or activity that benefits

the community.

2.07.060 Definitions

The terms defined in this section shall have the following meaning:

"Gifts" means anything of value including a loan at a rate that is substantially less than a

prevalent commercial rate, compensation for goods or services exceeding fair market value,

goods or services provided for less than fair market value, gratuity, entertainment, hospitality or

forbearance, unless consideration of equal or greater value is received.

"Honoraria" means the offering or acceptance of perquisite, gift or anything of value for

speaking, writing or participating in a meeting, convention, social event, meal or like gathering.

"Purchasing official" means any officer or employee who recommends for final action, prepares

specifications, or approves or rejects any part of a specific procurement or disposal of goods,
17

services, or real property or any specific contract related to a procurement of goods or services
or disposal of property.

2.07.070 Gifts

Officers and employees of the Metro Township shall not knowingly accept or solicit any gift for
themselves, family members or organizations of the officer or employee or others, except as
permitted in Section 2.07.100.

2.07.080 Gifts And The Procurement Process

A. Without exception, receipt or solicitation of any gift or a request for employment by a
purchasing official from any person including a vendor of goods, seller or buyer of real
property, or service provider is illegal and punishable as provided by statute.

B. It is unlawful and punishable as provided by statute for any payment, gift or offer of
employment to be offered or made by any person to a public officer or employee or
contractor of the Metro Township to obtain a specific procurement, disposal, contract
or subcontract.

C. Contracts entered into resulting from a violation of this section are voidable and any
payments made on these contracts shall be recoverable to the Metro Township.

2.07.090 Honoraria

Officers and employees of the Metro Township shall not accept honoraria in regard to activities
related to their Metro Township duties or purpose except as provided in Section 2.07.207.
2.07.100 Exceptions

The following are exceptions to the gifts and honoraria requirements of this chapter except as
provided in Section 2.07.080:

A. The gift is a political contribution authorized by law and reported as part of the campaign
disclosure requirements of the Metro Township or any other governmental entity;

B. Token items of nominal value, including but not limited to, educational materials, t-
shirts, coffee mugs, parking validations or other commemorative or similar souvenir
items;

C. Snacks, beverages or educational or informational materials provided at meetings or
other functions;

D. Transportation to and attendance at conventions, seminars, or events of a primarily
educational nature, including meals and entertainment that are part of the required
registration, and any associated educational or informational materials directly related
to the official duties of the officer or employee;

18

E. Gifts not related to the activities of the officer and employee with the Metro Township;

F. Awards publicly made for public service;

G. Food or a beverage given at a widely attended reception, meal, or meeting by an
organization before whom the recipient appears to represent the Metro Township, make
a speech, answer questions or participate in part of a program;

H. Attendance at political events that are primarily sponsored by a political party or
political candidate;

I. Flowers, plants, balloons or similar tokens which are given to express condolences,
congratulations, or sympathy for ill health, or to commemorate holiday or special
occasions;

J. Metro Township sponsored programs, activities, or work;

K. Gifts for the Metro Township that become the property of the Metro Township;

L. Gifts to Metro Township officers, employees or agencies from other Metro Township
officers, employees or agencies;

M. Death transfers including bequests and inheritances; and

N. Gifts to blind trusts related to legal defense funds for imminent or pending litigation
against officers or employees (related to their official duties).

2.07.110 Restrictions on Post-Metro Township Employment

A. When a Metro Township officer or FLSA exempt employee, excluding uncompensated
volunteers, voluntarily leaves Metro Township service he or she is prohibited for a
period of one year from directly communicating, for compensation, with the Metro
Township for the purpose of attempting to influence any action on any matter pending
before the Metro Township. This prohibition does not apply to routine government
services which do not require the exercise of discretion or to the normal scope of a
person's licensed professional capacity.

B. Any private business entity or individual whose employee or contractor is found to be
in violation of this section shall be prohibited from contracting or conducting any non-
statutory transaction with the Metro Township for a period of one year from date of the
violation.

C. A former officer or employee is not prohibited from holding any Metro Township office,
but must disclose in writing and resolve any conflicts of interest arising from their
previous Metro Township employment which conflicts of interest would tend to
interfere with the Metro Township’s best interest.

19

2.07.120 Nepotism
The Council shall adopt and maintain in place a policy to comply with Utah Code Ann. § 52-2-
3, or as it now exists or as it may hereinafter be amended.
2.07.130_ Political Activities Of Employees
A. Except as otherwise provided by law, Metro Township officers or employees may
voluntarily participate in political activity subject to the following provisions:

1. No person shall be denied the opportunity to become an applicant for a position
under the merit system in any covered department by virtue of political opinion or
affiliation.

2. No person employed by the Metro Township under the merit system may be
dismissed from service as a result of political opinion or affiliation.

3. A Metro Township career service employee may voluntarily contribute funds to
political groups and become a candidate for public office.

4. No Metro Township officer or employee, whether elected or appointed, may
directly or indirectly coerce, command, or advise any officer or employee covered
under the merit system to pay, lend, or contribute part of his or her salary or
compensation or anything else of value to any party, committee, organization,
agency, or person for political purposes. No Metro Township officer or employee,
whether elected or appointed, may attempt to make any officer's or employee's
personnel status dependent upon the officer's or employee's support or lack of
support for any political party, committee, organization, agency, or person
engaged in a political activity.

5. No officer or employee may engage in any political activity during the hours of
employment nor shall any person solicit political contributions from Metro
Township employees during hours of employment for political purposes, but
nothing in this section shall preclude voluntary contribution by a Metro Township
employee to the party or candidate of the employee's choice.

6. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to permit partisan political
activity by any Metro Township officer or employee who is prevented or restricted
from engaging in such political activity by the provisions of the federal Hatch Act.

B. Officers and employees, including employees covered by a merit system, may become
candidates for political office or for leadership positions in political parties. Officers and
employees doing so shall refrain from engaging in any political activities or
campaigning during Metro Township working hours. Officers and employees may take
an unpaid leave of absence in order to run for political office. Such a leave is at the

20

employee's discretion and may be for some or all of the time between filing a declaration
of candidacy and the end of the political campaign. No adverse employment action may
be taken against officers or employees who file for office or take a leave of absence.
2.07.140 Prohibitions On Political Use Of Metro Township Resources
No employee shall use any property or resources of the Metro Township, including but not
limited to time, other Metro Township employees, equipment, material, Metro Township Seal,
buildings or facilities in connection with any political activity, except in accordance with
established Metro Township policy regarding the acceptable use of public resources.
CHAPTER 2.08 -- ADMINISTRATIVE ORGANIZATION
2.08.010 Ordinance Requirements
A. The function of proposing, considering, reviewing, approving and enacting ordinances
is a legislative process which lies solely within the power, authority and discretion of
the Council pursuant to law. The Council may, at its discretion, provide for the limited
delegation of certain powers and activities to other committees, persons or entities to
assist in the preparation of proposed Metro Township ordinances. The legislative
committee is established to serve as an advisory body to assist the Council in the
consideration of Metro Township ordinances.

1. Upon review, approval and adoption by the Council, the proposed ordinance shall
be legally effective upon the date indicated in the ordinance and being signed by
the Mayor, attested by the Metro Township clerk/recorder, and posted or published
as required by State law.

2. Ordinances which in the opinion of the Council are necessary for the immediate
preservation of the peace, health or safety of the Metro Township and the
inhabitants thereof may, if so provided in the ordinance, take effect immediately
upon publication or posting as required by state law.

2.08.020 Policies and Procedures Defined
As used in this code, "Kearns Metro Township policy and procedure" means a written statement
formally adopted by the Council providing for the implementation of Council's ordinances,
powers and duties and Metro Township governance and administration.
2.08.030 Council Initiated Policies And Procedures
Whenever a policy or procedure is suggested by a majority of the Council, the Mayor shall refer
the matter for adoption in accordance with Section 2.04.160.

21

2.08.040 Policies And Procedures—Adoption
All policies and procedures adopted by the Council must bear the signatures of the Mayor and
recorder.
2.08.050 Policies And Procedures—Recordkeeping And Distribution
It shall be the responsibility of the Council to keep a current record of all Council-approved
policies and procedures.
2.08.060 Conflict Between Policies And State laws
Whenever a policy and procedure is in conflict with a state law or an ordinance of the Metro
Township, the statute supersedes the ordinance and the policy and procedure. An ordinance
supersedes a policy and procedure.
2.08.070 Discrimination Prohibited
Discrimination in Metro Township government services based on age, marital status, color,
disability, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, race or religion is prohibited.
Individuals shall be assured of equal access, opportunity and protection in all areas of Metro
Township government services. This section is not intended to expand the services of Metro
Township government beyond those required by state or federal law.
CHAPTER 2.09 - METRO TOWNSHIP LITIGATION
2.09.010 Litigation—Control And Direction
Any litigation involving or against the Metro Township is governed by the provisions of
applicable state or federal law and applicable case law precedents.
2.09.020—Legal Counsel
A. Any hiring of legal counsel in any litigation or any other matter involving the Metro
Township is with the consent and approval of the Council.
B. Processing and executing a contract for outside counsel is governed by Utah law and
the Metro Township’s purchasing policy as applicable.
2.09.030 Litigation Against the Metro Township
The legal authority of any Metro Township official, officer or employee, acting in an official
capacity, to engage in litigation against or on behalf of the Metro Township or against any Metro
Township official, officer or employee must be within that official's, officer's or employee's
express authority under state law or Metro Township ordinance. If the Metro Township official,
officer or employee has no such legal authority, Metro Township funds shall not be used to pay
22

attorneys’ fees or other legal costs, except in the following circumstances:
A. The use of Metro Township funds is approved in advance by the Mayor, Council, and
attorney; or
B. The litigation against the Metro Township or its officials, officers or employees
ultimately and substantially succeeds on the merits or payment is ordered by the court.
2.09.040 Limitations
A. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize any Metro Township official,
officer or employee to bring a lawsuit against the Metro Township.
B. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit the authority of a court of competent
jurisdiction from levying costs or attorneys’ fees in accordance with applicable law.
CHAPTER 2.10 (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 2.12 -METRO TOWNSHIP OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 2.24 — ESTABLISHING FEES
2.24.010 (RESERVED)
2.24.020 (RESERVED)
2.24.030 (RESERVED)
2.24.040 (RESERVED)
2.24.050 (RESERVED)
2.24.060 Fee Requirements And Limitations
The Metro Township may impose fees for providing government services in accordance with
the provisions of this ordinance and as may be required or permitted by law. Fees shall be
calculated and imposed in an amount that will reimburse the Metro Township for its expenses
in enforcing regulations or providing services or benefits and may not be imposed in an amount
which significantly exceeds those costs.
2.24.070 Fee Establishment Process
A. A fee shall be initiated by the Council.
B. In establishing the amount of a fee, costs and elements may be considered, including
but not limited to:
23

1. Metro Township and staff expenses, including full compensation costs of all
employees or contractors normally required to provide the services;

2. All direct costs:

a. For internal division costs, in accordance with accepted accounting
standards; and

b. For Metro Township indirect costs, in amounts established by the auditor's
office;

3. Any expenditures the Metro Township is required to make to other government
entities, private contractors or other third parties;

4. Reserves for liability, asset replacement, and capital improvements; and

5. Costs and materials of other direct operational expenses.

C. Fees shall be finally determined, approved and adopted by the Council.

D. Fees shall be posted and available to the public either electronically or by physical
posting at the Metro Township offices or work place.

E. Fees may be amended at times other than during budget approval by submitting a letter
requesting a fee amendment to the Council for its review and approval.

2.24.080 Metro Township Council Powers—Fees

A. The Council shall review and approve a schedule of all fees imposed by the Metro
Township.

B. The Council may waive or adjust fees, in accordance with the following standards and
procedures:

1. A fee imposed may be waived or adjusted by the Council unless that fee is
specifically established by ordinance or by state law or regulation. Fees established
by ordinance may only be waived by the Council and fees established by state law
may only be waived in accordance with state law.

2. Waiver shall be upon good cause shown and in the public interest. Any waiver
shall be in writing.

3. Fees such as late fees or service charges may also be waived, based on the
standards and processes established in this ordinance.

24

CHAPTER 2.39 (RESERVED)

CHAPTER 2.46 (RESERVED)

CHAPTER 2.56 - COMMUNITY COUNCILS

2.56.010 Purpose

The purpose of recognizing community councils is to provide a mechanism by which residents
of the Metro Township may identify community service needs and assist the Metro Township
in facilitating those initiatives. Volunteer community councils are an effective way for the Metro
Township to maximize on benefits of volunteer service for providing needed events and
programing to the residents of the Metro Township.

2.56.020 Establishment

Community councils are created by private citizens as private corporations or otherwise, and are
not created by the Metro Township. Privately created community councils may be recognized by
the Metro Township as provided in this chapter.

2.56.030 Community Councils — Representation

A. The citizens may choose to create community council for the purpose of serving the
Community and providing volunteer service. All members of community councils shall
serve without compensation. Vacancies on a community council shall be filled in
accordance with the community council’s bylaws. All community council meetings shall
be open to the public.

B. All community council bylaws, articles of incorporation, meetings, activities, elections,
and other functions shall abide by the minimum requirements of this chapter or the
community council will not be entitled to the various services, benefits, and status set out
herein.

2.56.040 Community Councils — Participation

The citizens may, by choice, decline to create a community council under the terms of this

chapter.

2.56.050Community Council Meetings

Community councils shall conduct open and public meetings and shall permit interested persons

to attend and participate in those meetings in accordance with applicable community council

bylaws and regulations.

2.56.060 Community Councils — Appointment of Members

Members of a community council shall be appointed or elected to the council as determined by
25

the community council’s bylaws.
2.56.070 Community Councils — Municipal Services Recommendation

A. The community council shall be encouraged to develop priorities regarding municipal
services and facilities. These recommendations should be communicated in writing to the
Council on an annual basis for use in policy development and in the budget process.
Community councils are encouraged to arrive at such recommendations pursuant to duly
held and well-publicized public meetings.

B. The Council may request municipal service providers and encourage elected officials and
appointed board members to provide key personnel on a requested basis as staff and
resource persons to the community council.

2.56.080 Community Councils — Planning and Zoning Information Sent to Community
Councils

A. The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District planning and development services
section, or contracted designee, shall submit to the chair and the designated planning and
zoning member of each community council copies of the planning commission public
meeting agendas, applications for changes to the zoning ordinance, general plan
amendments, or condition use applications pertaining to real property located within the
Metro Township.

B. The staff of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District planning and development
services section, or contracted designee, shall notify the community council on planning
and zoning matters, and the date and time of the planning commission meeting.

2.56.090 Budget

A. The Council may budget monies annually for the community councils, which will be
spent for administrative costs, including but not limited to, legal notices, elections,
newsletters, computers and software, other office equipment, dues to the Association of
Community Councils Together (ACCT), Metro Township-sponsored community events,
and community council outreach activities or events, postage, stationary, and duplication
costs. Funding will be provided pursuant to budgeted amounts and upon direction of the
Council.

B. Community councils receiving funds from the Metro Township shall establish a fiscal
year in their bylaws and make written budget requests, if any funding is requested, to the
Council by May 1* of each year unless otherwise agreed to by the Council. Within ninety
days following the close of the community council’s fiscal year, it shall file a detailed
financial statement with an identified Metro Township designee. The statement shall set
out community council revenues and expenditures for the prior year and shall be in a
form approved by the Council.

26

2.56.100_ Metro Township Council Participation

The Council shall schedule at least one meeting annually with the community councils for the
purposes of receiving recommendations on policy, budget, and other priorities.

2.56.110 Volunteer Status — Indemnification

Community council members shall be considered volunteers to the Metro Township and not
employees, officials, or officers of the Metro Township pursuant to the provisions of the Utah
Governmental Immunity Act, Utah Code Ann. § 63G-7-101, et seq., in any civil action that may
arise within the course and scope of the performance of their duties under this chapter.
CHAPTER 2.70 — QUASI-JUDICIAL FUNCTIONS STANDARDS OF CONDUCT
2.70.010 Purpose

The Council recognizes the importance of guaranteeing both the reality and perception that all
individuals appearing before quasi-judicial officials or bodies in Metro Township are afforded a
full, fair and impartial hearing on the merits. The Council finds it in the best interests of the
citizens of Metro Township to provide uniform standards of conduct for all members of quasi-
judicial bodies. To that end, the Council hereby provides uniform standards of conduct for
individuals performing quasi-judicial functions in the Metro Township.

2.70.020 Definitions

For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings
respectively described to them below:

A "conflict of interest" exists when:

A. A quasi-judicial official has a direct or indirect financial interest which will be or is
reasonably likely to be affected by the outcome of the matter currently pending before
the official; or Resolution of the matter before the official will or is reasonably likely to
create a material personal gain or provide a gain or advantage to relatives, friends,
agents, business associates, or to groups and associations which hold some share of the
official's loyalty. Membership in a group or association alone shall not be considered a
conflict of interest with respect to any matter affecting such group or association unless
a reasonable and informed person would conclude that such membership in itself would
prevent an objective quasi-judicial consideration of the matter.

B. "Ex-parte contact or communication" means contact by one side only of a matter before
an individual, board or council when said individual, board or council is acting in a
quasi-judicial capacity and the contact is outside of the hearing or official proceedings
in the matter.

C. "Interested party" in a quasi-judicial proceeding means any applicant, party,
representative or agent of an applicant or party, any person or entity who may claim to

27

be adversely affected by the resolution of a matter or any issue of fact or law related to
a matter, and any person or entity who claims a substantial property interest which could
be adversely affected by the resolution of a matter or an issue of fact or law related to a
matter.

D. "Legislative capacity" means activity by a board or council when involved with the
framing and enactment of ordinances and policies for the Metro Township included
without limitation in such category is the adoption of or amendment to the code of
ordinances, policies and procedures or administrative rules of the Metro Township.

E. "Quasi-judicial capacity" means the role of an individual, board, or council acting to
investigate facts and draw conclusions therefrom as a basis for its official actions and
the exercise of discretion of a judicial nature is a matter which is currently before the
individual, board or council, or which would come under the individual's, board's or
council's jurisdiction pursuant to an appeal of an administrative determination including
the Council. In determining whether the individual or entity is quasi-judicial in nature,
the nature of the activity engaged in shall control over the title of the individual or entity
or the other duties assigned to or otherwise engaged in by the individual or entity.

2.70.030 Conflict Of Interest

A. Any official acting in a quasi-judicial capacity with or reasonably likely to have a
conflict of interest with regard to an applicant or its agent who has a matter before the
official, must declare his or her conflict of interest and the nature of the interest giving
rise to the conflict publicly prior to discussion of the matter and enter the same upon the
record of the proceeding. The official must abstain from deliberating or voting on the
matter and may not discuss the matter either publicly or privately with any other official
participating in the proceeding. The vote of an official experiencing a conflict of interest
who fails to disqualify himself shall be disallowed.

B. A conflict of interest may exist under this section although an official may not believe
that an actual conflict exists. Therefore, any official who has a question as to whether a
conflict of interest exists under this section with respect to his or her participation or the
participation of another official participating in the proceeding should raise the matter
with the other officials participating in the proceeding at a public meeting and with the
attorney's office in order that a determination may be made as to whether a conflict of
interest exists.

2.70.040 Gifts And Favors

No quasi-judicial official, relative or agent of a quasi-judicial official shall accept any gift, favor
or advantage from any party, individual, or from their agents or representatives if the party or
individual has a matter currently before the quasi-judicial body or in circumstances when the
quasi-judicial official has knowledge that said party or individual intends to or commonly brings
matters before the quasi-judicial official for adjudication. Gifts, favors or advantages shall not
include a meal with a value of less than twenty-five dollars provided in conjunction with a

28

meeting at which the subject of a quasi-judicial proceeding is discussed. The meal and the
communication shall be disclosed pursuant to Section 2.70.050(B). Campaign contributions
shall be subject to all other provisions of applicable law but shall not be prohibited under this
section.

2.70.050 Ex-Parte Communication

A. No quasi-judicial official shall initiate contact or initiate discussion with any party or
the representative or agent of any party or a person who may claim to be "adversely
affected" by the resolution of the matter with respect to an issue of law or fact in issue
on a matter which is either currently before the quasi-judicial official for adjudication
or which is reasonably likely to come before the quasi-judicial official unless the official
provides notice to all parties and an opportunity to participate. Any such discussion,
after notice and with an opportunity for participation by the public or other affected
parties, shall occur in a meeting duly convened and noticed pursuant to the Utah Open
Meetings Act and shall be made a matter of the official record of the proceeding.

B. Any quasi-judicial official who receives an ex-parte communication with respect to a
matter which is either currently before the official or reasonably likely to come before
the official shall, at the next public meeting following the communication, place into
the official minutes or record the following:

1. The name of the party making the communication;

2. Ifthe communication was in writing, a copy of the communication;

3. Ifthe communication was oral, a summary of the communication;

4. The date of the communication.
Following disclosure of the communication at the hearing on the matter, the
public and opposing parties shall be given an opportunity to submit written
responses to the communication prior to the quasi-judicial official or entity
closing the evidentiary phase of the proceedings. All ex-parte communication,
with the exception of discussions of procedural matters such as the dates and
times of hearings, is prohibited after the conclusion of the evidentiary phase of
the proceedings.
Engaging in prohibited ex-parte communications or the failure of a quasi-
judicial official to disclose a communication and place the communication or a
summary of it in the public record shall be grounds for voiding the official's
vote on the matter.

C. An ex-parte contact or communication does not include:

1. Discussions of procedural matters such as the dates and times of hearings which
29

are unrelated to the merits of the appeal, proceeding or motion;

2. Communications by the quasi-judicial official, whether in person or otherwise,
with administrative staff who do not constitute representatives of a party to the
proceeding, Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District attorney staff not
representing a party to the proceeding, or Council staff.

2.70.060 Other Provisions Applicable

The standards of conduct provided for by this chapter are in addition to other legal requirements
imposed on quasi-judicial officials and bodies of the Metro Township including the Municipal
Officers and Employees Ethics Act, the Governments Records Access and Management Act, the
Open and Public Meetings Act and Metro Township ordinances and policies applicable
specifically to the quasi-judicial body.

CHAPTER 2.74 (RESERVED)

CHAPTER 2.75A (RESERVED)

CHAPTER 2.81 — SECURITY OF PERSONAL IDENTIFIERS

2.81.010 Definitions

A. As used in this chapter, "individual" refers to any natural person including Metro
Township clients and patrons; members of the public; and Metro Township officers,
employees and volunteers,

B. As used in this chapter, "personal identifiers" means and includes an individual's home
address, home telephone number, personal cellular telephone number, signature, social
security number, birth date, personal email address, driver's license number, passport
number, and any financial identification numbers, including, but not limited to, bank
account numbers, credit card numbers and information obtained to authenticate a
cardholder or effectuate a payment card transaction.

2.81.020 Protecting Personal Identifiers

The Metro Township shall ensure that all personal identifiers in the Metro Township's control
are kept confidential and secure and are not used for any purpose other than a bona fide
government necessity.

A. The Metro Township shall not collect or maintain personal identifiers except where
provided by law or ordinance, or where necessary to the functioning of the Metro
Township. The collection of credit card numbers is permitted for those agencies which
accept payment, in the regular course of Metro Township business, by credit card.

B. Any Metro Township agency which collects, maintains or transmits personal identifiers

30

shall make a formal determination, in writing, which explains why personal identifiers
are collected, maintained or transmitted and explains which specific personal identifiers
are necessary. Agencies shall collect or use only those specific personal identifiers
which are necessary to government business.

C. Except for outside contractors that provide administrative services for the Metro
Township, each Metro Township agency shall have in place a written regulation or
policy which establishes procedures for the secure collection, maintenance,
transmission, transfer, or disposal of personal identifiers.

D. Metro Township agencies are bound by the provisions of state and federal law regarding
the public or confidential nature of records containing personal identifiers, including but
not limited to the Utah Governmental Records Access and Management Act (GRAMA)
and the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996.

2.81.030 Private Contractors

If Metro Township contracts with a private entity and the contract contemplates or provides for

the transmission or use of any individual's personal identifiers, the contract shall include

mandatory provisions requiring that the contractor exercise care to ensure the protection of

personal identifiers and that the contractor shall be legally liable for any breach of that duty.
2.81.040 Penalty

Any Metro Township officer or employee who knowingly violates this chapter may be guilty

of a Class B misdemeanor and shall be subject to appropriate disciplinary action.

CHAPTER 2.82 RECORDS MANAGEMENT (RESERVED)

2.82.010 Government Records Findings--Recognition Of Public Policy

The Council finds the following:

A. It is in the best interests of the Metro Township and the citizens thereof, and essential
for the administration of the Metro Township government, to maintain and preserve
accurate governmental records; to provide ready access to records which are defined by
law as open to the public; to maintain the security of records which are defined by law
as nonpublic; and to ensure the preservation of vital and historically valuable records.

B. As the records of the Metro Township are a resource containing information which (1)
allows government programs to function; (2) provides officials with a basis for making
decisions and ensuring continuity with past operations; and (3) permits citizens to
research and document matters of personal and community importance; this resource
must be systematically and efficiently managed.

C. It is the policy of the Metro Township that all governmental records, which are defined

31

by applicable Utah statutory and case law as public records, shall be made available to
citizens as set forth in this chapter.

D. The Metro Township recognizes a public policy interest in allowing the government to
restrict access to certain records, as specified in the Act and this chapter, for the public
good.

2.82.020 Purpose And Intent

In enacting this chapter, it is the purpose and intent of the Council to provide, in accordance with
the Government Records Access and Management Act (hereinafter referred to as "the Act"),
Chapter 2 of Title 63G of the Utah Code Annotated, an ordinance acknowledging and complying
with the Act and providing for its application in the Metro Township.

2.82.030 Public Access

A. Members of the public shall have the right to see, review, examine and take copies, in
any format maintained by the Metro Township and subject to Section 2.82.170 hereof,
of all Metro Township governmental records designated as "public" under the
provisions of this chapter, and of the Act and policies and procedures developed
hereunder.

B. The Metro Township has no obligation to create a record or record series in response to
a request from a member of the public, if the record requested is not otherwise regularly
maintained or kept.

C. When a record is temporarily held by a custodial Metro Township agency, pursuant to
that custodial agency's statutory and ordinance functions, such as records storage,
investigation, litigation or audit, the record shall not be considered a record of the
custodial agency for the purpose of this chapter. The record shall be considered a record
of the agency or agencies which usually keeps or maintains that record and any requests
for access to such records shall be directed to that agency or agencies, rather than the
custodial agency, pursuant to procedures established by the Metro Township. Only
when records have been formally filed for permanent archival retention shall Metro
Township archives be responsible for responding to requests for another agency's
records.

2.82.040 Appeals

1. Persons aggrieved by the Metro Township's classification of a record, the fees
charged for a record, or by a response to a record request may request and be
granted an initial administrative appeal of that grievance, in accordance with
Metro Township policies and procedures adopted by the Council. The initial
administrative appeal is made to the Mayor.

2. A written notice of appeal shall be filed with the Mayor within thirty calendar days

32

after notice of the date of the action has been sent. The notice of appeal shall state
the basis of the appeal and the relief requested.
3. Unless otherwise stipulated by the Metro Township and the persons aggrieved, the
Mayor shall have seven calendar days after the Mayor's receipt of the notice of
appeal (or fourteen calendar days after the Metro Township sends a notice of
appeal to a person who submitted a claim of business confidentiality) to respond
to the record request.
4, The Mayor shall hear an appeal using a reasonable process chosen within the
Mayor's discretion and issue decision in writing to appellant.
5. Ifthe Mayor affirms the access denial, or fails to respond to the records request
within the time limits listed above, the person aggrieved may then appeal the
decision to affirm the access denial to the State Records Committee or may a
petition for judicial review with district court.
2.82.050 Amendments And Corrections
Records held by the Metro Township may be amended or corrected as needed and as authorized
by law. Requests for amendments, corrections or other changes shall be made in writing setting
forth, with specificity, the amendment or correction requested and the reason for the change.
When an amendment or correction of a government record is made, generally both the original
record and the amended or corrected record shall be retained, unless the nature of the record
indicates otherwise or as may be provided by policies and procedures adopted under the
provisions of this chapter.
2.82.060 Access Management And Archiving

A. There shall be designated a Metro Township records manager to oversee and coordinate
records access and management and Metro Township archives activities. The records
manager shall make annual reports of records services activities to the Council.

B. The records manager shall develop and provide records management, maintenance and
access standards, policies and procedures, as approved by the Council to govern and
implement the provisions of the Act and this chapter. Approval and promulgation of
records policies and procedures shal] be in accordance with the provisions of this code
of ordinances and the Act. Copies of any rule or policy promulgated under this chapter
shall be forwarded by the Metro Township record manager to the Utah State Division
of Archives within thirty days after its effective date.

2.82.070 Custody And Control

A. Records maintenance procedures shall be developed to ensure that due care is taken to
maintain and preserve the Metro Township records safely and accurately over the long
term. The records manager shall be responsible for monitoring the application and use

33

of technical processes in the creation, duplication, and disposal of the Metro Township
records and shall monitor compliance with required standards of quality, permanence,
and admissibility pertaining to the creation, use and maintenance of records. Metro
Township policies and regulations regarding types and formats of papers, inks,
electronic media, and other records and information storage media, materials,
equipment, procedures and techniques shall be developed and promulgated, subject to
the approval of the Council.

B. All Metro Township records which constitute an intellectual property right shall remain
the property of the Metro Township unless federal or state legal authority provides
otherwise. All other records shall be the property of the state. Property rights to Metro
Township records may not be permanently transferred from the Metro Township to any
private individual or entity, including those legally disposable obsolete Metro Township
records of Metro Township archives or other agencies. This prohibition does not include
the providing of record copies for release or distribution under this chapter. All records
disposals shall be conducted in accordance with policies and procedures.

C. Any Metro Township officer or employee having custody or control of any Metro
Township records shall, at the expiration of their terms of office, appointment or
employment, deliver custody and control of all records kept or received by them to their
successors, supervisors, or to the Metro Township records manager.

2.82.080 Retention Scheduling

A. All Metro Township records as defined by the Act, whether hard copy, electronic or
otherwise, shall be scheduled for retention and retained based on the standards and
requirements set out in the Act and this ordinance.

B. The responsibility for developing retention schedules shall reside with the Council, with
the assistance and advice of the Metro Township records manager.

C. In scheduling records for retention, the following considerations shall be taken into
account:

1. Any specific retention requirement established by law, statute or ordinance;

2. Reasonable records standards and needs, based on best business practices,
retention storage capabilities, and particular industry or professional requirements
or standards;

3. Legal needs, including pending or likely litigation;

4. Applicable statutes of limitation;

5. Any pending fiscal or performance audit process;

34

6. Administrative and policy needs; and
7. Historical value.

D. Based on the considerations in subparagraph C, a record may have an extremely limited
retention schedule, permitting the deletion of a record immediately or after
administrative need ceases. Such records may be deleted immediately and without
further processing.

E. Metro Township officials, employees, and contractors shall observe and adhere to all
applicable retention schedules. Records which have reached the end of their retention
schedules should be deleted, removed or destroyed in a timely manner.

CHAPTER 2.86 EMERGENCY RESPONSE AND RECOVERY

2.86.010 Intent—Liberal Construction

It is the intent of this chapter to provide the organization, powers and authority necessary to
enable the timely and effective use of all available Metro Township resources to prepare for,
respond to and recover from emergencies and disasters likely to affect the health, security, safety,
or property of the inhabitants of the Metro Township. It is intended to grant the broadest powers
permitted. The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed to allow for the greatest
opportunity to preserve and protect life and property.

2.86.020 Definitions

As used in this chapter:

"Attack" means a nuclear, conventional, biological, or chemical warfare action against the
United States of America, the State of Utah, Salt Lake County, or the Metro Township.
"Disaster" or "emergency" means a situation causing or threatening to cause widespread damage,
injury or loss of life, or significant property damage resulting from an attack, internal
disturbance, natural phenomena, public health emergency, or technological hazard.

"Internal disturbance" means a riot, prison break, disruptive terrorism, or a widespread strike,
which strike causes significant social disruption or injury to persons or property.

"Natural phenomena" means any earthquake, tornado, storm, flood landslide, avalanche, forest
or range fire, drought or epidemic.

"Public health emergency" means an occurrence or imminent credible threat of an illness or
health condition caused by bioterrorism, epidemic or pandemic disease, or novel and highly
infectious agent or biological toxin, that poses a substantial risk of a significant number of human
fatalities or incidents of permanent or long-term disability. Such illness or health condition
includes an illness or health condition resulting from a natural disaster Utah Code § 26-23b-

35

102(b).

"State of emergency" means a condition in the Metro Township which requires Metro Township
government emergency assistance to save lives and to protect property, public health and safety,
and to reduce the threat and effects of a disaster.

"Technological hazard" means any hazardous materials spill or accident, mining accident, train
derailment, aircraft crash, radiation incident, pollution, structural fire or explosion.

2.86.030 Declaration Of An Emergency

A. The Mayor is authorized to declare a state of emergency when the Mayor finds that the
Metro Township or any part thereof is suffering from or is in imminent danger of
suffering an emergency or disaster.

B. Any declaration of an emergency or disaster by the Mayor shall be promptly filed with
the Metro Township clerk/recorder, and the public shall be notified through general
publicity of the declaration. The Mayor shall promptly notify the Council of any
declaration of an emergency or disaster.

C. The declaration of an emergency or disaster shall be in effect as determined by the
Mayor for a period of up to thirty days in accordance with the Utah Disaster Response
and Recovery Act, Utah Code § 63-5a-6. This period may be continued or renewed only
upon the approval of the Council. The Council may, by resolution, express its opinion
regarding an emergency declaration by the Mayor.

D. The declaration of an emergency provided in this chapter shall become effective
immediately upon issuance by the Mayor and the only required publication is the general
dissemination to the public by appropriate news media.

E. The declaration shall, to the extent possible, state the nature of the emergency, the area
threatened, and any applicable duration, conditions, actions or needs pursuant to
Section 2.86.050. The declaration may be amended and periodically brought up to date
as needed.

2.86.040 Succession

A. Ifthe Mayor is unavailable to perform the duties set out herein, the vice-chair shall have
the same authority as granted to the Mayor. If both the Mayor and vice-chair are
unavailable, the authority to exercise the powers set out in this chapter vests in the fire
official assigned to the Metro Township by the Unified Fire Authority.

B. Notwithstanding the order of succession set forth in subsection A, if the Mayor is
unavailable to issue an evacuation order as set forth in Section 2.86.050, only the fire
official assigned to the Metro Township by the Unified Fire Authority may issue an
evacuation order, including any orders establishing evacuation routes, for a period not

36

to exceed thirty-six hours, if the order is necessary for the preservation of life. The
Mayor may ratify, modify, or revoke the fire official's order if he becomes available.
2.86.050 Powers Of The Mayor

A. In a state of emergency, declared by either the Mayor or the governor, the Mayor is
empowered to make all necessary efforts to respond to, prevent, or ameliorate the effects
of an emergency or disaster, including, but not limited to, using all Metro Township
resources, issuing evacuation orders, establishing evacuation routes, suspending the sale
of alcoholic beverages, controlling entry to and exit from any disaster area, clearing or
removing debris or wreckage, invoking the provisions of any mutual aid agreement with
another governmental entity, and such other powers and authority which are reasonably
necessary for the preservation of life and property and as may be set out the Utah
Disaster Response and Recovery Act, Utah Code § 63-5a-4.

1. The Mayor shall have full power to secure the availability of supplies, clothing,
vehicles, fuel, equipment, food and water as may be reasonably necessary to
respond to the emergency.

B. In the state of emergency, the Mayor may exercise emergency powers and functions in
response to the exigencies of the disaster, including waiving compliance with any time
consuming procedures and formalities, including notices, as may otherwise be required.

C. Ina state of emergency, the Mayor may issue any and all such other orders or undertake
such other functions and activities as the Mayor reasonably believes is required to
protect the health, safety, or welfare of persons or property within the Metro Township
or to otherwise preserve the public peace or to abate, clean up, or mitigate the effects of
any emergency or disaster. Rules and regulations adopted by the Mayor in response to
the state of emergency have the force and effect of law, upon filing with the Metro
Township clerk. All rules and regulations adopted in response to a state of emergency
shall expire once the state of emergency is no longer in effect.

D. Ina state of emergency, the Mayor is responsible to:

1. Coordinate the activities and management of private volunteers, including
maintaining records of volunteer work in accordance with Federal Emergency
Management Agency (FEMA) needs;

2. Ensure that all records and receipts for funds expended in emergency response are
maintained in accordance with FEMA needs;

3. Coordinate and ensure prompt communication with the media about the
emergency, providing to the extent possible, one consistent voice regarding Metro
Township activities;

37

4, Maintain ongoing communication with the Council, the Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District, the Unified Fire Authority, and other government
entities.

E. In the event of a public health emergency, the Mayor may declare a state of emergency
at the request of the director of the health department or the board of health. To prevent
or contain the outbreak and spread of a communicable or infectious disease, the Mayor,
together with the director of the health department, may issue orders to:

1. Close theaters, schools and other public places and prohibit gatherings of people
when necessary to protect the public health. (Utah Code § 26A-1-114(1)(e));

2. Exercise physical contro] over property and over individuals as the Health
Department finds necessary for the protection of public health. (Utah Code § 26A-
1-114(1)(b));

3. Exclude from school attendance any person, including teachers, who is suffering
from any communicable or infectious disease, if the person is likely to convey the
disease to those in attendance. (Utah Code § 26A-1-114(3)(b));

4. The authority of the director of the health department extends to a public health
emergency wholly located within a municipality.

F. The Unified Police's office and such other law enforcement and peace officers as may
be authorized by the Mayor are further authorized and directed to enforce the orders,
rules and regulations made or issued pursuant to this chapter.

1. During the period of a declared emergency or disaster, a person shall not:

a. Enter or remain upon the premises of any establishment not open for
business to the general public, unless such person is the owner or
authorized agent of the establishment;

b. Violate any orders duly issued by the Mayor or authorized personnel; or

c. Willfully obstruct, hinder, or delay any duly authorized government
officers, employees or volunteers in the enforcement or exercise of the
provisions of this chapter, or in the undertaking of any activity pursuant to
this chapter.

2.86.060 Powers Of The Council

A. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the Council from acting as the legislative body of
Metro Township government in a state of emergency, or from exercising those powers
and authorities set out in state law. The Council's legislative authority shall include the

38

power to legislate, budget, and appropriate and to perform any other duties as required
by state law and by the plan.

B. The Council shall also fulfill those duties and responsibilities as required by any
emergency response declaration or order to the extent it does not conflict with federal,
state, or local law, or the provisions of this chapter.

2.86.070 Relocation Of Offices

A. Whenever an emergency or disaster makes it imprudent or impossible to conduct the
affairs of the Metro Township at its regular locations, the Council may meet at any safe
and convenient place, inside or outside the County. Any temporary meeting location
shall continue until a new location is established, the emergency or disaster is
terminated, or Metro Township operations are able to return to their normal locations.

B. Any official act or meeting required to be performed at any regular location of the
Council is valid when performed at any temporary location under the terms of this
section.

2.86.080 Mutual Aid

A. The Mayor may, on behalf ofthe Metro Township, enter into such reciprocal aid, mutual
aid, intergovernmental cooperation agreements or other contracts or plans with other
governmental entities for the protection of life and property. Such agreements may
include the furnishing or exchange of supplies, equipment, facilities, personnel and
services and do not require fair and adequate consideration.

B. The Metro Township may act as a participating political subdivision consistent with the
Statewide Mutual Aid Act, Utah Code § 53-2-401 et seq.

2.86.090 Contracts For Goods And Services During An Emergency

A. In accordance with the provisions of the Metro Township procurement ordinances or
policies, the Metro Township may acquire goods and services in response to the
exigencies of the emergency or disaster as are necessary and the Mayor may suspend or
waive compliance with time consuming ordinances, policies, procedures and formalities
prescribed by law pertaining thereto, Metro Township purchasing ordinances regarding
the acquisition of goods and services.

2.86.100 Criminal Penalties
Any person who knowingly refuses to comply with an order to evacuate issued under this chapter
or who refuses to comply with any other order issued during a state of emergency, as provided
in this chapter and after notice of the order has been given to that person, is guilty of a Class B
Misdemeanor.

39

2.86.110 Emergency Management Advisory Committee (RESERVED)
2.86.120 Severability
The provisions of this chapter are declared to be severable, and if any provision of this chapter
shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or unconstitutional or if the application of this chapter
to any person or circumstance is held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such holding shall not
affect the validity of the remaining provisions of the ordinance codified in this chapter.
CHAPTER 2.95 METRO TOWNSHIP BUDGET PROCESS
2.95.010 Provisions
This chapter shall define the process of preparing and adopting the annual fiscal year of the
Metro Township’s budget. The chapter further defines the Council's responsibilities, and the the
Metro Township's relationship with the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District and
County, as applicable, in the budget process as defined by law.
2.95.020 Definitions
"Final budget" means the budget finally adopted by the Council pursuant to its legislative
authority.
"Proposed budget" means the budget prepared in the format of the tentative budget by the
Council and forwarded to the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District Board of Trustees
for review and approval.
"Tentative budget" means the budget approved by the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District after submittal of the proposed budget by the Council to the Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District.
2.95.030 Authority
This chapter is based upon the requirements of state law regarding the administration and
operation of the Metro Township, the responsibilities of the County and the Greater Salt Lake
Municipal Services District in the Metro Townships, and the Uniform Fiscal Procedures Act for
Cities ("the Act").
2.95.040 Tentative Budget
A. The Council shall prepare and submit to the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services
District a proposed budget in sufficient detail, content and scope and in a manner and
on forms provided by the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District pursuant to the
act. The Council shall submit the proposed budget to the Greater Salt Lake Municipal
Services District by October 1. The time of submittal of the proposed budget may be
40
