KEARNS CITY COUNCIL
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-06-03! DATE: June 10, 2024
AN ORDINANCE OF THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL
AMENDING MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS IN SUBDIVISION
AND ZONING ORDINANCES (TITLES 18 AND 19)
RECITALS

WHEREAS, the City of Kearns adopted a zoning ordinance pursuant to Utah
Code Ann. Subsection 10-9a-102(2) and has authority to amend said zoning ordinance
when it determines it is necessary; and

WHEREAS, the City of Kearns is a municipality and has authority to regulate

land use standards in general pursuant to Utah Code Ann. Subsection 10-9a-104 (1);
and

WHEREAS, the Council deems it necessary to amend its ordinances in order to

improve land use ordinance usability, responsiveness to community needs, and
compliance with Utah State Code.

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE KEARNS CITY COUNCIL AS
FOLLOWS:

l. Titles 18 and 19 are amended and read as attached hereto as Attachments 1
and 2.

2. Severability. If a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any part
of this Ordinance is unconstitutional or invalid, then such portion of this Ordinance, or
specific application of this Ordinance, shall be severed from the remainder, which shall
continue in full force and effect.

3. Effective Date. This Ordinance will take effect immediately upon posting
and publication as required by law.

[Execution on following page]
' File No. OAM2024-00140

ADOPTED AND APPROVED at a duly called meeting of the Kearns City Council on
this 10 day of June 2024.
CITY OF KEARNS
By: aay Mayor
ATTEST: APPROVED AS TO FORM:
City Recorder City Attorney
Voting:
Council Member Bush voting ~,
Council Member Butterfield voting
Council Member Peterson voting ra
Council Member Schaeffer voting Ky
Council Member Snow voting SS
(Complete as Applicable)
Date ordinance summary was published on the Utah Public Notice Website per Utah Code
§10-3-711: 1,
Effective date of ordinance:

SUMMARY OF
KEARNS CITY
ORDINANCE NO. 2024-06-03
On June 10, 2024, the Kearns City Council enacted Ordinance No. 2024-06-03,
amending Titles 18 and 19 of Kearns Municipal Code to remove references to “Kearns
Metro Township”, update the definition of “Bed and Breakfasts”, clarify standards
related to Storage and Salvage Yards, and remove inconsistencies in setback standards
related to PUDs.
KEARNS CITY COUNCIL
By: re Mayor
ATTEST: APPROVED AS TO FORM:
/ 4
AA YY a
City Recorder City Attorney
Voting:
Council Member Bush voting x
Council Member Butterfield voting
Council Member Peterson voting 4
Council Member Schaeffer voting SS
Council Member Snow voting DB
A complete copy of Ordinance No. 2024-06-03 is available in the office of the Greater Salt
Lake Municipal Services District, 2001 South State Street, N3-600, Salt Lake City, Utah.

Attachment 1

Title 18 Miscellaneous Changes

The following amendments to Kearns Municipal Code Title 18 are proposed. Standards in Title 18 that

are not presented in this document will not be effected by the proposed amendments.

18.04.040 Development Agreements

A. The developer/property owner and the municipality may choose to enter into a development
agreement that outlines the duties, responsibilities, obligations, commitments and promises of the
developer/property owner and the commitments of the municipality.

B. Adevelopment agreement does not exempt a developer/property owner from complying with this
Title or any part of the Development Code unless such an exemption is clearly contained within the
executed development agreement and the Council has approved the development agreement after
the planning commission has held a public hearing and provided a recommendation.

C. Ifadevelopment agreement restricts an applicant ‘s rights under clearly established state law, the
municipality shall disclose in writing to the applicant the rights of the applicant the development
agreement restricts.

| 1. It is the policy of Kearas Metre tewnshipthe City of Kearns that if the municipality fails to
disclose a restricted right in accordance with State Code, the entirety of the development
agreement shall be considered null and void. The developer and municipality may choose to
enter into a new agreement.

D. The development agreement shall be recorded by the municipality in the Salt Lake County
Recorder’s Office. Recordation by the municipality may only take place after all of the necessary
signatures are obtained, all approvals given, and all bonds and fees posted. The development

| agreement must be recorded prior to the recording of the final plat. The KearasMetreCity of Kearns
Council may approve a development agreement as a legislative action. Consideration of a
development agreement is separate from any consideration of a preliminary or final subdivision
application or plat.

E. Any development agreement entered into by a developer/property owner and Kearas-Metro
Fewanshipthe City of Kearns shall comply with the provisions identified in Utah Code §10-9a-532.

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 1 | Page 1 of 5

18.10.040 Final Plat Required Information

The final plat shall be prepared by a professional land surveyor licensed in Utah on a sheet of approved
reproducible Mylar and made with approved waterproof black ink. The plat shall be oriented so that the
top of the sheet is either north or east, whichever accommodates the drawing best. All text shall be a
minimum of one-tenth inch in size. The plat shall contain all information required on the preliminary plat
with the exception of contours and construction information, utilities (except existing and proposed fire
hydrants), structures and fences (unless called monuments).

A. Description and Delineation. The final plat shall show:

1. The approved name of the subdivision;

2. North arrow and graphic scale. The minimum scale is 1 “=100 ‘;

3. A legend defining all lines and symbols used on the plat;

4. Lot addresses, and approved street names and numbers;

5. The plat drawing shall agree with the boundary description;

6. Accurate angular and lineal dimensions for all lines, angles and curves used to describe
boundaries, streets, alleys, easements, areas to be reserved for public use and other important
features. Boundaries, lots and streets shown as solid lines, with outside subdivision boundary
lines indicated as a heavier, more substantial line than lot, street and easement lines. Easements
shown as dashed lines;

7. The lengths of lot lines and boundary lines shown as decimals of a foot with a precision of 0.00‘;
Bearings and angles will be shown as Deg/Min/Sec with a precision of 0°00 ‘00 “. Additional
precision may be necessary to meet closure requirements;

8. Bearings and distance to provide a mathematical closure of 0.01 ‘ on exterior subdivision
boundary and 0.02 ‘ or less, on all lots and centerline of streets;

9. Basis of bearing between two or more public land survey monuments or between identified
monuments in a recorded subdivision or street dedication plat;

10. Survey ties to public land survey monuments, and where applicable, to identified monuments in
a recorded subdivision or street dedication plat, showing measured and record, if different;

11. The accurate location of all survey monuments and fire hydrants to be installed shown by the
appropriate symbol. All United States, state, county or other official benchmarks, survey
monuments or triangulation stations in or adjacent to the property, shall be preserved in precise
position and in compliance with Utah Code, §17-23-14 and Salt Lake County Ordinance, Chapter
14.17;

12. The clearly labeled point of beginning;

13. The sum of the lot distances along the exterior of the plat shall equal the subdivision boundary
distance;

14. Existing and proposed streets within two-hundred feet (200 ‘) of the proposed subdivision
boundary. Dimension street width and identified street ownership;

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 1 | Page 2 of 5

15. Recording information of adjoining subdivisions. Ownership with parcel identification
numbers of adjoining lots and parcels;

16. The dimensioned relationship between existing and proposed utility easements with proposed
lot lines. Include recording reference(s) of existing easements and provide a utility approval line
for proposed easements;

17. All curve data, including radii, internal angles, points and curvatures, tangent bearings and
length of all arcs, identified at correct location or in a curve table;

18. Centerline control on existing streets, matching the County ‘s record data. New street
monuments will be installed per the Salt Lake County Surveyor ‘s monument permitting process
as specified in Salt Lake County Ordinance, Chapter 14-17;

19. The dedication to the municipality of all streets and highways included in the proposed
subdivision. Where it is proposed that streets be constructed on property controlled by a public
agent or utility company, approval for the location, improvement and maintenance of such
streets shall be obtained from the public agency or utility company and entered on the final plat
in a form approved by the municipal attorney;

20. Subdivision monuments shall be installed prior to the improvement bond release by the
subdivider ‘s engineer or land surveyor at such points designated on the final plat as approved
by Planning and Development Services. Standard precast monuments, rings and lids shall be
installed through the Salt Lake County Surveyor monument permitting process (Salt Lake County
Ordinance, Chapter 14.17);

21. Physical markers shall be placed at each outside boundary corner, in accordance with state
statutes and industry standards; and verified to be in their correct location(s) according to the
plat;

22. Physical markers shall be placed at each lot corner in accordance with state statutes and
industry standards; and

23. Accurate outlines and lega! descriptions of any areas to be dedicated or reserved for public use,
with the purposes indicated thereon, and of any area to be reserved by deed or covenant for
common uses of all property owners.

B. Boundary Description. The boundary description shall include:

1. Acaption with reference to current vesting deed(s), location by Quarter Section, Township &
Range, Base & Meridian, and if applicable, existing lot(s) and subdivision(s);

2. Asurvey tie to an existing Public Land Survey monument, or a recognized street or

3. Subdivision monument;

4. Allnecessary bearings, distances and curve data to complete the description and provide a
mathematical closure of 0.01 ‘ (one hundredth) of a foot or less;

5. Narrative (bound) calls to and along adjoining subdivisions, parcels, streets, and rights of way as
necessary to define the intent of the description;

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 1 | Page 3 of 5

6. Recording reference to any additional easements required for property access where applicable;
and

7. Total development area in square feet (0.00) and acres (0.000).

| C. Standard Forms for the Following. Kearas-MetrotewnshipThe City of Kearns may adopt a template

establishing the expected format of the final plat, which shall at a minimum require:

1. A Professional Land Surveyor ‘s certificate of survey;

2. The owner ‘s certificate of dedication;

3. Anotary public ‘s acknowledgement;

4. The land use authority ‘s certificate of approval;

5. The health department ‘s certificate of approval;

6. Planning and Development Service ‘s certificate of approval;

7. The municipal attorney ‘s certificate of approval;

8. The municipal mayor ‘s certificate of approval, witnessed by the municipal clerk / recorder;

9. The County Surveyor ‘s record of survey acknowledgment block; and

10. A one and one-half by five-inch (1.5” x 5”) space in the lower right-hand corner of the drawing
for the Salt Lake County Recorder ‘s use.

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 1 | Page 4 of 5

18.18.050 Petition To Vacate A Public Street

A. Inlieu of vacating some or all of a public street through a plat or amended plat in accordance with
Utah Code, a legislative body may approve a petition to vacate a public street in accordance with
this Section.

B. Application. A petition to vacate some or all of a public street or municipal utility easement shall
include:

1. The name and address of each owner of record of land that is:

a. Adjacent to the public street or municipal utility easement between the two nearest public
street intersections; or

b. Accessed exclusively by or within three hundred feet (300 ‘) of the public street or municipal
utility easement.

2. Proof of written notice to operators of utilities and culinary water or sanitary sewer facilities
located within the bounds of the public street or municipal utility easement sought to be
vacated; and

3. The signature of each owner due notice who consents to the vacation.

C. Notice. Ifa petition is submitted containing a request to vacate some or all of a public street or
municipal utility easement, the Kearns Council shall hold a public hearing, giving notice of the date,
place, and time of the hearing as follows:

1. At least ten (10) days before the public hearing, the legislative body shall ensure that notice is:
a. Mailed to the record owner of each parcel that is accessed by the public street or municipal

utility easement;
b. Mailed to each affected entity;
c. Posted on or near the public street or municipal utility easement in a manner that is
calculated to alert the public; and
| d. Publish notice on the KearasMetrotewanshisCity of Kearns website and the Utah Public
Notice Website until the public hearing concludes.
OAM2024-00140 Attachment 1 | Page 5 of 5

Attachment 2
Title 19 Miscellaneous Amendments
The following amendments to Kearns Municipal Code Title 19 are proposed. Standards in Title 19 that are
not presented in this document will not be effected by the proposed amendments.
19.04.050 Landscaping Definitions
A. Landscaping terminology used in Title 19 is defined as follows:

1. “Active Recreation Area” means an area that is dedicated to active play where turf grass may be
used as the playing surface. Examples of active recreation areas include sports fields, play areas,
and other similar uses.

2. “Bubbler” means an irrigation head that delivers water to the root zone by “flooding” the planted
area, usually measured in gallons per minute. Bubblers exhibit a trickle, umbrella or short stream
pattern.

3. “Check Valve” means a device used in sprinkler heads or pipe to prevent water from draining out
of the pipe through gravity flow.

4. “Controller” means a device used in irrigation systems to automatically control when and how
long sprinklers or drip systems operate.

5. “Drip Emitter” means drip irrigation fittings that deliver water slowly at the root zone of the plant,
usually measured in gallons per hour.

6. “Grading Plan” means a plan that shows all finish grades, spot elevations, drainage as necessary
and existing and new contours with the developed landscaped area.

7. “Ground Cover” means material planted in such a way as to form a continuous cover over the
ground that can be maintained at a height not more than twelve inches (12”).

8. “Hardscape” means patios, decks and paths. Does not include driveways and sidewalks.

9. “Irrigation Plan” means a plan showing the components of the irrigation system with water meter
size, backflow prevention, precipitation rates, flow rate and operating pressure for each irrigation
circuit, and identification of all irrigation equipment.

10. “Landscape Architect” means a person who holds a professional license to practice landscape
architecture in the State of Utah. Per Utah Code, licensed landscape architects, licensed
architects, licensed land surveyors, and licensed engineers can professionally stamp plans that fall
under the practice of landscape architecture. This includes commercial landscape and irrigation

| plans. Kearas-MetrottewashisThe City of Kearns has the authority to require that only a licensed
landscape architect can stamp plans that fall under the practice of landscape architecture.
OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 1 of 11

19.04.070 Use Definitions
A. Uses identified in Title 19 are defined as follows:

1. “Accessory Equipment” means the portion of the system including equipment sites, transformers,
switchgear, pedestals, terminals, meters, buildings (substations), and other similar equipment
that is normally installed aboveground in accordance with accepted practices of underground
systems.

2. “Accessory Structure” means a detached subordinate building or structure the appropriate use of
which is subordinate and customarily incidental to the primary building or to the main use of the
land and which is located on the same lot or parcel of land with the primary building or use.
Accessory structures include detached garages or carports, garden or storage sheds, and
children's playhouses, but do not involve the conduct of a business.

3. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Attached” means a habitable living unit attached to a primary single-
family dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of thirty
(30) consecutive days or longer. An “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Attached” may include an addition
to the footprint of the primary dwelling.

4. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Detached” means a habitable living unit detached from a primary
single-family dwelling and contained on one lot for the purpose of offering a long-term rental of
thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.

5. “Accessory Dwelling Unit, Internal” means an accessory dwelling unit created:

a. Within a primary dwelling;

b. Within the footprint of the primary dwelling at the time the internal accessory dwelling unit
(IADU) was created; and

c. For the purpose of offering a long-term rental of thirty (30) consecutive days or longer.

6. “Accessory Outside Storage” means the accessory location of any goods, wares, merchandise,
commodities, or any other item outside of a completely enclosed building for a continuous period
longer than twenty-four (24) hours. The area used for outdoor storage shall not constitute more
than fifteen percent (15%) of the lot area. With the exception of retail sales displays in an
approved commercial area, outdoor storage shall be screened from public view by a minimum
six-foot (6') high opaque fence or, when outdoor storage occurs in a front yard, side yard, or any
other location within the public view, a fence or screening of a height and material determined
by the Planning Commission. The presence of hazardous materials, junk, junk cars, or debris not
usually appurtenant to permitted on-site uses is prohibited. “Outdoor storage” as defined herein
does not include construction yards, storage yards, or other storage uses where the storage of
items outside of an enclosed building is a primary characteristic of the use. See “Storage Yard.”

7. “Accessory Use” means a use clearly incidental and subordinate to the existing primary use and
customarily related to the primary use and located on the same lot or in the same building as the
primary use.

8. “Agricultural Building” means a structure that is primarily associated with and supports
agricultural use or activity but shall not be used for human occupancy and complying with the
requirements of Utah Code. To qualify as an agricultural building the structure shall meet all

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 2 of 11

requirements of Utah Code, and be clearly associated with and necessary to support an
agricultural use or activity.

9. “Agricultural Products Processing” means the processing of non-animal agricultural products
including but not limited to the processing, cleaning, sorting, grading, packaging, or milling of
products intended for human or animal consumption or use.

10. “Agricultural Sales” means the retail or wholesale sale of agricultural or horticultural products
grown or raised on site and not produced or purchased from another location for resale. This use
does not include the commercial slaughtering, processing, packaging, or sale of meat, poultry and
dairy, concentrated animal feeding operation, or similar uses.

11. “Agriculture” means the tilling of the soil, the raising and harvesting of crops, horticulture and
gardening, but not including the keeping or raising of domestic animals or fowl, except household
pets, and not including any agricultural industry or business such as fruit-packing plants, fur farms,
animal hospitals or similar uses.

12. “Agritourism” means a commercial enterprise linking agricultural production and/or processing
with tourism in order to attract visitors onto a farm, ranch, or other agricultural business for the
purposes of entertaining and/or educating the visitors and generating income for the farm, ranch,
or business owner. This excludes guest ranches and other forms of overnight accommodation.

13. “Airport/Heliport” means an area used for the landing and takeoff of both fixed-wing aircraft and
helicopters and buildings, structures, or other facilities associated with these activities, including
taxiways, aircraft storage and tie-down areas, hangars, servicing, and passenger and freight
terminals and used by commercial, private, or military aircraft.

14. “Animal Control or Rescue Facility” means a location, with buildings, structures, and holding
facilities necessary to provide temporary housing and food for animals (primarily pets or
companion animals) from abusive homes or homeless situations, rehabilitation (if the animal has
health or behavior problems), or for treatment if the animal requires veterinary care. This may
include publicly licensed facilities to detain and/or dispose of stray dogs, cats, and other animals.

15. “Animal Feeding Operation” means a facility that confines, feeds, and maintains domestic
livestock in either an open or enclosed lot or space for a total of forty-five (45) days or more in
any twelve (12) month period. The area(s) where the livestock are confined does not sustain
crops, vegetation, forage growth, or post-harvest residues in the normal growing season. An AFO
may also be a Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation (“CAFO” see CAFO). An AFO may be subject
to the requirements of the Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (UPDES).

16. “Animal Hospital or Clinic” means facilities for the diagnosis, treatment and hospitalization of
domesticated animals in indoor holding facilities but does not include any outdoor holding or
boarding facilities.

17. “Animal Hospital or Clinic with Outdoor Holding Facilities” means facilities for the diagnosis,
treatment, hospitalization, and boarding of animals (including large animals) that may include
indoor and/or outdoor holding and boarding facilities.

18. “Apiary” means the assembly of one or more colonies of bees at a single location. For regulations
regarding the keeping of bees, see Chapter 19.42 of this Title.

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 3 of 11

19. “Assembly Use” means a business where finished parts are assembled to develop a fina! product.
These uses include computer and electronic assembly, and similar uses, but do not include vehicle
or manufacturing type uses.

20. “Assisted Living Facility” means either (i) a Type | Assisted Living Facility, which is a residential
facility that supports activities of daily living and social care to two or more residents who require
protected living arrangements and are sufficiently mobile to exit the facility without the assistance
of another person; or (ii) a Type Il Assisted Living Facility, which is a residential facility with a
home-like setting that provides an array of coordinated supportive personal and health care
services available twenty-four (24) hours per day to residents who have been assessed under Utah
Department of Health and Human Services rules to need any of these services.

21. “Athletic Clubs” means an indoor establishment that provides for aerobic exercises, weightlifting,
bodybuilding, running, exercise equipment, game courts, swimming facilities, saunas, spas,
showers, and lockers. See “Recreation Facility, Commercial” and “Recreation Facility, Private”.

22. “Bank” means the same as “Financial Institution.”

23. “Bar” means a commercial establishment open to the general public which sells and serves
intoxicating beverages for consumption on the premises, subject to the Utah Alcoholic Beverage
Control Act.

24. “Bed and Breakfast” means dwetlings-a dwelling in which twe42} ormorereomsup to fifteen (15)
guest rooms are rented out by the day, offering overnight lodging to travelers, and where one or
more meals are provided by the host family, the price of which is included in the room rate.

25. “Breweries and Distilleries in association with a Restaurant” means a business which conducts the
retail sale of beer or liquor which is brewed or distilled on the premises in compliance with
applicable state and federal laws. Such establishments may also include restaurants as an
accessory use.

26. “Breweries and Distilleries, Industrial” means an industrial use that brews ales, beers, meads,
and/or similar beverages on site. Industrial breweries and distilleries are engaged predominantly
in manufacturing and do not include a bar or restaurant. Industrial breweries and distilleries may
include incidental retail sales when permitted by the Department of Alcoholic Beverage Services.

27. “Boardinghouse” means a building with not more than five guestrooms, where, for compensation,
meals are provided for at least five but not more than fifteen persons.

28. “Campground” means a public area designated by a public agency for camping, or a private area
licensed by the local governing body for camping. “Campground” also includes any Jot or parcel
of land upon which two or more sites are located, established or maintained for occupancy by
recreational vehicles for a fee as temporary living quarters for recreation or vacation purposes.
This may include accessory facilities such as kitchens, pavilions, playgrounds, or storage for
recreation equipment.

29. “Camping” means the use of any tent, trailer, lean-to, teepee, recreational vehicle, or similar non-
permanent structure or vehicle for temporary living quarters for residential, recreation,
education, or vacation purposes.

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 4 of 11

30. “Canopy” means a roofed structure supported by a building and/or supports extending to the
ground directly underneath the canopy and providing a protective shield for service-station pump
islands and walkways.

31. “Car_and Light Truck Wash” means a facility with machine or hand-operated facilities used
principally for the cleaning, washing, polishing, or waxing of automobiles and light trucks. A car
and truck wash may be able to accommodate more than one vehicle at a time.

32. “Carport” means a private garage not completely enclosed by walls or doors. For the purpose of
this Title, a carport shall be subject to all of the regulations prescribed for a private garage.

33. “Cemetery” means land used or dedicated to the burial of the dead, including crematoriums,
mausoleums, necessary sales, and maintenance facilities.

34. “Check Cashing” means cashing a check for consideration or extending a deferred deposit loan
and shall include any other similar types of businesses licensed by the State pursuant to the Check
Cashing Registration Act. Check cashing does not include the activities of depository institutions
or persons who cash a check ina transaction that is incidental to the retail sale of goods or services
for consideration that does not exceed the greater of one percent of the amount of the check or
three dollars.

35. “Child Care” means the provision, day or night, of supplemental parental care, instruction, and
supervision for a non-related child or children, on a regular basis, and for less than twenty-four
(24) hours a day. The term does not include babysitting services of a casual, non-recurring nature,
or in the child’s own home or cooperative, or reciprocative childcare by a group of parents in their
respective domiciles.

36. “Child Care Center” means a facility, operated by a person qualified and licensed by the State of
Utah, which provides children with daycare and/or preschool instruction as a commercial business
and complying with all applicable state standards and licensing and having regularly scheduled,
ongoing enrollment for direct or indirect compensation that provides childcare for less than
twenty-four (24) hours per day. “Commercial Daycare Facilities” excludes the following:

a. Kindergartens or nursery schools or other daytime programs operated by public or private
elementary or secondary schools or institutions of higher learning;

b. Facilities operated in connection with a fitness center, shopping center, or other activity
where children are cared for temporarily while parents or custodians of the children are
occupied on the premises or are in the immediate vicinity and readily available; or

c. Special activities or programs, including athletics, crafts instruction, and similar activities, are
conducted on a periodic basis by civic, charitable, private, or governmental organizations.

37. “Child Care, Home” means the same as “Home Daycare” and includes the following:

a. “Child Care, Licensed Family” means the provision of childcare for sixteen or fewer children,
including the provider's children who are under the age of thirteen, in the home where the
caregiver resides, in the absence of a child’s parents, for four (4) or more hours but less than
twenty-four (24) hours, on a regularly scheduled, ongoing basis. A “Child Care, Licensed
Family” is subject to licensing by the Utah Department of Health and Human Services.

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 5 of 11

b. “Child Care, Residential” means the provision of childcare for eight or fewer children,
including the provider’s children, who are under the age of thirteen, in the home where the
caregiver resides, in the absence of a child’s parents, for less than twenty-four (24) hours, on
a regularly scheduled, ongoing basis. A “Child Care, Residential” is subject to licensing by the
Utah Department of Health and Human Services.

38. “Church, Synagogue, Mosque, Temple, Cathedral, or Other Religious Buildings” means a building,
with accessory structures and uses, where persons regularly assemble for religious purposes and
related social events and which building, with accessory structures and uses, is maintained and
controlled by a religious body organized to sustain religious ceremonies and purposes.

39. “Club” means a building used, occupied, and operated by an organized association of persons for
social, fraternal, religious, or patriotic purposes, whose activities are confined to the members
and their guests, but shall not include any organization, group, or association, of which the
principal activity is to render a service usually and ordinarily carried on as a business. A club may
also be a bar, subject to the Utah Alcoholic Beverage Control Act.

40. “Commercial Plant Nursery” means a business where young plants or trees are raised for
experimental horticultural purposes, for transplanting, or for sale.

41. “Commercial Recreation” means recreational facilities operated as a business and open to the
general public for a fee, such as golf driving ranges and baseball batting ranges.

42. “Community Garden” means the production of a harvestable product, planted, grown, and
cultivated in the soil by an identifiable group of community members. Includes products grown
and managed by a community or neighborhood organization for local consumption or sale.

43. “Concentrated Animal Feeding Operation” An Animal Feeding Operation (AFO) is a “Concentrated
Animal Feeding Operation” (“CAFO”) if it meets the regulatory definition of CAFO or if it is
designated as a CAFO by the State of Utah. A CAFO is defined in 40 CFR 122.23 Appendix B as “an
animal feeding operation where more than one thousand (1,000) ‘animal units’ (as defined by the
regulation) are confined at the location; or more than three-hundred (300) animal units are
confined at the facility and either one of the following conditions are met: pollutants are
discharged into navigable waters through a man-made ditch, flushing system or other similar
man-made devices; or pollutants are discharged directly into waters of the United States which
originate outside of and pass over, across, or through the facility or otherwise come into direct
contact with the animals confined in the operation.” (“Animal unit”, for the purposes of an AFO
being designated as a CAFO by the State of Utah, means a unit of measurement for any animal
feeding operation calculated as per the Utah Administrative Code (UAC) R317-8-3.5 and used to
determine if an operation meets the definition of a concentrated animal feeding operation). A
CAFO is subject to the requirements of the Utah Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (UPDES).

44, “Contractor’s Office” A facility providing building construction and maintenance, including
carpentry, plumbing, roofing, electrical, air conditioning, and heating, within a fully enclosed
building, and that may include the open storage of associated building materials, equipment, or
vehicles.

45. “Contractor’s Storage Yard” means the same as “Storage Yard”.

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 6 of 11

46. “Corral” means a space, other than a building, less than one acre in area or less than one hundred
feet in width, used for the confinement of animals.

47. “Correctional Facility” means any facility operated by or contracting with the Department of
Corrections to house offenders in either a secure or non-secure setting; which includes any facility
operated by a municipality or a county to house or detain criminal offenders, any juvenile
detention facility, and any building or grounds appurtenant to the facility or lands granted to the
state, municipality, or county for use as a correctional facility.

48. “Court” means an occupied space on a lot, other than a yard, designed to be partially surrounded
by group dwellings.

49. “Crematorium” means a building that contains cremation chambers and a holding facility for
human or pet remains, and which may receive remains from funeral establishments.

50. “Critical Infrastructure Materials” means sand, gravel, or rock aggregate.

51. “Critical Infrastructure Materials Operations” means the extraction, excavation, processing, or
reprocessing of critical infrastructure materials.

52. “Critical Infrastructure Materials Operator” means a natural person, corporation, association,
partnership, receiver, trustee, executor, administrator, guardian, fiduciary, agent, or other
Organization or representative, either public or private, including a successor, assign, affiliate,
subsidiary, and related parent company, that:

a. Owns, controls, or manages a critical infrastructure materials operations; and
b. Has produced commercial quantities of critical infrastructure materials from the critical
infrastructure materials operations.

53. “Dairy” means a commercial establishment for the manufacture or processing of dairy products.

54. “Drive-Thru_and Drive-Up Facilities” means an establishment designed or operated to provide
drive-through or drive-up service to patrons remaining in vehicles. “Drive-Thru and Drive-Up
Facilities” may include other forms of service, such as conventional seating.

55. “Duplex” means the same as “Dwelling, Two Family.”

56. “Dwelling, Manufactured Home” means a transportable factory-built housing unit constructed on
or after June 15, 1976, according to the HUD Code, in one or more sections, that: (a) in the
traveling mode, is eight body feet (8’) or more in width or 40 body feet (40’) or more in length, or
when erected on site, is 400 or more square feet (400+ sq.ft.); and (b) is built on a permanent
chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when
connected to the required utilities, and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and
electrical systems. A manufactured home shall be attached to a permanent foundation in
accordance with plans providing for vertical! loads, uplift, lateral forces, and frost protection in

| compliance with the Kearast4etrotewashissCity of Kearns’s Building Code, as adopted. All
appendages, including carports, garages, storage buildings, additions, or alterations shall be built

| in compliance with the Kearns MetrotownshipssCity of Kearns’s Building Code, as adopted.
OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 7 of 11

19.18.040 Planned Unit Development Mixed Use

A. Ina PUD, vertical mixed-use is allowed in zones that allow both residential and commercial and/or
office uses, provided it meets the following requirements, in addition to the other requirements in
this Chapter. For purposes of this section, vertical mixed-use means commercial or office uses sharing
the same building as residential uses. PUDs in mixed-use zones shall comply with the standards of that
zone.

B. The property is abutting or contiguous to a corridor as defined in the general plan, or major or minor
arterial street.

C. Commercial uses shall only be allowed on the first floor of buildings fronting on the street. Office uses
may only be allowed on the first and second floor of buildings fronting on the street. Entrances to the
first floor of these buildings shall front on the street. Windows shall make up at least fifty percent
(50%) of street-facing facades of these floors. These floors shall have architectural differentiation from
the other floors in the building.

D. Parking is not allowed between the building(s) and the street.

E. thetrent yard setback shall be fiteentest iS} except as previded in Subsection {FE} and the side BA aH seta Ret pe bit aig to \_excestas previded in Subsection ee eee ae
andrearyardsshallbe twenty; feet {20} minimiua—Corner lots are deemed to have two (2) front yards.

&—\The- treat yard setbact-is the -buildtetine Atleast fifty percent 150%) of the front elevatiern-_of the hetreatyard-setba sthebiidtotrae—Attes Hiy-percen 0%}-cf¥+the-frontelevation-ofthe
buildine(s} must be but within_tenfeet 10) of the build-totline or as approved by the Planning PAH be—bui ithinternfee 0’) of the build to-line or as anpreyed he-Planning
building facade-ti ; ,

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 8 of 11

| 19.42.090 Bed And Breakfast ‘aa

A bed and breakfast inn, where allowed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone, is also

subject to the following standards:

A. The structure shall have a residential appearance;

B. The structure shall be limited to a maximum of two (2) stories in height;

C. The structure must-conteta—ahinimin-oftive {5} cuestreenis but set imere than fifteen 15) may
contain no more than fifteen (15) guestrooms.

D. Guests using the accommodations or lodging must pay compensation;

E. A bed and breakfast inn may not provide cooking facilities in any individual guestroom;

F. The access to the site and the on-site parking shall be available for use and maintained, including snow
removal, throughout the entire year; and

G. A bed and breakfast inn located in the C-1, C-2, C-3, and NMU zones may include a restaurant and
conference rooms.

19.42.330 Storage And Salvage Yards

A. Storage yards and salvage yards, when listed as a permitted or conditional use in the applicable zone,
are subject to the following requirements:

1. No portion of the storage area shall be located within three hundred feet (300') of any residential
zone or use lot line.

2. Any outdoor storage area shall be completely enclosed by a fence or wall no less than six feet (6')
in height, constructed of a sturdy, durable material and sufficiently opaque to ensure that the
stored material is not visible from outside the storage area. The fence or wall shall have a
minimum of two (2) non-transparent gates not exceeding forty-eight feet (48') in width providing
access to the storage area for vehicles but may not allow direct view of the storage area from
adjacent properties or streets. Said fence or wall shall be continuously maintained in good
condition and may contain only approved signs.

3. Each salvage or storage yard must include a masonry wall along the entirety of each street
frontage. This wall shall be constructed at the front setback line required for buildings in the
underlying zone. The storage or salvage area may not be closer to the street than the front facade
of the building. The Director may accept a landscaped berm in lieu of the masonry wall if the
height, width, and berm landscaping fully screen the storage or salvage areas. A berm allowed in
lieu of a masonry wall shall include live plant material that covers no less than fifty percent (50%)
of the berm with grasses, bushes, ground cover or tree canopies. Trees and bushes must be at
least twenty five percent (25%) evergreen.

3-4. The surface of the storage or salvage yard shall be covered with an all-weather surface. Any
stormwater or other runoff from the site shall be contained on the site and disposed of through
an_on-site drainage system, in conformance with applicable regulations to enforce the
requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination Systems (NPDES) permit.

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 9 of 11

4.5.Stored materials may not be stacked higher than six feet (6') and shall be stored in a manner so
as not to be visible from adjoining properties or rights-of-way. In no case may salvage or junk be
stored at a height exceeding the height of the storage area fence or wall. Operational vehicles and
motorized equipment are not subject to the height requirement for storage. No inoperable
vehicle or equipment may be stored within the outdoor storage areas. Permitted salvage yards
are the only allowable storage areas for inoperable vehicles or equipment.

5-6. Outdoor storage shall be kept and maintained in a neat and orderly manner. Outdoor storage may
not include dirt, manure, gravel, rocks, sand, bark, or similar materials, unless the items are stored
in bags, on pallets, or on other individually sealed containers.

6.7.A management office shall be provided on site. A caretaker unit may be permitted for security
personnel or on-site operator.

#8.Conditions within the storage area shall be controlled to minimize the hazards of fire and other
threats to health and safety.-Coaditiens-within the sterage area shall be controlled to minimize
the-hazards-oHfire-andotherthreatste-healthandsafeaty, Product, salvage, or other storage shall
be stored in rows with a continuously looping drive aisles with a minimum width of twenty feet
(20').

8-9. Requests for a permit for a salvage yard shall also require submission of a detailed proposal
identifying the predominant type of salvage to be received, the methods of separation and/or
recycling, and ultimate destination of all salvaged, recycled, and waste materials. The applicant
shall submit written materials outlining measures taken to comply with all necessary state,
county, and local laws.

9-10. All batteries shall be removed from any vehicle, and all radiator and fuel tanks shall be
drained prior to the vehicle being placed in the storage yard. Salvaged batteries, oil and other
such substances shall be removed by a licensed disposal company and be stored in a manner
which prevents leakage of battery fluid. No fluids removed from vehicles may be applied as a dust
control method, or otherwise allowed to be discharged upon the ground.

49-11. Vehicle parts may not be stored, loaded, unloaded, or dismantled outside the fence
enclosing the salvage yard.

44:12. In order to protect surrounding areas, business operations, including loading and
unloading operations shall be limited to daylight hours.

OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 10 of 11

19.56.060 Permit Procedures
A. Application. Application for a Floodplain Development Permit shall be presented to the Floodplain

Administrator on forms furnished by him/her and may include, but not be limited to, plans in duplicate

drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of proposed fandscape alterations,

existing and proposed structures, including the placement of manufactured homes, and the location
of the foregoing in relation to areas of special flood hazard. Additionally, the following submittals and
information are required:

1. Plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevations of proposed landscape
alterations;

2. Plans drawn to scale showing the location, dimensions, and elevation of existing and proposed
structures, including the placement of manufactured homes;

3. Location of the foregoing in relation to SFHA’s;

4. Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor (including basement and crawlspace)
of all new and substantially improved structures;

5. Elevation, in relation to mean sea level, to which any nonresidential structure (if applicable) shall
be floodproofed;

6. A certificate from a registered professional engineer that the nonresidential floodproofed
structure (if applicable) shall meet the floodproofing criteria of this chapter and the NFIP
Regulations;

7. Description of the extent to which any watercourse or natural drainage will be altered or relocated
as a result of proposed development;

8. All other information that may reasonably be required by the Floodplain Administrator;

9. Reasonable fees in accordance with the adopted fee schedule; and

| 10. Kearns-Metro-ownshipThe City of Kearns shall become the owner of all Floodplain Development
Permits and shall maintain a record of all such information in accordance with this chapter and

the NFIP Regulations.
OAM2024-00140 Attachment 2 | Page 11 of 11

Meeting Body: City of Kearns
Counen ye Sty (lw Municipal Services
Cy District
Meeting Date: May 20th, 2024
Planner: Kayla Mauldin, Senior SUMMARY
Long Range Planner . ;
On May 20% 2024, planning staff will present
Project Name and File Number: . .
, miscellaneous amendments to Titles 18 and 19 to the
Miscellaneous Amendments to ; . . ; ;
Titles 18 and 19 (OAM2024- Council for consideration. A public hearing on the
00140) amendments was held on May 6", 2024, and the Planning
. Commission gave a recommendation of adoption. Kearns
Project Type: ; . . .
adopted comprehensive revisions to Titles 18 and 19 in
1 Amend Text Ordinance 2023. The minor amendments now being proposed by
Areas Affected: Entirety of the staff are part of an ongoing effort to keep Kearns
City of Kearns Municipal Code user-friendly, responsive to community
Key Findings: needs, and compliant with Utah State Code.
¢ The transition of Kearns The following amendments are being proposed:
from a Metro Township to ; . .
a City necessitates minor 7: All instances of “Kearns Metro Township” within
amendments to ‘Titles 18 and 19 are replaced with “the City of Kearns”.
ordinance language. 2. The definition of “Bed and Breakfast” is updated in
* Additional amendments Sections 19.04.070 and 19.42.090 for consistency
_ to | amp purposes.
ofenance —can'y an 3. New language is added to the specific use
reduce contradictions.
standards for Storage and Salvage Yards (19.42.330) to
Staff Recommendation: require surfaces of storage and salvage yards to be
Planning staff recommends that covered with an all-weather surface
the Council adopt Title 18 and 19 4 a .
miscellaneous amendments, with 4. Setback standards specific to Mixed Use Planned
or without revisions. Unit Developments (PUDs) are removed so that the PUD is
subject to general perimeter setbacks and the right-of-
way setbacks specified in the underlying zoning district.
ATTACHMENTS
The following attachments are included as supplementary
materials to the end of this staff report:
1. Proposed Amendments to City of Kearns Title 18.
2. Proposed Amendments to City of Kearns Title 19.
*The attachments only show portions of Titles 18 and 19 that are
proposed for amendment. The remaining portions of Titles 18 and
79 will not be effected.
Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 1 of 6

BACKGROUND

Purpose of Proposed Amendments:
When comprehensive revisions to Kearns Titles 18 and 19, Subdivision and Zoning Ordinances,
were adopted in 2023, the intent was to:

1. Ensure compliance with State Code and recent legislation;

2. Encourage conformity with the adopted General Plan;

3. Promote ease of use for staff and residents; and

4. Preserve community character.
It is imperative that Kearns continues to periodically update its Municipal Code so that it continues
to meet the above-stated objectives. The miscellaneous amendments proposed to Titles 18 and
19 were identified by staff during the application of Kearns ordinances. These proposed
amendments are minor in nature but contribute to the responsiveness and usability of Kearns
Municipal Code.
Amendment Timeline:
Kearns officially became a City on May 1°. This necessitated revision to ordinance language
referring to "Metro Township”. Needed additional amendments had been identified and recorded
by staff during the past several months. These amendments were introduced for the first time at
the Planning Commission meeting on May 6", 2024. Planning staff's presentation of the proposed
amendments was followed by a public hearing. No input from the public was received. The
Commission has made a recommendation of adoption to the Council. At a special meeting on
May 20", the Council may vote to adopt, adopt with revision, or not adopt the amendments as
drafted.
Methodology:
The proposed amendments to Titles 18 and 19 are minor in nature, and address “Metro Township”
language or issues that staff discovered while applying the Subdivision and Zoning Ordinances.
The full amendment language is available in Attachments 1 and 2, and additional detail is provided
in Table 1 of this report.
State Code Requirements:
State Code Sections 10-9a-501:503 outline the process for amending municipal land use
ordinances. The Planning Commission is responsible for holding a public hearing to consider any
proposed land use ordinance or amendment. The hearing must be noticed consistent with State
Code §10-9a-205. Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission may make a
recommendation to the Council regarding the adoption of the drafted ordinance amendments.
Only the Council (as the legislative body) can make a final decision on the ordinances.

Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 2 of 6

Decision-Making Authority:
The Kearns Council, as the municipality's legislative body, has the final authority to make a
decision regarding the proposed ordinance amendments. However, the Council must first receive
a recommendation from the Planning Commission. On May 6th, the Commission made a motion
to:
Recommend adoption of miscellaneous amendments to Titles 18 and 19 as drafted.
ORDINANCE CONTENT
Proposed Amendments:
Four amendments are proposed in order to improve the clarity, effectiveness, and responsiveness
of Kearns’ Subdivision and Zoning Ordinances. Proposed amendments include:
1. Changing all instances of “Kearns Metro Township” to the “City of Kearns”;
2. Clarifying the definition of “Bed and Breakfast”;
3. Adding standards for all-weather surfacing materials and stormwater capture to “Storage
and Salvage Yards”; and
4. Eliminating separate setback standards for Mixed Use Planned Unit Developments.
The full amended language can be read in Attachment 1 (Title 18 — Subdivision Ordinance) and
Attachment 2 (Title 19 — Zoning Ordinance). Each of the proposed amendments is described in
further detail in Table 1 (on the next page).
Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 3 of 6

Table 1: Staff Recommended Miscellaneous Amendments to Titles 18 and 19.
|Section _—_—_—| Identified Deficiency | Proposed Solution
Titles 18 and 19: Ordinances include a handful of || Change all instances of “Kearns
Subdivision and references to "Metro Township”, a | Metro Township” to “City of
Zoning Ordinances, form of government which no Kearns”.
Entiret longer exists in Utah.
Sections 19.04.070 Staff identified a contradiction Change the definition of Bed and
and 19.42.090: Bed between the definition of “Bed Breakfasts to include up to 15
and Breakfasts and Breakfasts” in Chapter 19.04 | guestrooms (19.04.070). Update
and the specific use standards for | the specific use standards to
Bed and Breakfasts in Chapter indicate the same. Lodging that
19.42. The definition allowed Bed | does not fit the definition of Bed
and Breakfasts to have 2 or more | and Breakfast, including lodging
guestrooms, while the specific with more than 15 guestrooms,
use standards required a Bed and | would fall under the definition of
Breakfast to have between 5 and_ | “Hotel” and be subject to a
15 guestrooms. different set of standards. Staff
elected to preserve the more
restrictive limit on guestrooms
(up to 15) as had been articulated
in the specific use standards).
Section 19.42.330: A standard related to surfacing Copy the language related to all-
Storage and Salvage | and stormwater capture for weather surfaces and stormwater
Yards storage and salvage yards was capture from 19.42.340 and add it
located in Section 19.42.340, but | to standards for 19.42.330. This
not carried over to 19.42.330 change improves clarity for staff
which directly addresses storage | and applicants.
and salvage yards.
Section 19.18.040: Setback provisions in 19.18.040 Eliminate the separate setback
Planned Unit contradicted the standards of standards in 19.18.040. All PUDs
Development Mixed | 19.18.030 and dictated a uniform | would instead be subject to the
Use setback regardless of the context | 15’ perimeter setback and the
of the underlying zoning district. | right-of-way setback specified in
the underlying zoning district.
Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 4 of 6

STAFF ANALYSIS
Compatibility with Existing Plans and Ordinances:
The proposed amendments are minor in nature and do not have a strong tie to the adopted
General Plan. The amendment to the Mixed Use Planned Unit Development standards allows for
the underlying zoning district to determine the project's setbacks. This is important for
maintaining context-sensitive development. Kearns zoning districts were developed based on the
character areas (future land uses) determined in the General Plan.
Consistency with State Code Requirements:
The proposed amendments maintain conformity with State Code; no provisions of State Code
directly address the proposed amendments.
Anticipated Impacts:
The proposed amendments are intended to improve clarity and responsiveness of the Subdivision
and Zoning Ordinances. Table 2 details the expected impact of each amendment.

Table 2: Anticipated Impacts of Proposed Miscellaneous Amendments to Titles 18 and 19.
Titles 18 and 19: Subdivision and Zoning | NA. Amendments reflect the new name of the City of
“Metro Township” language.

Sections 19.04.070 and 19.42.090: Bed | NA. Bed and breakfasts are allowed to have up to

and Breakfasts — definition clarifications. | fifteen (15) guest rooms in existing code. This
amendment removes the requirement for the
minimum number of guest rooms and reduces
contradictions between the two sections addressing

we Seine

currently advertised in Kearns.

Section 19.42.330: Storage and Salvage | Staff currently require Storage and Salvage Yards to

Yards — addition of standards for all- | provide all-weather surfacing and to contain

capture. adding this language into Section 19.42.330, instead
of just referring to 19.42.340, is to improve clarity for
future applicants.

Section 19.18.040: Planned Unit | This amendment eliminates contradictions related to

of conflicting setback standards. Chapter. The proposed changes would require Mixed
Use Planned Unit Developments to conform with the
right-of-way setback inherent in the underlying zone.
The anticipated outcome is more context-sensitive
development.

Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 5 of 6

STAFF RECOMMENDATION
MSD Planning Staff has thoroughly reviewed the drafted amendments to Titles 18 and 19 of
Kearns Municipal Code. Based on their review and analysis, staff finds that the proposed
amendments:
1. Reflect the change of Kearns from a Metro Township to a City;
2. Minimize contradictions and inconsistencies between sections of code;
3. Improve clarity for applicants and planning staff; and
4. Enhance the code’s responsiveness to the unique conditions of the City of Kearns.
Given the above findings, staff recommends the following action:
Adopt Title 18 and 19 miscellaneous amendments, as drafted in Attachments 1 and 2,
with or without revisions as deemed necessary following the public hearing.
NEXT STEPS
At their May 20" meeting, the Council may adopt, adopt with revisions, or not adopt the proposed
amendments to Titles 18 and 19. The amendments represent text amendments ONLY, and do not
include any revision to Kearns’ official zoning maps.
Miscellaneous Amendments to Kearns Titles 18 and 19 / OAM2024-00140 / May 2024 | Page 6 of 6
