ORDINANCE NO.:_\“\- {\p - 02 pate:_ june 24,201}
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP
AN ORDINANCE CREATING CHAPTER 2.56 - COMMUNITY COUNCILS AS A PART
OF THE KEARNS MUNICIPAL CODE FOR THE PURPOSE OF PROMOTING
VOLUNTEER SERVICE AND IMPROVED GOVERNANCE FOR KEARNS

Be it ordained by the Kearns Metro Township Council that Chapter 2.56 —
COMMUNITY COUNCILS, be established in the Kearns Municipal Code as follows:

Chapter 2.56 - COMMUNITY COUNCILS

2.56.010 - Purpose.

The purpose of recognizing community councils is to provide a mechanism by which
residents of the Metro Township may identify community service needs and assist the Metro
Township in facilitating those initiatives. Volunteer community councils are an effective way for
the metro township to maximize on the benefits of volunteer service for providing needed events
and programming to the residents of the metro township.

2.56.020 - Establishment.

Community councils are created by private citizens as private corporations, associations
or otherwise, and are not created by the Metro Township. Privately created community councils
may be recognized by the Metro Township as provided in this chapter.

2.56.050 - Community councils—Representation.

A. The citizens may choose to create a community council for the purpose of serving the
Community and providing volunteer service. All members of community councils shall
serve without compensation. Vacancies on a community council shall be filled in
accordance with the community council's bylaws. All community council meetings shall be
open to the public.

B. All community council bylaws, articles of incorporation, meetings, activities, elections, and
other functions shall abide by the minimum requirements of this chapter or the community
council will not be entitled to the various services, benefits, and status set out herein.

2.56.060 - Community councils—Participation.

The citizens may by choice decline to create a community council under the terms of this
chapter.

2.56.065 - Community council meetings.

| Community councils shall conduct open and public meetings and shall permit interested
persons to attend and participate in those meetings in accordance with applicable council bylaws
and regulations.

2.56.070 - Community councils— Appointment of members.

Members of a community council shall be appointed or elected to the council as
determined by the community council’s bylaws.

2.56.090 - Community councils—Municipal services recommendations.

A. The community council shall be encouraged to develop priorities regarding municipal
services and facilities. These recommendations should be communicated in writing to the
metro township council on an annual basis for use in policy development and in the budget
process. Community councils are encouraged to arrive at such recommendations pursuant to
duly held and well-publicized public meetings.

B. The metro township council may request municipal service providers and encourage elected
officials and appointed board members to provide key personnel on a requested basis as staff
and resource persons to the community council.

2.56.100 - Community councils — Planning and zoning information sent to community councils.

A. The Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District planning and development services
section, or contracted designee, shall submit to the chair and the designated planning and
zoning member of each community council copies of the planning commission public
meeting agendas, applications for changes to the zoning ordinance, general plan
amendments, or conditional use applications pertaining to real property located within metro
township.

B. The staff of the Greater Salt Lake Municipal Services District planning and development
services section, or contracted designee, shall notify the community council on planning and
zoning matters, and the date and time of the planning commission meeting.

2.56.110 - Budget.

A. The metro township council may budget monies annually for the community councils which
will be spent for administrative costs, including, but not limited to, legal notices, elections,
newsletters, computers and software, other office equipment, dues to the association of
community councils together (ACCT), metro township-sponsored community events and
community council outreach activities or events, postage, stationary, and duplication costs.
Funding will be provided pursuant to budgeted amounts and upon direction of the metro
township council.

| B. Community councils receiving funds from the metro township shall establish a fiscal year in

| their bylaws and make written budget requests, if any funding is requested, to the metro
township council by May Ist of each year unless otherwise agreed to by the metro township
council. Within ninety days following the close of the community council's fiscal year, it
shall file a detailed financial statement with an identified metro township designee. The
statement shall set out community council revenues and expenditures for the prior year and
shall be in a form approved by the metro township council.

2.56.120 - Metro Township council participation.

The metro township council shall schedule at least one meeting annually with the
community councils for the purposes of receiving recommendations on policy, budget and other
priorities.

2.56.130 - Volunteer status—Indemnification.

Community council members shall be considered volunteers to the metro township and not
employees, officials or officers of the metro township. Community council members shall be
defended and indemnified by the metro township pursuant to the provisions of the Utah
Governmental Immunity Act in any civil action which may arise within the course and scope of
performance of their duties under this chapter.

APPROVED AND ADOPTED in Kearns, Salt Lake County, Utah this f é day of June,
2017.
By: LTS
Steven A. Perry, Council Chair
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
\
. METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY

Sherrie Swensen
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
VOTING
Councilmember Bush voting at ‘W)
Councilmember Perry voting aad)
Councilmember Peterson voting kK \0)
Councilmember Schaeffer voting KDSari
Councilmember Snow voting AY

(Complete as Applicable)

Ordinance published in newspaper:

Date:

Effective date of ordinance: |

SUMMARY OF
KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP ORDINANCE NO. | \- Oly-07)
On the HA day of Vira , 2017, the Kearns Metro Township Council adopted
Ordinance No. \ FAN Sado an ordinance establishing Chapter 2.56 - COMMUNITY
COUNCILS for the purpose of promoting volunteer service and improved governance for
Kearns.
FOR KEARNS METRO TOWNSHIP:
Seven A. Perry, Chair
ATTEST APPROVED AS TO FORM:
wa.
Sherrie Swensen METRO TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY
Salt Lake County Clerk
Metro Township Clerk/Recorder
VOTING
Councilmember Bush voting Y Z, 5
Councilmember Perry voting H 3
Councilmember Peterson voting NC.
Councilmember Schaeffer voting
Councilmember Snow voting Ves
je
A complete copy of Ordinance No. \FNo-02is available in the office of the Salt Lake County
Clerk, 2001 South State Street, N2-700, Salt Lake City, Utah.
